Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder Financial review and financial information review Mitchells & Butlers has performed well Value-creative disposals despite a more challenging consumer Alternative use and investment Our operational focus environment in the second half of the year.
demand for individual pubs reached remains on driving Earnings per share grew by 21.2% in the record levels during the year and we took year, underpinning the proposed increase the opportunity to dispose of some of our profitable sales growth of 16.3% in the annual ordinary dividend smaller pubs, reinvesting the proceeds and generating strong to 14.25 pence per share, in addition to in high return projects within the estate.
the Special Dividend of 1 per share paid During the year, we raised 162m of cash cash flows.
We will also to shareholders in October 2006. from disposals, including 101m from continue to look at the the sale of 102 smaller, community pubs Strong operating performance to Trust Inns Ltd. best opportunity to Our value and volume strategy, combined release value from our with the unrivalled quality of our pub Releasing additional value from property properties, has been the key to our We conducted during the year a rigorous property to benefit resilient trading performance.
Like-for-like review to determine whether the Companys shareholders.
sales during the year were up 3% and net properties would be valued more highly retail operating margins were broadly if they were separated from the operations Karim Naffah, maintained, despite 8m of additional of the business.
Our market-testing in the Finance Director regulatory costs and 14m of closure spring confirmed that specialist investors and pre-opening costs arising from the would place a substantially higher value conversion of the Acquired Sites to our on our properties than that which was brands and formats.
implied in our stock market valuation.
We examined alternative structures to Investing for high returns access this upside for shareholders and In the year we invested 261m in the concluded that a joint venture would offer estate, including 131m of expansionary the best route to crystallise a substantial capital of which 80m was spent on proportion of the property value, whilst converting the Acquired Sites, delivering protecting the integrity of the existing a sales uplift of approximately 20% against and proven integrated operating model.
the levels at which the sites were acquired.
Following a competitive process, we Our core expansionary investment over negotiated terms with R20 for the sale the last two years has continued to deliver of a 50% stake in a 4.5bn joint venture, incremental pre-tax returns of 20%, whilst comprising the majority of our freehold the business as a whole achieved a post-tax and long leasehold properties.
Shortly cash return on capital employed of 10.8%.
before finalising the agreement, the sudden debt market crisis in July meant that the transaction could not be implemented.
Karim Naffah Finance Director Mitchells & Butlers 17 Annual report and accounts 2007 Financial review Hedging arrangements within an OpCo PropCo structure, our Financial review In the final stage of the planned freehold and long leasehold properties Total revenue for the year was 1,894m, transaction, Mitchells & Butlers and would support a market rent of 280m up 10.1% on last year, including the first R20 separately entered into debt hedging and a rental yield of 5.8%, with an full year of ownership of the Acquired arrangements hedges comprising indicative value of 4.8bn before any Sites purchased from Whitbread PLC in interest rate and inflation swaps intended allowance for purchasers costs.
This July 2006. to be contributed to the joint venture.
valuation covers only the rent from these These were required to support the properties and therefore excludes the Strong like-for-like sales growth continued delivery of the financing package.
The other cash flows received by the operating in the year in both Residential and High turbulence in the debt markets since July company which, based on trading in Street areas, reflecting resilient trading in has led to long-term interest rates falling.
the year ended 29 September 2007, more challenging conditions in the second At the same time, long-term inflation would equate to some 200m of half and further significant market share expectations have risen, whilst the market underlying EBITDA.
liquidity for such instruments has sharply Like-for-like sales Same outlet Uninvested diminished.
These three factors combined Pensions Residential 3.1% 1.5% to produce a post-tax deficit on the After 40m of additional contributions, High Street 3.0% 2.3% hedges of 155m, against the mark-tothere was a pension deficit of 18m at the Total 3.0% 1.7% market values at the balance sheet date.
end of September under IAS19, with more Excludes the Acquired Sites This is not a cash loss to the business, prudent mortality assumptions applied as the hedges have not been closed out following the actuarial valuation exercise With the success of our ongoing sales and and we continue to expect that they in the year.
The formal actuarial valuation marketing activities, same outlet food sales will be utilised in a future property as at 31 March 2007 indicates a larger and drink sales were up 5.1% and 2.2% based refinancing, once debts markets deficit of around 250m, reflecting respectively, with average retail prices have stabilised.
the more conservative gilts basis for up less than 2%, reinforcing our value discounting future liabilities.
In line with position in a market characterised by real Property valuation the new pension regulations, the Company price increases.
Given the continued focus on our is finalising with the Trustees a formal estate, we completed a revaluation of recovery plan to close this deficit by 2017.
Our increased share of the drinks market the properties as at 29 September 2007.
As part of this plan, in addition to ordinary and the increasing scale of our food The revised value of 5.0bn is included annual service contributions, we expect volumes have helped us to mitigate in our financial statements and represents that further contributions of 24m will continuing pressures on the cost of goods a net increase of 1.1bn against the be made in each of the next three years.
purchased, including drinks duty rises historical accounting approach.
Whilst and global food inflation.
Overall gross this accounting valuation is consistent Summary margins were slightly below last year, with the existing structure of the Group, Our operational focus remains on driving reflecting a further shift in the sales mix our property valuers have advised that, profitable sales growth and generating towards the higher growth but lower strong cash flows.
We will also continue margin categories of food and wine.
to look at the best opportunity to release additional value from our property to benefit shareholders.
Karim Naffah Finance Director Pubs and bars Restaurants Financial year 2007 Financial year 2007 1.0% 4.7% 19.2% 1.0% Revenue 968m Same outlet like-for-like sales Revenue 908m Same outlet like-for-like sales 6.7% 3.0% 11.5% 0.1% Operating profit 191m Uninvested like-for-like sales Operating profit 145m Uninvested like-for-like sales Before exceptional items Before exceptional items Excluding the Acquired Sites Excluding the Acquired Sites 18 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review By continuing to improve employee major disposals made last year and at the The Restaurants division successfully productivity, our pub employment ratio beginning of this year, revenue in the core integrated the Acquired Sites and in the estate was maintained at below 24% Pubs & Bars estate was up 3.5%.
completed the majority of the conversions of sales, despite further increases in the during the year as planned.
Growth in National Minimum Wage adding 7m to Pubs & Bars continued to achieve market the rest of the estate slowed during the our labour costs.
As a result the net retail share gains in drink sales, as a result of year primarily as a result of increasing operating margin at 17.9% was broadly in the widening gap between our amenity, economic pressure on mid-market line with last year, despite 14m of one-off product range and value for money and consumers and greater intensity of closure and pre-opening costs incurred that of the competition.
Food sales in competition in pub food.
Management in connection with the conversion of the the year were up 12.5% excluding the focus is on continuing to evolve the offer Acquired Sites.
Acquired Sites driven by growth in the in our brands and formats, combined residential pubs, notably Sizzling Pub Co. with further efficiency and productivity We invested 261m in the year, of and Metro Professionals, as well as by the improvements.
which 8m related to the purchase of the Town Pubs and the central London estate.
Acquired Sites and 80m was invested Restaurants division operating profit of to convert the majority of those sites to The review of machines stakes and prizes 145m before exceptional items was up Mitchells & Butlers brands and formats.
shortly before the beginning of the year 11.5% on last year, including 16m from In the existing estate, 122m was invested raised the maximum stake to 50p and the the Acquired Sites.
The net operating to maintain the high levels of amenity maximum prize to 35.
These changes margin fell from 17.1% last year to 16.0% in the pubs and in the continuing were modestly beneficial to machine sales due to the closure and pre-opening costs development and evolution of our brands although the negative impact of the associated with the conversion of the and formats and 51m was spent on smoking ban introduced in July meant Acquired Sites and the comparatively low expansionary projects.
During the year that machine sales were slightly down margins achieved by those sites prior to six new pubs opened and 65 existing for the year as a whole.
Excluding the Acquired Sites, pubs were converted to one of our brands the Restaurants estate increased operating or formats to uplift their sales and A total of 56 conversions were completed, profit by 4% with a net operating margin profits.
We are continuing to achieve predominantly to residential brands and improvement of 0.2 percentage points.
an incremental, pre-tax return of 20% formats such as Sizzling Pub Co. Ember on the core expansionary projects Inns and the Metro Professionals format.
Standard Commercial Property of the last two years.
Developments Limited SCPD As a result of tight cost control and SCPD generated 18m of revenue and During the year we raised 162m of cash improved employee productivity, Pubs 7m of operating profit in the year, from disposals, including 101m from the & Bars operating profit of 191m before the majority of which related to the sale sale of 102 of our smaller, community pubs exceptional items was up 6.7% in the year of a long-term development property to Trust Inns Ltd. As a result, net capital and the net operating margin increased in Burton-on-Trent, which was completed investment during the year was 99m.
the contribution from the Acquired Sites In addition to the strong retail and the impact of major disposals in the Property backed refinancing and performance, Standard Commercial comparative year, the existing Pubs & Bars related hedging arrangements Property Developments Limited SCPD estate increased operating profit by 11.9%.
Substantial progress was made in the realised a property development profit summer on structuring an attractive of 7m in the year.
As a result, total Restaurants property transaction, with terms largely FY 2007 Growth operating profit before exceptional items concluded with R20 the investment Revenue 908m 19.2% was 343m, up 11% on last year.
vehicle of Robert Tchenguiz based on the Operating profit 145m 11.5% sale of a 50% stake in a 4.5bn property Same outlet like-for-like sales 1.0% Pubs & Bars joint venture comprising approximately FY 2007 Growth Uninvested like-for-like sales 0.1% 1,300 pubs and 240m of rent.
Revenue 968m 1.0% Before exceptional items Excluding the Acquired Sites Operating profit 191m 6.7% In the final stage of the planned Same outlet like-for-like sales 4.7% transaction, the Company and R20 Following the disposal of 15 pubs and Uninvested like-for-like sales 3.0% separately entered into certain interest eight transfers to business franchise, Before exceptional items and inflation hedging arrangements Excluding the Acquired Sites there were 787 managed pubs in the intended to be contributed to the joint Restaurants division at the end of the venture.
However, the sudden, rapid After the disposal of 86 managed pubs, period, including 191 Acquired Sites, deterioration in debt market conditions eight transfers to business franchise and two new individual pubs and one pub in late July meant that a financing one pub transferred to the Restaurants transferred from Pubs & Bars.
There package could not be obtained and division, there were 1,129 managed pubs were on average 768 managed pubs the transaction could not be executed.
in the Pubs & Bars division at the end of trading during the year.
The hedges remain in place as it is the period, including 28 Acquired Sites.
the Boards intention to utilise these There were on average 1,159 managed Revenue was up 19.2%, including 160m financial instruments in a future property pubs trading during the year.
Excluding the based refinancing once debt markets Acquired Sites, there were on average 591 have stabilised.
Revenue was up 1%, including 16m pubs trading during the year and in these from the Acquired Sites transferred to the pub restaurants, revenue grew by 2.7%, division following conversion.
Excluding with food sales up 3.9% and drinks up 0.7%.
those Acquired Sites and adjusting for Mitchells & Butlers 19 Annual report and accounts 2007 Financial review continued Property revaluation An exceptional loss on property related As part of the exercise to revalue assets Given the continued focus on the value items of 23m 17m after tax arose at the year end, management also reviewed of our estate, we have completed a during the year.
This was caused by the Groups deferred tax provision for revaluation of our fixed assets based on an impairment arising from the revaluation unrealised gains under IAS12.
This review updated valuation by our property valuers, of the property portfolio of 45m has resulted in a prior year adjustment Colliers CRE, of our freehold and long 32m after tax partly offset by net which has the effect of increasing the leasehold properties as at 29 September profits on the disposal of properties deferred tax provision in the opening 2007.
For accounting purposes, this of 22m 15m after tax, primarily balance sheet by 76m.
This adjustment valuation represents the aggregate value related to the sale of 102 pubs to has no impact on previously reported of each individual pub, rather than a Trust Inns Ltd on 6 October 2006. profits.
In addition, as a result of the portfolio approach, based primarily on revaluation, the deferred tax balance at 29 the trading cash flows.
The revised value Exceptional costs of 4m 3m after tax September 2007 has increased by 296m.
of the properties at 5.0bn represents were incurred in the first half of the year a net increase of 1.1bn compared with relating to the integration of the Acquired Earnings per share the historical accounting basis.
We will Sites, whilst a further 7m of costs Earnings per share were 35.5p before continue to revalue our properties each 7m after tax were incurred in the exceptional items, 21.2% ahead of year on a rolling basis.
second half of the year, relating primarily last year.
In addition to the growth in to professional advisers fees in relation to operating profit, earnings per share have The accounting valuation of the property the Boards review of a potential property benefited from a 17% reduction in the is consistent with the existing structure refinancing and the proposed joint average number of shares mainly as a of the Group.
However, based on advice venture transaction with R20.
result of the 34 for 41 share consolidation received from Colliers CRE, all of the carried out in October 2006 in conjunction freehold and long leasehold properties The tax impact of the above exceptional with the Special Dividend.
within an OpCo PropCo structure would items is a 74m credit.
In addition, there support a market rent of 280m and a is a further 26m of exceptional deferred The loss per share after exceptional rental yield of 5.8%, with an indicative tax credits giving a total of 100m, items was 2.5p reflecting primarily valuation of 4.8bn for the PropCo, before primarily relating to the change in the the exceptional accounting losses any allowance for purchasers costs, based corporate tax rate from 30% to 28% on the financial hedges entered into on a 35 year, RPI-inflating lease.
This in April 2008. in anticipation of a property refinancing valuation approach relates only to the and the proposed joint venture rent from the freehold and long leasehold Finance costs and revenue transaction with R20.
pubs and therefore excludes the cash flows Finance costs during the year were 153m received by the operating company from before exceptional items, 35m higher Dividends and returns to shareholders these pubs, as well as other company cash than last year.
Finance revenue of 6m The Board is recommending a final flows including those from existing short was achieved on the Groups cash balances dividend for 2007 of 10 pence per share.
Based on the year ended being 3m lower than last year.
The net Together with the interim dividend 29 September 2007, this would equate increase in finance costs of 38m against of 4.25 pence paid on 29 June 2007, to approximately 200m of underlying last year reflects the higher level of debt this gives a total dividend for the year EBITDA.
in the Group following the purchase of of 14.25 pence, up 16.3% on last year.
the Acquired Sites in July 2006 and the Notwithstanding a more challenging Exceptional items payment of a Special Dividend of 486m outlook for the economy and the market Exceptional items are those which are to shareholders in October 2007. environment, the proposed increase in separately identified by virtue of their the ordinary dividend is underpinned by size or incidence so as to allow a better Net finance income from pensions the strong underlying earnings per share understanding of the underlying trading was 11m, 3m higher than last year performance achieved in the year.
The performance of the Group.
Exceptional due to an increase in the expected return Board remains committed to a progressive items are generally those which do on the assets in the pension scheme policy for dividends consistent with the not form part of the core operations compared to the charge for the liabilities.
growth prospects of the Company.
As a result, the Board focuses on pre-exceptional performance The Groups blended net interest rate for Subject to approval at the AGM on measures in order to compare underlying the year was 5.5% including the impact 31 January 2008, the final dividend will be performance year on year.
of the net finance income from pensions.
paid on 4 February 2008 to shareholders on the register on 7 December 2007.
The interest rate and inflation hedging Taxation arrangements that the Company entered The tax charge for the year was Since Mitchells & Butlers listed in into in July 2007 provide an economic 62m before exceptional items.
This April 2003, shareholders have received hedge against the future anticipated cash is an effective rate of 30% of profit more than 1.1bn in cash through Special flows associated with a property based before tax, one percentage point lower Dividends and share buybacks, over refinancing, however they do not qualify than the previous year.
The decrease has and above ordinary dividends paid.
for hedge accounting as defined in IAS39.
been achieved following the resolution This represents more than 70% of the Movements in their fair values are therefore during the second half of the year Companys market capitalisation at recognised directly in the Group income of various outstanding items with the time.
statement, within exceptional finance HM Revenue & Customs.
The total fair value movement of these instruments during the year reported within exceptional finance was 221 m, 155 m after tax.
20 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review Cash flow and net debt Pensions The Groups operations continue to be On an IAS19 basis, the Groups pensions highly cash generative.
Cash flow from schemes showed a deficit of 18m, operations was 447m before exceptional 14m after tax at 29 September 2007 items but after additional pension compared with 99m 67m after tax contributions of 40m.
The reduction in expenditure was 99m including 80m the deficit reflects the benefit of 40m of of expenditure on the Acquired Sites, additional pension contributions paid in 51m of core expansionary capital the year and improved investment returns, investment, 122m of maintenance partially offset by updated assumptions of capital, less disposal proceeds of 162m.
Net interest paid of 145m was 38m The full actuarial review undertaken in the higher than last year reflecting the year is currently being finalised based on increased level of debt in the business.
the value of the schemes as at 31 March Tax paid was 33m, 15m lower than 2007.
The actuarial valuation adopts a the prior year driven primarily by 10m more conservative basis of discounting the of tax rebates received from HM Revenue liabilities than is required by IAS19 and & Customs during the year.
Payments the preliminary result shows a deficit of totalling 52m were made in respect of approximately 250m.
In line with the the final dividend for FY 2006 and the new pensions regulations, the Company interim dividend for FY 2007 in addition is finalising with the Trustees a formal to the Special Dividend of 486m paid recovery plan to close this deficit by 2017. in October 2006.
46m was spent to As part of this plan, in addition to the repurchase shares, whilst 11m was ordinary annual service contributions, received from the exercise of share options.
it is expected that further contributions of 24m will be made in each of the next As a result, there was a net cash outflow three years.
The contribution for the of 399m before exceptional costs of year ending 30 September 2008 will 12m and bond repayments of 39m.
include the payment of 20m previously This compared to a cash outflow before committed at the time of the Special exceptional items of 428m last year.
The level of Net debt at the year end was 2,479m, additional contributions will be subject to 412m higher than last year, representing review during the next actuarial valuation 5.25 times EBITDA.
Share price and market capitalisation Shareholders funds At 28 September 2007 the share price Shareholders funds were 1,576m at the was 611p compared with 590p at the start end of the year including the impact of of the financial year, an increase of 3.6%.
the property revaluation compared with The Company is a member of the FTSE 1,209m at the start of the year which 100 index with a market capitalisation of incorporates the impact of the 76m prior approximately 2.5bn at the year end.
Treasury management The financial risks faced by the Group are identified and managed by a central Treasury department.
The activities of the Treasury function are carried out in accordance with Board approved policies and are subject to regular audit.
The department does not operate as a profit centre.
At 29 September 2007, the Groups net debt of 2,479m consisted of the securitised debt of 2,356m, borrowings on the Groups revolving credit facility of 192m, derivatives hedging balance sheet debt of 45m, other loan notes and finance lease obligations together totalling 3m, offset by a cash balance of 117m.
Mitchells & Butlers 21 Annual report and accounts 2007
