16 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Introduction We communicate with our external Operating and The Operating and Financial Review stakeholders through a number of OFR of National Express Group PLC Financial Review channels: open forums such as Meet describes the main trends and factors the Manager sessions, customer underlying the development, magazines and websites.
Our internal performance and strategy of National stakeholders engage with the business Express Group PLC during the year through a range of channels including ended 31 December 2007, as well conference calls, management as the main trends and factors likely conferences and magazines.
As we to affect our future development, believe in two way communication, performance and position.
we undertake surveys amongst our stakeholders, primarily customers and Throughout the remainder of the Annual employees to gauge their satisfaction Report and Accounts, National Express with our products and the degree of Group PLC is referred to as the their engagement with the business.
Company and the Group, of which it is the ultimate parent company, Resources is referred to as the Group.
The Group has a range of resources that it uses to deliver its objectives Group Strategy and service its stakeholders.
The Groups objective is to generate shareholder value over the longer term, Our Employees The Groups most which we expect to achieve through importance resource is its people.
three core strategies: We believe there is a strong correlation between employee satisfaction and Reorient the Group around a more customer satisfaction, which means customer-driven, branded proposition that our employees are vital to Develop new products and services, achieving the Groups objectives.
and grow organically Our Brand Market surveys consistently Acquire businesses in markets demonstrate that the National Express where we can add value brand is the most recognised brand amongst the UK transport groups.
It is These three strategies have been a Superbrand and has received this explained in more detail in the Chief accolade over a number of years.
The Executives Review on pages 10 to 13, strength of our brand has positioned us together with a review of what has been well to create a masterbrand which we accomplished in 2007. started to roll out across our operations Stakeholder Relationships at the end of 2007.
We believe focusing The Group has a broad range of on one brand will provide greater clarity stakeholders who are key to the for our customers and cost efficiencies achievement of our business objectives.
as well as focus within the business.
Our external stakeholders range from Our Customers Every year, passengers those who award us contracts such make almost a billion journeys with us.
as the Department for Transport, local From this interaction we have databases authorities, transport bodies and school of customer contacts to whom we boards to our passengers who use our believe we could further market our services each day.
In addition there are products.
We believe the Group has numerous other stakeholders such as a significant opportunity to market non government organisations, trade itself, open new sales channels and unions, suppliers and user groups with achieve incremental sales.
whom we have a constant dialogue.
Our Our Reputation The Group has a stakeholders are also internal with around strong reputation as a reliable operator 43,000 employees enabling us to deliver across all its divisions.
This reputation our products and services day in day out.
enables us to bid for contracts safe We engage with our stakeholders at a in the knowledge that we can deliver Group, divisional and local business level.
During 2006 all of our UK businesses Our Expertise Our reputation is participated in this process mapping backed up by first class operator out accurately those stakeholders with knowledge which ensures we deliver whom we need to work to deliver our a safe, reliable and excellent service.
During 2007 we continued We are constantly reviewing ways to develop stakeholder plans to support to improve our performance.
17 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our Contracts Our existing portfolio of Government funding is received buses.
It operates from locations in 27 of contracts, including London Bus in certain franchises in the form of US states and 2 Canadian provinces.
contracts, Trains franchises, North franchise support.
We completed the disposal of Stewart American school bus contracts, and Buses Airport in October 2007, which enables in Spain long distance concessions Our Bus operations provide high our North American Division to be totally and regional and urban contracts, frequency urban bus services in the focused on student transportation.
provides assurance in those divisions West Midlands, London and Dundee.
In this business we earn revenue by over the delivery of shareholder value operating contracts on behalf of in the short and medium term.
In the West Midlands and Dundee school boards to transport children revenue is generated by the sale of tickets Description of the Business from home to school with additional to our passengers.
Fare increases are National Express Group is a leading revenue earned from ad hoc field trip unregulated and we work in partnership transport group with operations in the and vehicle charter activity.
with local authorities to grow the business.
UK, Spain and North America.
On the The North American student market back of the UK Integration process, In London we operate contracts for is highly fragmented.
Local school we now operate three divisions, one Transport for London TfL, which boards operate around 350,000 for each of these geographies.
specify frequencies and performance vehicles in house, with the balance levels.
We do not retain any of the The following sections are intended being operated by private companies.
revenue from ticket sales in London with to provide a description of each of all revenue passing to TfL.
The contracts Spain our businesses as context for the normally last for five years, with two year In Spain we trade under the brand Operational Review which follows.
We are constantly bidding names of Alsa and Continental Auto.
Narrative describing how the Group for new contracts and no one contract The combined business is Spains manages its operations is contained is material to the business.
leading private operator of long distance in the Corporate Governance Report.
and regional coach services and urban The division also operates Midland Trains bus services.
Metro, the light rail service in the West Our Trains business operates a range Midlands, which generates revenue by The coach business operates 28 long of inter-city, commuter, rural and airport the sale of tickets to passengers.
distance coach concessions in Spain passenger train services under franchise and international coach routes across agreements with DfT Rail.
The long distance concessions are awarded following a tender process Our Coach business operates a national are granted on an exclusive basis by managed by DfT Rail, in which integrated network of scheduled coach the national government for each route, applicants are required to prequalify for services under the National Express with an average duration of 15 years.
the main franchise bid process.
This network operates to more In addition, the business operates Following a successful bid, the than 1,000 destinations within the UK 91 regional coach concessions in Spain franchises generally last for a period of including all of the major UK airports.
seven years, with the possibility of short Revenue is primarily generated through In the coach businesses, revenue is term extensions.
ticket sales to passengers with yield principally generated by the sale of management systems used to Our National Express East Anglia tickets to passengers, some of which maximise revenue in off peak periods.
franchise expires in March 2011, are subject to regulated price increases.
The but will be extended to March 2014 majority of vehicles used by the In addition to its coach businesses, if certain performance targets are business are contracted from third the division operates urban networks achieved.
Our National Express East parties who employ the drivers.
in 17 Spanish cities and outside of Coast franchise started in December Spain in Porto and Marrakech and 2007 and ends in 2015.
Our c2c There are a number of smaller seven commuter concessions.
franchise will finish in March 2011 businesses in this division.
Our start-up Urban contracts are awarded by and our Gatwick Express franchise operation National Express Dot2Dot city councils and revenue is principally will finish in June 2008.
The next generates revenue through ticket sales to generated by the operation of these franchise tender process will be for customers travelling from central London contracted services.
the current Southern franchise, which to Heathrow and Gatwick Airports will commence in 2008 with bids respectively.
Eurolines generates revenue Operational review submitted in 2009.
It is our intention through ticket sales to customers Group Results to take part in this bid process.
travelling between the UK and Europe.
The Groups objective is to generate National Express Rail Replacement and shareholder value over the longer term.
Revenue is generated from the Airlinks operate coaching services under In the short term, we monitor the sale of tickets to passengers, with contracts with Train Operating growth in Group profitability to ensure yield management techniques used Companies TOCs and coach services this is being achieved.
The Key to maximise revenue in off peak periods.
Performance Indicators KPIs for Increases in certain ticket prices are profitability are normalised operating regulated, with the increase linked to North America profit, normalised profit before tax RPI.
Other income is generated Our North American Division is the and normalised diluted earnings from areas such as catering second largest operator of private per share, which are calculated services and car park income.
school bus services in the United States as per the notes to the accounts.
In addition a significant amount and Canada, operating over 15,000 18 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Winning Trains new contracts Revenue for the year was 1,472.1 which runs until 2015, will receive an million 2006: 1,497.6 million with investment of 44.0 million.
We have normalised operating profit of 63.3 made an immediate and positive impact million 2006: 49.1 million.
These in terms of customer service such as results were ahead of expectations introducing free wi-fi internet access and reflect strong passenger growth for all customers, not just first class throughout the year.
There were and we are making the 100 day joint excellent contributions from one improvement plan with Network Rail, Railway, recently renamed National a top priority.
We know from experience Express East Anglia, and Midland elsewhere that improving performance Mainline, reflecting the growth that can leads to more passengers travelling be achieved in long distance railways on our services.
Further improvements when performance levels are sustained.
will be introduced including real time This is particularly encouraging given running information accessible by that National Express East Coast joined mobile phone: print at home tickets: the Group in December 2007. a website which will enable total journey booking including parking and onward The reduction in revenue reflects the connections in a single visit: and three franchises that left the Group Smartcard ticketing.
In addition more in November: Central Trains, Midland and faster services are scheduled Mainline and Silverlink.
This also impacts from 2010, with the addition of five the cash outflow from this business more trains to the fleet and a further in 2007 and 2008.
25 services providing 14,000 extra We saw strong passenger growth of seats daily.
We believe that growth has been Another major contributor to our strong driven by a number of factors, including revenue performance has been our performance.
Our franchises lead the focus on yield management and pricing way in the performance league tables strategies.
Our industry leading yield with c2c and Gatwick Express at the management capability at Midland top of the tables.
c2c is the best Mainline enabled us to sell otherwise Revenue performing railway in Britain and this under-utilised capacity and this strategy continued high performance is attracting has enabled us to maximise yield good levels of additional off peak across a wide range of tickets and business.
At NXEA we have improved related services.
We have brought 1, 472.1m punctuality from 87.4% to over 90% all the technology and experience its best year for the franchise to date.
2006: 1,497.6m gathered around the Group to the This has been achieved by NXEC franchise.
implementing joint performance improvement plans with Network Rail As agreed with the Department for Normalised operating profit and managing their delivery.
Transport in April last year, Gatwick Express will leave our portfolio in June During the year we incurred bid costs 2008 prior to the competition for the of 7.5 million 2006: 9.8 million.
Southern franchise, which we will enter, We were delighted to be awarded the 63.3m being announced later in the year.
premier East Coast franchise in August 2006: 49.1m and started running the service on 9 December.
This new franchise, 19 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 New look National Express East Coast and East Anglia now carry our new brand identity.
Improving our performance The extra mile Driving down energy use Punctuality at National Express East Anglia rose Gatwick Express regained its top score of 94% National Express East Anglia introduced an from 87.4% to almost 90% in 2007, making it in the National Passenger Survey the biggest energy efficient driver training programme the best year of the franchise so far.
c2c was independent survey of train travellers views and our c2c trains now use regenerative braking the best performing railway in the UK with a making the rail-air link the countrys most across the entire fleet.
popular train company amongst passengers.
20 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Working in Buses partnership Revenue for the year was 322.3 million Our London operations account for a 2006: 300.8 million and normalised quarter of our overall bus revenues and operating profit was 43.5 million we have been pleased to be awarded 2006: 40.7 million.
Profits have four new contracts during the period increased in our bus division for the by TfL.
In December we introduced five first time since 2001 and margins hybrid fuel vehicles into the Travel have been maintained at 13.5%.
London fleet to operate on the 129 service between North Greenwich and In order to stimulate growth and the Cutty Sark in south east London.
encourage customer loyalty and repeat These vehicles use up to 40% less fuel.
journeys, we did not increase the price In mid February 2008 we received of a number of our travelcard products planning permission for the in 2007.
We achieved 2% passenger redevelopment of the Battersea growth in our deregulated services bus depot in London which will see with increases in both concessionary a doubling of capacity at this site.
Travel Dundee performed well in the We were delighted to sign a ground period.
It was awarded the 2007 breaking voluntary partnership with Scottish Disability and Business Award Centro to deliver improved performance in November for driver training on and customer satisfaction on six key disability and its contribution to routes through Birmingham, Walsall community work with a range of and West Bromwich.
We have set community groups in the city.
ourselves demanding targets and, This award followed Travel Dundee despite only starting the first of the becoming the first UK based urban routes in November, we have already bus company to have 100% low-floor seen year on year passenger growth easyaccess vehicles in 2004. of up to 10% on these routes.
These partnership routes provide more frequent services, improved infrastructure, new or refurbished Revenue vehicles with the latest CCTV systems and improvements to timetables and employee training.
The success has given both the Group and Centro real 322.3m confidence to develop further ambitious partnership schemes.
A new jointly 2006: 300.8m agreed network for Dudley, which covers approximately 40 routes, will be rolled out in April this year and it is Normalised operating profit intended that this will form the basis of a wider partnership scheme.
43.5m 2006: 40.7m 21 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Hybrid technology Keeping costs low Working as one Bringing cutting-edge technology to London Passenger numbers grew by 2% in 2007, Three Premier routes across the West Midlands buses, we introduced five new hybrid buses to helped in part by an increased emphasis on were developed as a result of a partnership with the 129 service in North Greenwich last understanding our consumer.
With high-back, soft leather seats, tinted December.
Using up to 40% less fuel, the buses measures such as freezing the cost of travelcards windows, air-chill systems and the latest digital are four times cleaner than travelling by car and and making student and school travel cards CCTV the new vehicles are part of a plan to help minimise our Companys impact on the available online for the first time.
National Express West Midlands 10% more passengers on key routes and further plans for growth.
22 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review New Coaches opportunities Reaching our goal Our network of coach services now take fans direct to Wembley from around the UK.
Revenue 231.0m 2006: 207.3m Normalised operating profit 23.1m 2006: 23.7m 23 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Revenue for the year was 231.0 million events.
From the start of our association of England as well as providing a wide 2006: 207.3 million with a normalised to the end of 2007 we carried 23,000 range of contract management services operating profit of 23.1 million 2006: people to Wembley and expect that in the bus and coach sector.
As expected for a start figure to grow as we add more routes.
During the year we became the first up business, National Express Dot2Dot We have also developed similar coach company to fit new child friendly incurred losses in 2007 of 4.8 million arrangements with other venues such areas, with child seat belts.
Existing on revenue of 3.1 million.
In the rest of as the Millennium Stadium and coaches were fitted with eight seats our coaches business, we have grown Twickenham.
offering height adjustable seat belts for our top line and increased our margin We believe that coach has a very strong children and isofix fixings for child car through segmentation of our product role to play in Britains future transport seats.
All new coaches will have these and enhanced yield management.
strategy and are encouraged by the facilities provided.
Coaches experienced an excellent increasing support we are receiving The redevelopment and transformation trading year with passenger growth from Government and stakeholders of our main coach hub, Digbeth, in of 3%.
This was achieved by the use around the country.
We are responding Birmingham is well underway.
During of yield management, fare innovations to that support by developing and the second half of the year we and changes in our service offering.
implementing a wide range of innovative completed a seamless move to a new We have increased direct sales within products and services.
In the summer temporary site near Digbeth.
The the business with internet sales we trialled a new commuter service redevelopment is on schedule to be accounting for 35% of all transactions.
operating between Milton Keynes and completed by early 2010.
We believe that greater use of self Canary Wharf in London.
The service, service ticket kiosks, which are now which offers a direct and low cost In November we launched National installed in the majority of our major alternative to rail travel, provides free Express Dot2Dot, a high quality, on coach stations, will continue to reduce wi-fi, seat back tables, electrical plugs, demand, shared ride product, targeted our costs within the business.
Our GPS tracking and leather seats.
primarily at the business to business investment in our retail systems has Customers are texted with up to date market with significant capability for the enabled us to accelerate the roll-out information about their services.
The trial business to consumer market as well.
of yield management across the has gone extremely well and we are It currently has over 70 vehicles within network, with 1 funfares now offered now rolling out this concept to other its fleet.
The start up of operations has on more than 50 popular routes.
destinations where commuter gone well and customer satisfaction flows exist.
ratings are amongst the highest we We are continuing to grow our business have ever seen for any public transport around special events and venues We extended our knowledge of the type service.
where public transport is required and commuter coach market through the travel by private car is discouraged.
acquisition of the Kings Ferry Travel This year we created a unique network Group in November.
Kings Ferry is offering customers direct coach services a well established Kent based coach to Wembley Stadium to enable them operator providing popular commuter to attend both sporting and music travel services in London and the South First Class transfers Commuting by coach Safety on board Connecting central London to Heathrow and 2007 saw our expansion into the commuter National Express coaches now come with childGatwick, Dot2Dot is our new airport transfer coach market, with the launch of a dedicated friendly areas as standard a first for the coach service for London.
At half the price of a taxi, Milton Keynes to Canary Wharf service.
All younger children can be carried in the service offers a cost-effective alternative was followed by the acquisition of the Kings a child seat, and those aged four and above for transferring between hotel and airport.
in a booster seat with comfort fit belt.
24 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Keeping North America them safe Revenue in the division for the year was Our Business Transformation initiative 308.0 million 2006: 283.7 million is focused on changing our business and normalised operating profit was in order to create the highest margin 37.7 million 2006: 39.1 million.
and highest quality school bus business In local currency, revenue was in North America.
By fundamentally US$617.5 million 2006: US$524.0 differentiating ourselves from others million and normalised operating profit and with a focus on quality of service, was US$75.5 million 2006: US$72.3 we aim to compete more effectively, million.
As previously announced, including being uniquely positioned the expiry of a fuel hedge caused to develop conversion opportunities.
an increase in North America fuel Business Transformation is about how costs of $13 million in 2007. to work smarter and more efficiently, how to respond to new competitors Following the successful sale of Stewart and look at creative ways to grow our Airport in October, we are now focused business.
We are also investing in on school bus provision.
Our school bus systems and tools which meet the operations performed well during the demands of our planned growth.
year despite the increasingly competitive During 2008, we will spend $31 million landscape.
Whilst 2006 had seen our and expect net benefits to arise in 2009. best bidding season, 2007 surpassed Full year benefit will commence in 2010. this record with $38 million of new To complement our Business business being won and a retention Transformation we are formalising our rate of more than 95% of contracts.
environmental practices by creating an Following our entry into two new states, industry leading environmental strategy.
Tennessee and South Carolina, the division now operates in 27 states and As with all our businesses, safety is our two Canadian provinces.
During the prime concern and we were delighted period we acquired three small bolt-on to see a further significant improvement operations which were integrated into in preventable accidents in 2007 from the business.
We are currently seeing an already low base.
lower levels of business coming out Revenue to tender, partly because of the cycle of contracts coming up for expiry and also because the competitive landscape is going through a period of change.
308.0m Even so, we are well placed to be 2006: 283.7m successful in the bidding opportunities that arise.
Normalised operating profit 37.7m 2006: 39.1m 25 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Growing up Transforming our business Safety first North America experienced another strong Our Business Transformation initiative will allow Our newly created safety awards assign points bidding season in 2007 with more than us to take advantage of our size whilst being to drivers who exceed safety performance $38 million in new business and a retention flexible enough to offer a quality service that standards.
Designed to promote high standards rate of over 95%.
meets the needs of our customers, ensuring we of driving, the key to success lies in safety compete in an evolving market place.
Extending our reach Following our entry into two new states, we now operate in 27 states and two Canadian provinces.
26 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Leading Spain the way Driving forward 2007 has seen us consolidate our position as the number one private transport operator in Spain.
Revenue 298.0m 2006: 249.3m Normalised operating profit 50.9m 2006: 44.3m 27 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Revenue was 298.0 million 2006: procedures within Continental Auto.
We are also 249.3 million and normalised We are in the process of consolidating reviewing our overall distribution costs operating profit was 50.9 million our maintenance facilities and the fleet and are pleased that 15% of all sales 2006: 44.3 million.
In local currency purchasing process.
for long distance and regional services revenue was 434.9 million 2006: are now via the internet.
During 2007 we negotiated the 365.6 million and normalised profit extension of a number of contracts With over 60% of the Spanish was 74.3 million 2006: 65.0 million.
which now means we do not have transport market represented by bus 2007 results include a three month any concessions expiring before and coach, we believe there are plenty contribution from Continental Auto.
Competition pressures exist of opportunities for growth particularly Trading improved in the second half within the market however and we in the urban bus market.
We also of 2007 and we achieved a full year have responded to the entry of low believe that when future liberalisation margin of 17.1%.
cost airlines and the development of the public transport market in Spain Following the successful acquisition of high speed rail by varying our occurs, we are well positioned to bring of Continental Auto, we reinforced our frequency, adapting our prices and our experience and market presence position as the number one private altering our network to provide to bear.
that this positions us well to access new In addition we secured non regulated market opportunities in Spain as well work outside the formal concessionary as driving a more sales and marketing arrangements which we believe arises orientated agenda in our existing from having the scale of operations businesses.
Continental Auto has and the expertise to deliver on a timely a higher proportion of urban and and consistent basis.
commuter services which balance the long distance services the largest We are developing our product offering part of Alsa.
The integration of in the market.
In October we launched Continental Auto is proceeding to plan, the new Supra class incorporating a both in terms of timing and synergies revised on-board catering offering and delivered, adjusting and optimising wi-fi, being the first transport mode in resources.
We have already fully Spain to incorporate this facility.
In integrated our finance, sales and routing addition we launched a new loyalty card systems and implemented safety Bus Plus which provides benefits to our management and financial control customers, and e-tickets were rolled out Growth through acquisition Business travel Bus Plus Continental Auto was a key acquisition for The launch of the new Supra class provides a In 2007 we launched the customer loyalty the Group in 2007.
Spain is one of the fastest business class of vehicle for travellers in Spain.
card Bus Plus, providing customer benefits, growing European public transport markets Incorporating new high-spec vehicles, on-board and e-tickets were rolled out on long and we are now in a unique position to catering and wi-fi, the coaches are setting the distance routes.
standard for how we develop our UK commuter coach services.
