Operating and financial review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends and factors underlying the Key milestones development, performance and position of the businesses reported in these regulatory 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company accounting statements during the year ended 31 March 2007 as well as those likely to affect 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica their future development, performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses the UK Accounting Standards Board in January 2006, except that in accordance with the of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco requirements of the gas transportation licence under which these regulatory accounting 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group statements are prepared, performance during the year is only discussed for the businesses in 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco aggregate.
2005 Sales of four regional gas distribution networks 2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas Content of Operating and Financial Review 2 About National Grid Gas External market environment 3 Objectives and strategy 7 About the businesses The principal market in which National Grid Gas operates is the natural gas market in the UK.
10 Current and future developments The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different 11 Principal risks and uncertainties suppliers to obtain the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that 14 Key performance indicators gas from gas extractors or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for that gas to be 16 Performance during the year delivered through physical delivery networks.
22 Financial position and financial management 26 Accounting policies These networks, including the ones National Grid Gas operates, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no alternative methods of receiving natural gas.
About National Grid Gas Natural gas delivery Principal operations Natural gas is transported through the gas national transmission system to regional gas National Grid Gas is a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Its principal operations are distribution networks that then deliver that gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain end in regulated gas networks in the UK and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission the provision of gas metering services.
History National Grid Gas is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission system and of four National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
In 2005, following of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
the sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks, we adopted National Grid as a single name for all our principal businesses.
The gas distribution networks in Scotland and southern England are owned by Scotia Gas Networks, in the north of England by Northern Gas Networks, and in Wales and the west of England by Wales & West Utilities.
Other markets in which National Grid Gas operates National Grid Gas also operates in gas related markets in Great Britain which are directly connected to its regulated businesses described above.
National Grid Gas participates in the competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
2 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Although there is now a competitive market for metering services in the UK, National Grid Gas Objectives and strategy does not participate in this competitive market, but is the owner of a legacy portfolio of gas meters comprising the majority of the gas meters in operation in Great Britain.
As the Strategic review competitive market for metering services expands, this portfolio will decline as National Grid Gass meters are replaced.
National Grid has undertaken a thorough and disciplined strategic review of its business which will set the direction of the businesses included in these regulatory accounting statements for the next 5 to 10 years.
In conducting this review, National Grid considered market trends and Regulation As a result of its position in, and importance to, the UK economy, National Grid Gass gas opportunities that exist in the utility sector, National Grid Gass market position, how value is transmission and distribution businesses are subject to UK and European Union laws and derived from its businesses and the views of the capital markets.
National Grid announced its regulations.
conclusions in November 2006 and objectives have been updated accordingly.
National Grid Gass businesses are regulated by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Focus Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity National Grids future is about becoming more focused a clear business model based on the Markets Authority and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of ownership and operation of large scale asset intensive businesses, focusing on its principle revenue that can be earned by regulated businesses, typically covering five-year price control growth markets, including gas infrastructure in the UK.
Integration National Grid Gas has two price controls for its gas transmission operations, one in its role as National Grid Gas aims to run its businesses in a more integrated way organising activities transmission owner and the other as system operator.
For gas distribution operations, it has along lines of business, supported by effective and efficient shared services and information four price controls, one for each of its four regional gas distribution networks.
This involves deploying proven processes, common systems and best practices within each business, supported by common operating principles, and safety and environmental These price controls are based around incentives.
National Grid Gas has a financial incentive to standards.
In this way, National Grid Gas will maximise the competitive advantages that come invest, receiving a return on efficiently incurred capital expenditure through it increasing its from being part of an international organisation.
However, it is critical that this is balanced with regulatory asset base, and it can gain or lose through incentive arrangements for performance the need to provide excellent service to customers and to maintain and build local relationships in managing system operation, internal costs and pass-through costs.
The last price control period for gas transmission operations ended on 31 March 2007.
A new Discipline price control period commenced on 1 April 2007 and is planned to last until 31 March 2012.
The National Grid Gas plans to be more disciplined in the application of best practice.
Increasingly, current price control period for gas distribution operations has been extended until 31 March it will standardise its approach, applying even greater rigour to financial discipline, ensuring that 2008.
The next price control period is expected to last until 31 March 2013. it has the capital to grow, but maintaining the investor confidence that comes from a disciplined National Grid Gass businesses are subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health approach to its balance sheet.
Gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby National Grid Gass organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases Objectives that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
National Grid Gass primary objective is to grow its businesses in order to create value for National Grids shareholders.
It can only create value if it achieves operational excellence and National Grid Gas has securities which are listed on the London Stock Exchange and on the continues to improve its financial performance, it invests for the future and is financially New York Stock Exchange.
As a consequence, it is regulated by the Financial Services disciplined, and it develops, recruits and retains skilled, talented and motivated people.
In each Authority in the UK and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
area, it aims to increase its focus, benefit from improved integration and be disciplined in its approach.
More information about the regulatory environment and on the nature of National Grid Gass price controls, is provided in the section, About the businesses on pages 7 to 9.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 3 As consequence, National Grid Gas has identified specific objectives in the following areas In considering the opportunities there are to grow and develop the businesses included in these which apply to all its businesses: regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has identified a number of risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives.
The most significant risk factors identified relate to: Performance The aim is for operational excellence by operating to the highest standards of changes in laws or regulations: safety, reliability and efficiency.
National Grid Gas aims to continue to improve its breaches in environmental or health and safety law or regulations: financial performance.
network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: Investment achievement of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and delivering National Grid Gas will invest in its existing businesses to generate future growth.
anticipated cost and efficiency savings: It will be financially disciplined in the way it invests and in the way it manages its balance sheet.
regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through to consumers: Talent reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside National Grid Gass control: National Grid Gas aims to maximise the contribution made by its employees by motivating its people to strive for continued improvement, developing their skills fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates and their impact on borrowings and and talents, and by promoting a culture that recognises and respects inclusion derivatives: and diversity.
increases in interest rates: restrictions in borrowings and changes in credit ratings or in tax rates: This strategy is underpinned by National Grid Gass commitments to developing strong and future funding requirements of pension schemes: and valued relationships with its customers, regulators, suppliers and the communities in which it changes in accounting standards.
operates and to acting responsibly, including specific commitments to reducing its environmental impact and to corporate governance and business ethics.
These are described in more detail on pages 11 to 13.
Relationships National Grid Gas aims to improve its relationships with customers, regulators, Shareholder value suppliers and the communities in which it operates by focusing on the areas that By achieving its objectives around performance, growth, talent, relationships and responsibility are important to them, such as the quality of service National Grid Gas provides National Grid Gas aims to deliver sustainable growth to create value for National Grids to customers, the quality of information it provides to regulators, by investing in shareholders.
local communities and by the way it address the concerns of, and interact with, all its stakeholders.
Following are some of the specific objectives National Grid Gas has set itself in these areas in Responsibility National Grid Gas believes operating responsibly is essential to the way it order to support its overall goals and which are relevant to the businesses included in these conducts its operations, invests, develops its people and manages its regulatory accounting statements.
The objectives are set in the context of its strategy of relationships and so responsibility underpins everything it does.
increasing its focus, seeking to benefit from improved integration and being disciplined in its It is committed to taking positive action to reduce its contribution to climate approach.
change and its other impacts on the environment.
National Grid Gas wants to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and it believes in Performance strong business ethics, based around its core values of respect, integrity and National Grid Gass aim is for operational excellence, performing to the highest standards of ownership.
safety, reliability and efficiency and continuing to improve its financial performance: Risk Safety Safety is paramount.
National Grid Gass principal risks relate to the achievement of its objectives and strategy, as it believes that by delivering on these objectives it will achieve its principal objective of delivering National Grid Gass most important goals are: to ensure that members of the growth to drive shareholder value.
The way in which it intends to achieve its objectives is set public are not injured as a direct result of its operations: to deliver a working below and performance during the year against those objectives, by the businesses included in environment where there are zero work-related injuries or illnesses: to reduce these regulatory accounting statements, is set out on pages 16 to 22. gas leaks on its distribution networks: and to improve the health of its employees so they are fit for work every day.
Measures used to monitor performance against the safety objectives include: members of the public injured as a direct result of operations: employee lost time 4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 injury frequency rate: standards of service for responding to gas escapes: Growth kilometres of gas distribution mains replaced: and employee sickness absence Investment and financial discipline are critical to National Grid Gass plans to grow the rate.
businesses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
Reliability National Grid Gass principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK economy.
The reliability of gas infrastructure networks and the delivery of gas to Investment National Grid Gas invests in its existing businesses in order to grow those customers, are, therefore, the next highest priorities after safety.
National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: Measures used to monitor investment include capital expenditure.
investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the operational tools and Generate value from National Grid Gas aims to generate value from investment by improving the techniques necessary to manage its assets and operations to high standards investment operating performance of the gas distribution and metering businesses and by and investing in the renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of selecting investments that will provide the best return.
its people to give them the ability to operate its networks to a high degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of its Measures used to monitor the value generated from investments include return principal objectives, ensuring it is proactive about planning to ensure reliability on investment.
and that it reacts quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
Financial discipline In order to deliver sustainable growth National Grid Gas must be disciplined in the way it manages its balance sheet.
National Grid Gas uses business-specific reliability performance indicators to measure its reliability performance.
This means that cash will be returned to National Grids shareholders to the Efficiency By improving efficiency, National Grid Gas can constrain the cost of its extent that it is not required for the investment objective.
operations borne by customers and improve returns to shareholders.
It reviews its operations continually to identify opportunities to improve the operational Talent productivity of assets and people, and to identify areas in which it can reduce National Grid Gas depends on the talents, skills and motivation of its employees.
It aims to costs or restrict cost increases.
Planning ahead is essential in National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving efficiency.
maximise the contribution made by its employees by developing their skills and talents, by motivating and driving continued improvement and by promoting a culture that recognises and The primary method of measuring improvements in efficiency is through financial respects inclusion and diversity and where all employees share National Grid Gass core values performance as described below.
of respect, integrity and ownership.
In addition to obtaining the views of employees on an Financial If National Grid Gas achieves its objectives, it should be able to deliver continued ongoing basis, employee surveys are periodically carried out to identify areas where the way performance improvements in financial performance.
This will contribute to National Grid National Grid Gas develops and interacts with them can be improved.
delivering on its commitment to growing its dividend by 7% per annum until 31 March 2008.
Motivation and National Grid Gas plans to improve its operational performance and the service it The principal measures used to monitor financial performance are adjusted performance provides to customers by motivating employees to strive for continued operating profit and operating cash flows.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
The aim is for a world-class performance management system, involving integrated common performance processes, a single set of performance criteria, pay linked to leadership qualities as well as operational and financial performance and greater differentiation between levels of performance.
Development of talent Critical to National Grid Gass success is identifying, recruiting and developing and skills talented people and helping management and employees to operate to the best of their abilities.
Inclusion and In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people, National Grid Gas aims to diversity achieve a more inclusive and diverse culture.
A number of priority action areas have been identified to help achieve the vision of developing and operating the business in a way that results in a more inclusive and diverse culture, reflecting the composition of the communities in which National Grid Gas operates, and to National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 5 be seen as an employer of choice across diverse communities.
Performance measures used to monitor this objective of promoting inclusion and diversity include the percentage of female employees and the percentage of black and minority ethnic employees.
Values Community National Grid Gass aim is for all its people to be proud to work for National Grid National Grid Gass role as a good corporate citizen supports its strategic involvement Gas, to share its core values of respect, integrity and ownership.
ambitions, and is delivered through a sustained and consistent approach.
In all community investment, National Grid Gas aims to develop its business, Relationships support its employees, support communities and enhance its reputation.
Its approach is based on two principles: Investment in our Communities, National Grid Gas has a diverse range of external stakeholders including employees, Investment in our People, and continues to be centred on three key themes: customers, regulators, government and local communities.
It strives to be open and energy and environment: education and skills: and community development.
constructive in its dealings with external audiences.
Sharing of best practice across the business and working collaboratively with key Relationships with stakeholders are critical to National Grid Gass future success.
National Grid partners and stakeholders enables National Grid Gas to maximise how Gass strategy involves improving these relationships by focusing on the areas that are communities benefit from its activities.
important to them, such as the quality of service provided to customers, the quality of information provided to regulators and the way it addresses the concerns of, and interacts with, Responsibility all its stakeholders.
National Grid Gas is committed to operating in a responsible way and this underpins its commitments to performance, growth, talent and relationships as discussed above.
Customer service National Grid Gass objective is to impress its customers with the quality of the services provided, with its responsiveness when things go wrong and with its As an asset intensive business, National Grid Gass operations have an impact on the dedication to continued improvement.
The most significant of these for the gas distribution and metering businesses are climate change and historically contaminated land.
National Grid Gas also takes actions to National Grid Gas plans to improve the way it interact with customers by minimise other environmental impacts of its operations, it is committed to strong governance enhancing or replacing the systems used, through providing employees with the and ethical standards and it is committed to protecting human rights.
training, empowerment and support they need to deliver and by improving the quality of communications with customers and internally.
Climate change Climate change is possibly one of the greatest challenges facing society in the Business-specific service quality performance indicators are used to measure 21st Century.
National Grids public position statement on energy delivery and performance in this area.
climate change sets out its approach to delivering energy while playing its role in Regulatory National Grid Gass regulators primary responsibilities are to gas consumers.
minimising any impact its operations may have on the climate.
relationships Hence, the foundation of the relationship with regulators is based on the safety, National Grids target is to reduce its carbon emissions by 60% compared with a reliability and efficiency of National Grid Gass operations and the quality of its verified baseline, ahead of the Governments target of 2050. customer service.
The strategic focus on operational excellence and on customer relationships plays a critical part in improving relationships with The biggest greenhouse gas emission for the businesses covered in these regulators.
regulatory accounting statements is methane leakage from the gas distribution networks.
A major ongoing programme of replacing old cast iron pipes with The other critical element in regulatory relationships is in building trust.
This modern polyethylene pipe is reducing leakage from the distribution system year involves being responsive to the need of regulators for high quality information, on year.
complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way and, most importantly, delivering on promises.
National Grid Gas plans to reduce emissions relating to its own energy use, Suppliers National Grid Gas aims to work in partnership with its suppliers, developing saving at least 5% in energy consumption, and use the resultant cost savings to constructive relationships and working together effectively.
National Grid Gass enable it to procure all of the electricity it uses from renewable sources by the objective is to develop contractual arrangements with suppliers that align their end of 2010. interests with its own, as far as possible, and share financial risks appropriately.
6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 The key performance indicator used to monitor National Grid Gass performance About the businesses in this area is the percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
Historically National Grid Gas has an inherited portfolio of historically contaminated land Businesses contaminated land including former manufactured gas plants and former gas holder stations.
Sites can have a complex mix of contamination dating back over 100 years.
These DN regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and activities of National Grid Gas: The main focus of its remediation programme is on managing the environmental risk and returning land to beneficial use.
Its goal is to return these sites to Regulatory business Description of regulatory business productive public or private use.
Distribution network Provide gas distribution services in four geographic regions: the North West of Protecting the National Grid Gas is committed to continuous improvement in its environmental DN businesses England: the West Midlands: the East of England: and North London environment performance.
Metering business Provides regulated gas metering services throughout Great Britain.
Its objective is to help protect the environment for future generations.
In addition Meter reading Provides meter reading services for third parties and for National Grid Gass DN to aiming to actively reduce its contribution to climate change, National Grid Gas business and NTS businesses.
is committed to: fide-minimis activities Other business activities carried out in association with the DN and metering being efficient in its use of natural resources: businesses which are not subject to direct regulation by Ofgem.
Other activities Other activities carried out in association with the DN and metering businesses keeping waste to a minimum and increasing the economic value of any with the specific consent of Ofgem.
waste produced: acting to prevent environmental incidents: and All of these businesses and activities are undertaken within Great Britain.
improving, where it can, the environmental status of the land on which it operates.
Business drivers The operation of highly complex gas networks means there are many factors that influence the National Grid Gas has implemented environmental management systems financial returns National Grid Gas obtains.
The Directors consider the following to be the main certified to the international standard ISO 14001 in all its businesses to help it deliver improvements in these areas.
business drivers relevant to the businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements: Key performance indicators that are monitored in this area comprise the number Price controls The prices National Grid Gas charges for use of its gas distribution networks are of significant direct environmental incidents and the total value of fines from determined in accordance with regulator-approved price controls.
Corporate The negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact on the revenues National Grid Gas believes strong corporate governance is essential to operating governance responsibly and achieving its goals.
The approach to corporate governance is obtained from operations.
In addition, these arrangements include incentives that permit National Grid Gas Business ethics Not only is National Grid Gas committed to ensuring that all its behaviours are to earn additional revenues based on its performance or penalise it if it does not lawful and that it complies with its policies and licences, it also expects all of its meet agreed performance targets.
employees to live up to the core values of respect, integrity and ownership.
The period of these arrangements is significant to National Grid Gas in that they Human rights National Grids public position statement sets out the commitment to protect provide stability to its operations and allow it to plan ahead and invest in the human rights within National Grid Gass sphere of influence and ensure its own confidence that it will obtain financial returns.
These price controls typically cover operations are a force for good, wherever it operates.
Multi-year Revenues from metering services are determined by contractual arrangements, contractual which are usually long-term and with blue chip customers.
arrangements Safety and National Grid Gass ability to operate safely and reliably is very important to it, its reliability employees, contractors, customers, the public and its regulators.
Its financial performance is affected by its performance in these areas.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 7 Efficiency Seasonality National Grid Gass objective, and that of its regulator, Ofgem, is for it to deliver Revenues from the gas distribution networks are weighted towards the end of the services as efficiently as possible.
This allows National Grid Gas to limit price financial year, as gas demand is typically higher during the winter months.
increases or to reduce prices to its customers and improve its own financial Seasonality does not have a significant impact on other revenues.
performance to the benefit of National Grids shareholders.
With the exception of commodity costs, operating costs are generally not Capital investment Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
Interest rates In National Grid Gass regulated gas networks, the prices it charges include an The costs of financing operations are affected by changes in prevailing interest allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance with its price rates, as some of National Grid Gass debt is at floating rates.
This provides incentives for it to enhance the quality and reach of its exposure to interest rates is hedged with fixed-rate debt and derivative financial networks through capital improvements.
instruments to maintain a proportion of debt at fixed interest rates.
Relationships and National Grid Gass reputation is vitally important to it.
Delivering sustainable responsibility value depends on the trust and confidence of its stakeholders and this can only Distribution Networks be earned by conducting its business in a responsible manner.
National Grid Gas owns four of the eight regional gas distribution networks DNs in the UK, comprising almost half of Great Britains gas distribution system.
National Grid Gass DNs A number of other factors also affect National Grid Gass financial performance, but are less consist of approximately 82,000 miles of distribution pipelines and transport gas on behalf of significant than the principal business drivers above, or are mitigated by the way its operations approximately 34 active gas shippers, from the gas national transmission system to around 11 are structured: million consumers.
Weather and volumes Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through National Grid Gass National Grid Gas also manages the national emergency number 0800 111 999 for all of the distribution networks may result in an increase or decrease in its revenues.
gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in the UK.
During 2006 07 it handled Volumes are affected by weather and consumer demand as well as other factors.
approximately 2.3 million calls to the national emergency number.
The impact of changing volumes may sometimes be offset by changes in costs or may sometimes result in an underor over-recovery against allowable Detailed arrangements for transporting gas are provided through the Uniform Network Code as revenues, with a corresponding increase or decrease in revenue in future approved by Ofgem, which defines the obligations, responsibilities and roles of the industry periods.
National Grid Gas holds a single DN transporter licence, which authorises it to Pass-through costs National Grid Gas is allowed to recover certain costs through charges to operate its four DNs.
However, each DN has its own separate price control, which establishes customers.
The timing of recovery of these costs can vary between financial the prices which can be charged for the services provided by that network.
periods leading to an under or over-recovery within any particular financial period.
The price controls that applied to the DNs up until 31 March 2007, took into account Ofgems Commodity costs National Grid Gas is affected by movements in commodity prices to the extent estimates of operating expenditure, capital expenditure, replacement expenditure and allowed that they affect its own energy requirements, the most significant of which relates rate of return which is currently set at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on regulatory asset value.
to gas purchases required for the operation of the gas distribution networks.
Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, operating costs increase each year as a Ofgem has extended the current five-year gas distribution price control for a further year, result of wage increases and inflation in external costs.
In general, revenues also through an extension price control to cover the year ending 31 March 2008.
The next full price increase each year, although not necessarily at the same rate, depending on control period will now cover the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013.
As at 31 March regulatory or contractual arrangements.
As a consequence, National Grid Gass 2007, the aggregate regulatory asset value for the DNs is estimated at approximately 6.0 ability to control costs and improve efficiency is important to its ability to increase billion.
Each DNs separate regulatory asset value associated with its distribution assets was operating profits.
originally allocated to it using an estimate of the overall gas distribution business regulatory National Grid Gass price controls are linked to retail price inflation, as are a asset value as at 1 April 2002.
The allocation was aimed at minimising unnecessary regional proportion of its borrowings.
Price control formulae specify a maximum allowed revenue for each DN.
Each formula retains a 65% fixed, 35% variable revenue associated with transportation volume changes, a mains replacement incentive mechanism and the pass-through of prescribed rates and gas transporter 8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 licence fees.
In any year, revenue can be more or less than is allowed under the price control fide-minimis activities formula, although it should be set to recover allowed revenue.
Any difference is carried forward fide-minimis activities comprise those activities undertaken by National Grid Gas which do not and charges are adjusted accordingly in future periods.
form part of its DN business, metering business, meter reading business, NTS business or LNG storage business, based on the definitions of those businesses in National Grid Gass two gas Replacement expenditure maintains the safety and the reliability of the network, by replacing transporter licences, and which have not been specifically consented to by Ofgem.
older gas pipes with modern pipes.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected replacement expenditure as recoverable during the year and 50% as recoverable over future years.
Each DN is subject to its fide-minimis activities mainly comprise the provision of contracting type services for other own mains replacement incentive mechanism and retains 33% of any outperformance against companies in the National Grid group of companies and for third parties.
Ofgems annual cost targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears 50% of any overspend if it underperforms.
While the carrying out of fide-minimis activities is not directly regulated by Ofgem, the overall volume of such activities are constrained by two caps set out in National Grid Gass gas Ofgem has established standards of service National Grid Gas is required to meet that apply to transporter licences.
The revenue cap restricts the aggregate revenue that can be earned from DN operations.
These include overall standards of service, for example answering 90% of all fide-minimis activities to no more than 2.5% of the revenue from the regulatory businesses and calls to the national gas emergency number within 30 seconds of the call being connected and the investment cap restricts the aggregate net investment in fide-minimis activities to no more attending 97% of reports of a gas escape or other gas emergency within the required timescale: than 2.5% of National Grid Gass net assets.
connections standards of service that require connections to be provided to consumers to agreed timescales after an unplanned interruption: and guaranteed standards of service for Other activities other transportation services.
Compensation is paid to customers for any failure to meet Other activities comprise those activities undertaken by National Grid Gas which would be guaranteed or connections standards of service.
classed as fide-minimis activities except that Ofgem has given specific consent for these activities to be undertaken.
Such consents are for limited duration, but can be extended or Metering business withdrawn by Ofgem.
The metering business provides gas meters and meter installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas market.
It provides services to an asset base of around 19 Other activities mainly comprise the provision of common services to other companies in the million domestic, industrial and commercial gas meters, situated throughout Great Britain.
National Grid group of companies and the provision of specific services to the four gas distribution networks sold in 2005.
The metering business is regulated by Ofgem as it has a dominant market position in the provision of existing meters to UK gas suppliers.
Although the metering business operates within the parameters set out within National Grid Gass two gas transporter licences and hence is subject to price controls with respect to its meters, the pricing for the majority of meters is specified by long-term contracts with gas suppliers.
These contracts provide gas suppliers with the flexibility to replace National Grid Gass meters whilst reducing the risk of asset stranding.
Meter reading business The meter reading business provides meter reading services for gas suppliers and for the DNs.
The provision of meter reading services for gas suppliers is unregulated, the market being fully competitive, but the provision of services for the DNs is regulated by Ofgem.
The pricing for meter reading services for gas suppliers is determined by medium term contracts.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 9 Current and future developments Environmental remediation In last years DN regulatory accounting statements it was noted that National Grid Gas, together External market developments with the Environment Agency, had sought judicial review to clarify the legal position with regard Market structure and ownership to the remediation of a site in Bawtry, Yorkshire, a former gas site that was not part of the assets that formed part of the gas privatisation in 1986 and therefore had never been owned by There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market since 2005, when National Grid Gas sold four of our regional gas distribution networks to other National Grid Gas.
On 17 May 2006, the High Court found in favour of the Environment Agency.
However, the judgement concluded that the matters raised in the proceedings were of considerable general importance and permission to apply for leave to appeal directly to the House of Lords was granted.
Energy market developments The UK is in a period of changing energy supply patterns, as more reliance is placed on imported gas.
The decline in UK continental shelf gas reserves means there is a continued A hearing before the House of Lords took place on 21 May 2007 and a unanimous judgement in favour of National Grid Gas was received on 27 June 2007.
Therefore, National Grid Gas plc trend toward greater use of imported gas for both consumption and power generation.
as well as its holding and subsidiary companies has no legal liability with respect to the site in As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the UK continental shelf, National Grid Bawtry, nor for other UK gas sites which did not form part of the assets acquired at the time of Gass latest forecast is that the UK will import around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of privatisation.
Regulatory developments During the year ended 31 March 2007, there were no significant changes in the legislative and regulatory framework in the UK.
In January 2007, the European Commission published its final report on its energy sector competition inquiry, concluding that further action is required to improve energy markets in the European Union.
It focused on problems from high levels of market concentration as well as vertical integration of supply, generation and infrastructure leading to a lack of equal access to, and sufficient investment in infrastructure.
The report also called for improvement in the regulatory framework to remove gaps in regulation, address concerns with market concentration and increase transparency in market operations.
Price controls The current price controls for National Grid Gass DNs were extended for one year until 31 March 2008.
National Grid Gas is currently in discussions with Ofgem on the next five year price control for the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013.
Legal and related matters Metering competition investigation In June 2005, Ofgem announced that it was going to investigate certain aspects of the domestic gas metering business under the Competition Act 1998 and information requested as part of this investigation has been provided to Ofgem.
No findings have been issued with respect to this investigation.
However, a supplemental statement of objections was issued by Ofgem in April 2007, to which National Grid Gas responded in early July 2007, since when a representations hearing has been held.
10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Risk factors Principal risks and uncertainties National Grid Gass risk management process has identified the following risk factors which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations Risk management and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of its securities.
Not all of these factors are Understanding and managing risks is integral to the way National Grid Gas is run.
There is a within National Grid Gass control.
In addition, other factors besides those listed below may well established enterprise-wide risk management process that ensures risks are consistently have an adverse effect on National Grid Gas.
Any investment decision regarding National Grid assessed, recorded and reported in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of Gass securities and any forward-looking statements made by it should be considered in the which are primarily used as a management tool.
A secondary and natural output from this light of these risk factors.
process is information that provides assurance to management at all levels and thus helps safeguard National Grid Gass assets and reputation.
It is designed to manage rather than Changes in law or regulation could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass results eliminate material risks to the achievement of strategic and business objectives while also of operations.
recognising that any such process can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance National Grid Gass principal businesses are utilities or networks that are subject to regulation against material misstatement or loss.
This process complies with the Turnbull working party by the Government and other authorities.
Consequently, changes in law or regulation could guidance revised October 2005 and, in addition, contributes towards compliance with adversely affect it.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for example, whether licences or approvals obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as other internal assurance activities.
to operate are granted or are renewed, whether market developments have been satisfactorily implemented and whether there has been any breach of the terms of a licence or approval, the Risk management in National Grid Gas has become further embedded over time and this level of permitted revenues for National Grid Gass businesses and proposed business experience has enabled the identification of a number of key success criteria linked to both the development activities could have an adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows, risk management framework and process that, if in place, will help ensure the process the financial condition of its businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in the continues to remain embedded.
For further information, see the External market environment and Regulation sections of this Operating and Financial Review.
The risk management process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down assessments of operational, financial and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, Breaches of, or changes in, environmental or health and safety laws or regulations could National Grid Gass business units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture key risks expose National Grid Gas to claims for financial compensation and adverse regulatory and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and consequences, as well as damaging National Grid Gass reputation.
discussed by the executive committees for those business units.
The key element in the topAspects of National Grid Gass activities are potentially dangerous, such as the transmission down assessments of the enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and other and distribution of natural gas.
Gas utilities also typically use and generate in their operations senior management at critical stages in the review process.
Their review and debate of bottomhazardous and potentially hazardous products and by-products.
In addition, there may be other up assessments produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by National Grid aspects of National Grid Gass operations which are not currently regarded or proved to have Gas.
In addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Committees of National adverse effects but could become so.
National Grid Gas is subject to laws and regulations Grid plc review National Grids overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of National relating to pollution, the protection of the environment, and how it uses and disposes of Grid plc also reviews the risk management process at least once during each year and reports hazardous substances and waste materials.
It is also subject to laws and regulations governing on this to the Board of National Grid plc.
health and safety matters protecting the public and its employees.
Any breach of these obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to a breach, could adversely affect National During the year National Grid Gas has continued to derive benefits from this process through Grid Gass results of operations and its reputation.
For further information about environmental ongoing interaction with National Grid plcs Internal Audit function and Sarbanes-Oxley teams.
and health and safety matters relating to National Grid Gass businesses, see the Our The external benchmarking exercise of National Grid as a whole has continued with other FTSE Responsibility section of National Grids website at www.
100 companies and public sector organisations to measure the effectiveness of the approach and exchange ideas on best practice.
With the move to a line of business operating model, the opportunity is being taken to restructure risk and compliance management services to ensure approaches are consistent across businesses and continue to provide value to business operations, including major projects.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 11 Network failure or the inability to carry out critical non-network operations may have National Grid Gass reputation may be harmed if consumers of energy suffer a disruption significant adverse impacts on both National Grid Gass financial position and its to their supply even if this disruption is outside its control.
National Grid Gass gas distribution business is responsible for transporting available gas.
National Grid Gas consults with and provides information to regulators, governments and National Grid Gas may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to carry out critical non-network operations.
Operational performance could be adversely affected by a failure to industry participants about future demand and the availability of supply.
However, where there maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or inadequate is insufficient supply, National Grid Gass role is to manage the relevant network safely, which in record keeping.
This could cause National Grid Gas to fail to meet agreed standards of service extreme circumstances may require National Grid Gas to disconnect consumers.
or be in breach of a licence or approval, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming its Fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates could have a significant impact on reputation.
In addition to these risks, National Grid Gas may be affected by other potential National Grid Gass results of operations because of the significant proportion of its events that are largely outside of its control such as the impact of weather or unlawful acts of borrowings, and derivative financial instruments that may potentially be affected by such third parties.
Weather conditions can affect financial performance and severe weather that fluctuations.
causes outages or damages infrastructure will adversely affect operational and potentially National Grid Gass results of operations may be impacted because a significant proportion of business performance.
Terrorist attack, sabotage or other intentional acts may also physically its borrowings and derivative financial instruments are affected by changes in exchange rates damage National Grid Gass businesses or otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and and interest rates.
For further information about this and how this risk is mitigated, see the as a consequence adversely impact the results of operations.
Financial position and financial management section of this Operating and Financial Review.
National Grid Gass results of operations depend on a number of factors relating to The nature and extent of National Grid Gass borrowings means that an increase in business performance including performance against regulatory targets and the delivery interest rates could have an adverse impact on its financial position and business of anticipated cost and efficiency savings.
Earnings maintenance and growth from National Grid Gass regulated gas businesses will be A significant proportion of National Grid Gass borrowings are subject to variable interest rates affected by its ability to meet or better efficiency targets set by or agreed with Ofgem and other which may fluctuate with changes to prevailing interest rates.
Increases in these interest rates regulators.
Earnings from National Grid Gass regulated businesses will be affected by its ability could therefore increase National Grid Gass costs and diminish its profits.
For further to recover incurred expenditure.
Levels of earnings also depend on meeting service quality information about this, see the Financial position and financial management section of this standards set by regulators.
In addition, from time to time, National Grid Gas also publishes Operating and Financial Review.
cost and efficiency savings targets for its businesses.
National Grid Gas is also reorganising operations along lines of business.
To meet these targets and standards, it must continue to National Grid Gass financial position may be adversely affected by a number of factors improve operational performance, service reliability and customer service.
If National Grid Gas including restrictions in borrowing and debt arrangements, changes to credit ratings and does not meet these targets and standards, it is not able to recover incurred expenditure, or it effective tax rates.
does not implement this reorganisation as envisaged, it may not achieve the expected benefits, National Grid Gas is subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to its listed debt its business may be adversely affected and its performance, results of operations and its securities and its bank lending facilities.
It is also subject to restrictions on financing which have reputation may be harmed.
These restrictions may hinder National Grid Gas in servicing the financial requirements of its businesses.
National Grid Gass debt is rated by credit rating Changes to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs may have an adverse effect on agencies and changes to these ratings may affect both its borrowing capacity and the cost of the results of operations.
The effective rate of tax it pays may be influenced by a number of factors Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact National Grid Gass gas distribution including changes in law and accounting standards and National Grid Gass overall approach to businesses.
Current regulatory arrangements in the UK provide the ability to pass-through tax planning, the results of which could increase that rate.
virtually all of the increased costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, if Ofgem were to restrict this ability, it could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass operating results.
12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Future funding requirements of pension schemes could adversely affect National Grid Gass results of operations.
Substantially all of National Grid Gass employees are members of a defined benefit scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of National Grid Gass own financial resources.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for the scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may result in a requirement for additional contributions to the pension scheme.
National Grid Gass legal obligations to the scheme are limited to paying the employers contribution rate set by the trustees of the scheme.
However, circumstances may require that it makes additional contributions.
To the extent that any increases in contributions are not recoverable under National Grid Gass price controls, its results of operations could be adversely affected.
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations by the UK, or international accounting standard setting boards and other relevant bodies could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass reported financial results.
The accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, of replacement expenditure, pension and post retirement benefits, derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts significantly affect the way National Grid Gass financial position and results of operations are reported.
As a body of practice develops for IFRS, the application and interpretation of accounting principles to National Grid Gass circumstances, and to those areas in particular, could result in changes in the financial results and financial position that it reports.
In addition, new standards, rules or interpretations may be issued which could also have significant effects.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 13 Key performance indicators National Grid Gas measures the achievement of objectives through the use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, termed key performance indicators KPIs.
In line with operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Where relevant, KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether principal operating objectives have been achieved.
However, the scale and size of National Grid Gass operations means that many other detailed performance measures are used in addition to KPIs.
KPIs are also used to measure performance against the primary objective of growing the business to create value for National Grids shareholders.
Qualitative assessments are used to judge progress against objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
The majority of KPIs are unchanged from last year, but the table below has been expanded to include business-specific reliability KPIs.
Value KPI Description Target Results Performance Injuries to members of the public Members of the public injured as a direct result of gas Zero 2006 07: 20 1 safety distribution and metering operations 2005 06: 11 Employee lost time injury frequency rate Injuries resulting in employees taking time off work Zero 2006 07: 0.17 per 100,000 hours worked 2005 06: 0.17 Gas safety-related service standards Proportion of uncontrolled gas escapes attended 97% 2006 07: 98.51% within one hour 2005 06: 97.97% Gas distribution mains replacement Kilometres of gas main decommissioned 2006 07: 1,824 km 2006 07: 1,850 km 2005 06: 1,724 km 2005 06: 1,724 km 2 Sickness absence rate Proportion of available work Zero work-related sickness 2006 07: 2.2% days which are lost due to sickness 2005 06: 2.2% Performance Gas distribution network reliability The proportion of total customer days without 99.999% 2006 07: 99.999% reliability unplanned customer interruptions 2005 06: 99.999% 4 Performance Adjusted operating profit Operating profit from continuing operations excluding To increase sufficiently to support 7% growth in 2006 07: 484 million efficiency and exceptional items and remeasurements for the gas National Grids dividend through to March 2008 2005 06: 583 million financial distribution and metering businesses performance Operating cash flows Cash generated from continuing operations of the gas 2006 07: 1,001 million distribution and metering businesses 2005 06: 705 million Growth - investment Capital expenditure Additions to plant and equipment and to intangible There is no numerical target for capital expenditure, as 2006 07: 572 million assets for the gas distribution and metering each investment is different and is considered on its 2005 06: 509 million businesses merits.
5 Growth value from Return on investment Adjusted regulatory profit for gas distribution as a To achieve a minimum return of 5.05% from 1 April 2006 07: 4.4% investment percentage of regulatory asset value 2007 consistent with the return projected by Ofgem for 2005 06: 5.5% the 5-year price control period commencing 1 April 2007.
Talent inclusion Percentage of female employees Proportion of employees who are female There are no specific targets, the aim being to ensure 2006 07: 20.0% and diversity that the best candidates are recruited regardless of 2005 06: 19.4% sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion or belief Percentage of ethnic minority employees Proportion of employees who are black and minority 2006 07: 4.5% ethnic 2005 06: 4.5% 6 Responsibility Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions CO equivalent emissions estimated to be caused by Year on year reduction 2006 07: 0.3% 2 climate change gas distribution operations 14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Value KPI Description Target Results Responsibility Significant direct environmental incidents Own fault and contractor related environmental Zero 2006 07: 1, zero protect the incidents 2005 06: zero, zero environment Total value of fines from environmental Financial amount of fines imposed Zero 2006 07: zero prosecutions 2005 06: zero 1 Injuries comprise fatalities, injuries that require the person to receive hospital treatment and other injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR.
2 The sickness absence rate includes absences resulting from both work-related and non-work related illnesses.
The target relates to work-related illnesses, however, National Grid Gas does not have a measure that excludes non work-related illnesses sufficiently accurately.
3 The KPI for a 30% reduction in controllable costs by 31 March 2007 in for gas distribution business is no longer included as it was achieved by 31 March 2006.
4 Operating profit from continuing operations including exceptional items and remeasurements fell from 556 million in 2005 06 to 475 million in 2006 07.
5 The calculation of adjusted regulatory profit is explained on page 19.
6 The KPI used for measuring reduction in greenhouse gas emissions has been changed from last years measure of greenhouse gas emissions per m revenue to a measure that aligns with National Grids target of a 60% reduction in emissions.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 15 Performance during the year Reliability Over the year, gas distribution and metering achieved all the standards of service set by Ofgem.
In accordance with the requirements of National Grid Gass DN gas transporter licence, the performance of the businesses included within these DN regulatory accounting statements is Efficiency considered in aggregate.
These businesses are the four DNs, the metering business, the meter National Grid Gas has continued to institute measures during the year to improve efficiency, reading business and the associated fide-minimis activities and other activities.
The aggregate of with the implementation of a shared services function to support its gas transmission and gas these businesses is referred to as the gas distribution and metering businesses.
Performance information relating to National Grid Gas as a whole can be found in its Annual Gas distribution performance Report and Accounts 2006 07.
The performance information provided below is that which is Actual gas consumption fell to 303 TWh in 2006 07, compared with 347 TWh in 2005 06, mainly particularly relevant to the gas distribution and metering businesses.
due to very mild weather in 2006 07.
Underlying levels of gas demand, excluding the effects of weather, also fell from 347 TWh in 2005 06 to 331 TWh in 2006 07, thought to be mainly due to Performance the high levels of gas supply prices during 2006 07 affecting usage.
The reduction was Safety particularly noticeable for larger users.
Aspects of safety performance deteriorated in 2006 07 compared with 2005 06, which is disappointing after the significant improvement recorded last year.
The aim in 2007 08 is to Performance under the current distribution network exit incentive scheme and the mains improve safety performance in line with National Grid Gass goal of zero injuries.
replacement incentive scheme was broadly neutral in 2006 07.
Public safety Financial performance 20 members of the public were injured as a result of gas distribution and metering operations Gas distribution and metering operating profit from continuing operations, before exceptional compared with 11 during 2005 06. items and remeasurements, fell from 583 million in 2005 06 to 484 million in 2006 07.
Operating profit from continuing operations fell from 556 million in 2005 06 to 475 million in Targets for safety-related standards set by Ofgem were again exceeded with more than 98% of 2006 07. uncontrolled gas escapes where the gas leak cannot be controlled by turning the gas supply off at the meter attended within one hour and more than 99% of controlled gas escapes Profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items and remeasurements fell where the gas leak can be controlled at the meter attended within two hours.
Profit for the year from continuing operations fell from 350 million in 2005 06 to 130 million in 2006 07.
The DNs decommissioned approximately 1,850 km of gas pipes in 2006 07, exceeding the HSE target this year, compared with 1,724 km in 2005 06.
Cash flows generated by continuing operations increased from 705 million in 2005 06 to 1,001 million in 2006 07.
Employee safety During 2006 07, 24 of gas distribution and metering employees received injuries that resulted in More information on financial performance is contained under financial results on pages 19 to 22. them taking time off work, compared with 25 in 2005 06.
Employee lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked was 0.17 in both years.
Contractor safety There was a reduction in contractor lost time injuries from 26 in 2005 06 to 14 in 2006 07.
Employee health Around 2.2% of available work days were lost due to sickness absence in 2006 07, the same as the previous year.
This equates to 5.8 days of sickness per employee per year.
The UK Confederation of British Industrys 2007 sickness absence survey reported that average annual sickness for UK company employees was 7.0 days.
16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 The following table shows how return on investment has been calculated: Growth Years ended 31 March Capital investment 2007 2006 Capital investment for the gas distribution and metering businesses continues to increase as m m 1 increasing demand for gas and the renewal of gas distribution networks require increased DNs adjusted operating profit 480 375 investment in infrastructure and 572 million was invested in the form of capital investment 2 Adjustment of operating costs onto a price control basis 17 2 during 2006 07, compared with 509 million in 2005 06.
3 Investment adjustment 117 104 Excess of regulatory value depreciation over accounting depreciation and 60 69 2007 2006 amortisation m m Regulatory operating profit 215 305 Reinforcement and extension of gas distribution networks 156 149 4 Notional current taxation on a price control basis 3 37 Replacement expenditure 333 295 Regulatory return 252 308 Metering 83 65 5 Estimated average regulatory value 5,766 5,600 Capital investment 572 509 Return on investment regulatory return as a percentage of regulatory value 4.4% 5.5% Reinforcement and extension expenditure increased from 149 million in 2005 06 to 156 1 Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
2 Adjustments to operating costs primarily comprise movements in provisions which are recognised on an expenditure basis for price million in 2006 07 reflecting continued investment in the reinforcement of high pressure control purposes.
pipelines, together with higher information technology expenditure to replace obsolete 3 The investment adjustment is in respect of the 50% of replacement expenditure which is treated as an operating cost for price control equipment in system control, operational and support activities.
purposes, but as capital investment for accounting purposes.
4 Notional current taxation is an allocation of the actual current tax for the year, excluding prior year items and adjusted for the effect of actual interest payments being less than would result from the gearing level assumed by Ofgem when setting the price control.
Replacement expenditure increased from 295 million in 2005 06 to 333 million in 2006 07 in 5 Regulatory values have been restated from previous estimates to reflect the outcome of the extension price control review for the year to 31 March 2008 and are average values for each year.
line with the planned increase in the long-term iron mains replacement programme agreed with the HSE.
During the second year of the alliance partnerships for the DNs, approximately 1,850 kilometres of gas mains have been laid, with an increasing proportion of the workload Talent comprising complex replacement of large diameter mains.
Development of talent Development and recruitment of employees is undertaken on an integrated basis for all In addition to providing meters for new gas connections and replacing older meters, the National Grids UK businesses, including the gas distribution and metering businesses.
metering business is investing in technology such as smart metering and automated meter reading systems in response to customer requirements.
Metering capital expenditure in National Grid Gas continues to invest in the recruitment and development of skilled employees 2006 07 amounted to 83 million, an increase of 18 million compared with 65 million in for the future and, in the past year, National Grid recruited 160 trainees onto the apprentice, 2005 06. foundation engineer, graduate and student programmes in which the gas distribution and metering businesses participate.
National Grids UK Foundation Engineering Programme, Generating value from investments launched in early 2006, is designed to facilitate the entrance, training and progression of This year, a return on investment measure is reported for the first time, the purpose of which is talented people into key engineering roles.
In conjunction with Aston University and Energy to allow National Grid Gas to monitor how it is performing in generating value from its Utility Skills, the industry sector skills council in the UK, National Grid has also designed an businesses and from the investments it makes.
Return on investment has been calculated industry specific foundation degree.
using the measure developed by Ofgem when setting transmission price controls for the 5 year period commencing 1 April 2007.
If the DNs perform in accordance with Ofgems projections, Inclusion and diversity then they would earn an average annual return of 5.05% using Ofgems measure.
For 2006 07, Several employee interest networks have been established in National Grid, focusing on the DNs return on investment using this measure is 4.4%, compared with 5.5% in 2005 06.
The gender, ethnicity and faith and disability.
The networks provide a mutually beneficial relationship return in 2006 07 is lower than Ofgems projected return of 5.05%, as due to the reduction in the for our employees by providing opportunities for employees to network with each other and DN business adjusted operating profit which is discussed on page 20. senior management, to attain career building skills and to provide a better understanding of National Grids businesses.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 17 Working groups have been established with senior executive sponsors focusing on recruitment The vast majority of emissions relating to the gas distribution and metering businesses fall and employee development, employee engagement, communications and measuring the within Scope 1 of the World Resources Institute greenhouse gas protocol initiative.
This impact of inclusion and diversity policies.
National Grid has also initiated a field force pilot comprises direct emissions such as methane leaking from the gas distribution networks.
Scope programme in the UK to explore the development of inclusion and diversity best practices 2 emissions comprise indirect emissions, such as those resulting from purchased electricity.
examples that can be replicated across operational sites.
Emissions made by National Grid Gas cannot all be attributed to specific businesses, but during At 31 March 2007, 20% of employees were female and 4.5% were from black and ethnic 2006 07, Scope 1 emissions for methane leakage from gas distribution networks amounted to minority groups compared with 19.4% and 4.5% respectively at 31 March 2006. some 2,317 million tonnes CO equivalent, a 0.3% reduction compared with emissions of 2,325 2 million tonnes in 2005 06.
During the year, the DNs replaced approximately 1,850 kilometres of old cast iron pipes, the largest source of these emissions.
Relationships Customer service Information on the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions made by National Grid Gas can be The DNs achieved all the connections standards of service over the year, along with all other found in its Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07. standards of service set by Ofgem that relate to DN gas transportation services.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, around 40,000 new connections were made to the DN networks Historically contaminated land 2005 06: 50,000.
The proportion of service interruptions which were planned as against Land contamination issues in respect of sites currently owned by the DNs and previously used unplanned was 98.92% in 2006 07 compared with a target of 95%, while the proportion of for gas production are managed by National Grid Properties.
customer complaints responded to within five working days was 94.71% in 2006 07 compared with a target of 90%.
Protecting the environment All employees work to certified ISO 14001 environmental management systems.
Regulatory relationships The DNs continue to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of the gas distribution There was one significant environmental incident in 2006 07 arising directly from distribution networks and in expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand.
In addition, and metering business operations, compared with none in 2005 06.
There were no National Grid Gas seeks to maintain a professional approach with Ofgem in areas where there prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from this incident.
is disagreement, in particular with respect to Ofgems investigation into metering services as discussed on page 10. Business ethics In March 2007, National Grid published its Standards of Ethical Business Conduct, replacing its Suppliers UK Code of Business Conduct.
The new Standard provides a common set of practical Progress continues to be made in improving the quality of relationships with suppliers.
A guidelines to ensure behaviours are lawful, policies and licences are complied with, and the particular focus has been on the investment programmes in gas distribution operations, where values set out in National Grids Framework for Responsible Business and its core values of alliances have been created with a number of suppliers.
Under these alliances, the suppliers respect, integrity and ownership are followed.
and DNs work in combined teams to deliver construction projects and share in the financial risk associated with these projects.
Community investment Community investment takes place on a company basis and further information can be found in the National Grid Gas Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07.
Responsibility Climate change National Grid as a whole has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 60% against a verified baseline, in advance of the target date of 2050 set by the UK Government.
18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for monitoring financial performance Financial results and in communicating financial performance to investors in external presentations and Financial results and position are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, budgets and forecasts are Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union.
primarily prepared on the basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
The financial results of the gas distribution and metering businesses are presented within Management compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures continuing operations.
through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a component of overall financial performance.
Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures In considering the financial performance of regulatory businesses, each primary financial Operating financial performance measure of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year is analysed into two Years ended 31 March components, comprising firstly business performance which excludes exceptional items and 2007 2006 remeasurements and secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and m m remeasurements are excluded from the measures of business performance used by Revenue 1,470 1,497 management to monitor financial performance, as they are considered to distort the 986 Operating costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 914 comparability of reported financial performance from year to year.
Adjusted operating profit 484 583 9 Measures of business performance are referred to in these regulatory accounting statements as Exceptional items 27 adjusted profit measures in order to clearly distinguish them from the comparable total profit Total operating profit 475 556 measures of which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings differ from total operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year Revenue, operating costs and operating profit respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and remeasurements.
The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and operating profit by can be summarised as follows by regulatory business: Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Revenue Operating costs Operating profit either by their nature or their size, and are relevant to an understanding of our financial m m m performance.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation 2005 06 results 1,497 941 556 as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or Add back 2005 06 exceptional items - 27 27 impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains or 2005 06 adjusted results 1,497 914 583 losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses North West DN 1 18 17 recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial East of England DN 7 27 20 instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial West Midlands DN 2 14 16 indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
North London DN 36 16 52 Metering 24 6 Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total Meter reading 2 4 2 profit measures, as they exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, fide-minimis activities 2 2 - namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Management believes that in separately Other activities 8 10 2 presenting financial performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding Inter-business 5 5 - the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items and 2006 07 adjusted results 1,470 986 484 remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The 2006 07 exceptional items - 9 9 presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a 2006 07 results 1,470 995 475 substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 19 The principal factors causing the movements between 2005 06 and 2006 07 are summarised below: Operating profit was 81 million lower in 2006 07 than 2005 06 due to the 27 million reduction Revenue Operating costs Operating profit in revenue, the 72 million increase in operating costs and the 18 million reduction in m m m exceptional charges.
2005 06 results 1,497 941 556 Profit for the year from continuing operations Add back 2005 06 exceptional items - 27 27 Net finance costs and taxation largely comprise amounts relating to National Grid Gas as a 2005 06 adjusted results 1,497 914 583 whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory Transportation price changes 73 - 73 accounting statements on page 38.
Weather and transportation volumes 69 - 69 Timing of recoveries 32 - 32 Adjusted profit for the year DN depreciation and amortisation - 12 12 Years ended 31 March DN business rates - 23 23 2007 2006 Transfer of employee liabilities - 17 17 m m Other 1 20 19 Adjusted operating profit 484 583 2006 07 adjusted results 1,470 986 484 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 188 116 2006 07 exceptional items - 9 9 Adjusted profit before taxation 296 467 2006 07 results 1,470 995 475 Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 142 91 Adjusted profit from continuing operations 154 376 Revenue for gas distribution and metering fell by 27 million in 2006 07 compared to 2005 06.
Profit for the year DN formula income was up by 4 million, with the benefit of an average price increase of 8.8% Years ended 31 March implemented on 1 October 2006 giving rise to a 73 million increase in revenue.
This was 2007 2006 largely offset by delivery volumes being significantly lower than the prior year, reducing revenue m m by 69 million.
Total operating profit 475 556 Net finance costs 208 126 The weather in 2006 07 was significantly warmer than 2005 06 lowering consumption by 28 TWh, which, combined with the impact of underlying volumes being lower by 16 TWh caused Profit before taxation 267 430 principally by the continuing effect of high wholesale gas prices, led to an under-recovery of Taxation 137 80 income of 42 million in 2006 07.
Together with a 10 million under-recovery in 2005 06, this Profit from continuing operations 130 350 resulted in a net year-on-year timing impact on the recovery of income of 32 million.
Net finance costs Operating costs were 72 million higher in 2006 07 compared to 2005 06.
Depreciation and Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, as allocated to the gas amortisation costs for the DNs were 12 million higher, reflecting the increased capital distribution and metering businesses, increased by 72 million from 2005 06 to 2006 07.
This investment in the gas distribution networks.
There was a 23 million increase in business rates was primarily explained by an increase in average debt balances.
following the changes in rateable values introduced from 1 April 2005.
The remaining increase in operating costs of 20 million was mainly driven by workload, including significant investment Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements in maintenance and other safety-related activities in the DNs.
Exceptional finance costs allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses of 23 million in 2006 07 relate to the early repayment of debt.
There were no exceptional finance Adjusted operating profit was 99 million lower in 2006 07 than 2005 06. costs allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses in 2005 06.
The exceptional charge of 9 million in 2006 07 related to the costs associated with the creation Financial remeasurements relate to allocated net gains on derivative financial instruments of 3 of the new shared services organisation.
The exceptional charge in 2005 06 of 27 million million, compared with allocated net losses of 10 million in 2005 06. related to DN restructuring costs under the Way Ahead programme.
20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 b Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation Taxation Years ended 31 March A net charge of 137 million was allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses in 2007 2006 2006 07, compared with 80 million in 2005 06.
This includes allocated net tax credits in m m respect of exceptional items and remeasurements amounting to 5 million and 11 million in Adjusted profit before taxation 296 467 2006 07 and 2005 06 respectively.
The effective tax rate was 51% for 2006 07 and 19% for 9 Exceptional operating items 27 2005 06.
Exceptional finance costs 23 - Financial remeasurements 3 10 Excluding the effect of net tax credits on exceptional items and remeasurements, the effective Total profit before taxation 267 430 tax rate for 2006 07 and 2005 06 was 48% and 19% respectively, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% for both years.
These effective tax rates reflected an allocated prior Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the Income Statement, under the year tax charge in 2006 07 equivalent to an effective tax rate of 16% and an allocated prior year heading Profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
tax credit in 2005 06 equivalent to 5%.
These prior year items arose from the settlement of outstanding prior year tax issues.
c Reconciliation of adjusted profit for the year to profit for the year Years ended 31 March A reconciliation of the main components giving rise to the difference between the relevant 2007 2006 effective tax rate and the UK standard corporation tax rate is shown in note 10 to the regulatory m m accounting statements.
Adjusted profit for the year 154 376 Exceptional operating items 9 27 Profit for the year Exceptional finance costs 23 - The gas distribution and metering business profit for the year fell from 350 million in 2005 06 to 130 million in 2006 07 as a consequence of the above changes.
Financial remeasurements 3 10 Tax on exceptional items and remeasurements 5 11 Adjusted profit measures Profit for the year 130 350 The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
Adjusted profit for the year is presented on the face of the Income Statement, under the heading Profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items and a Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating profit remeasurements.
Years ended 31 March 2007 2006 Cash flows m m Cash flows from operating activities Adjusted operating profit 484 583 Cash generated from operations for the gas distribution and metering businesses was 1,001 Exceptional operating items 9 27 million in 2006 07 compared with 705 million in 2005 06.
This included cash outflows relating Total operating profit 475 556 to exceptional items of 25 million and 76 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows relating to tax paid, net cash inflow from operating activities was 1,011 million, compared with Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of then Income Statement, under the heading 635 million in 2005 06.
Operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
In 2006 07, there was a net corporate tax repayment of 10 million allocated to gas distribution and metering compared with an allocated payment of 70 million in 2005 06.
Cash inflows from investing activities Cash outflows from investing activities for gas distribution and metering fell from 3,307 million in 2005 06 to 820 million in 2006 07.
This was fall was primarily a result of an interest free loan National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 21 in 2005 06 to National Grid Gass immediate parent company, National Grid Gas Holdings plc, Financial position and financial of which 2,771 million was allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses.
This loan represented part of the 5,750 million cash received by National Grid Gas from the sales of four management of four gas networks in June 2005.
Cash outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, net of disposal proceeds, increased to 602 million in 2006 07 from Going concern 513 million in 2005 06, as a result of the increase in capital investment.
Allocated cash Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that National Grid Gas has adequate resources outflows to acquire financial investments increased from 23 million in 2005 06 to 218 million to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt in 2006 07. the going concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting statements.
Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities largely comprise cash flows of National Grid Gas as a Capital structure whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory Balance sheet accounting statements on page 38.
The balance sheet of the gas distribution and metering businesses at 31 March 2007 can be summarised as follows: Net cash related to financing activities changed from an inflow of 2,827 million in 2005 06 to an outflow of 238 million in 2006 07.
The position in 2006 07 reflects allocated payments to Assets Liabilities Net assets providers of finance, in the form of net interest and dividends, of 1,476 million and allocated m m m inflows from additional net borrowings of 1,238 million.
The cash inflow in 2005 06 arose from Property, plant and equipment and non-current a net increase in allocated borrowings and derivatives of 3,164 million less allocated payments intangible assets 6,030 - 6,030 to providers of finance of 337 million.
Other non-current assets and liabilities 4,025 922 3,103 Current assets and liabilities 220 588 368 Allocated net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt redemption costs, increased Deferred tax - 1,190 1,190 from 134 million in 2005 06 to 207 million in 2006 07, due to higher average net debt.
Total before net debt 10,275 2,700 7,575 Allocated exceptional debt redemption costs from restructuring the debt portfolio were 23 Net debt 417 3,769 3,352 million in 2006 07 compared with none in 2005 06.
Total as at 31 March 2007 10,692 6,469 4,223 Total as at 31 March 2006 10,461 5,188 5,273 Dividends Dividends in respect of the financial year The reduction in net assets from 5,273 million at 31 March 2006 to 4,223 million at 31 March The following table shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by National Grid Gas in 2007 resulted from attributed dividends paid of 1,246 million partly offset by the profit for the respect of the last two financial years and which have been allocated to the gas distribution and year of 130 million, changes in allocation of funding between National Grid Gass regulatory metering businesses as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting businesses of 49 million, net income recognised directly in equity of 8 million and other statements on page 38.
These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect changes in equity of 9 million.
2007 2006 Net debt and gearing m m Allocated net debt increased by 1.1 billion from 2.3 billion at 31 March 2006 to 3.4 billion at Interim 171 203 31 March 2007, as a result of an increase in allocated borrowings of 1.1 billion.
Final - 1,075 Total 171 1,278 The composition of net debt at 31 March 2007 is shown in note 27 to the regulatory accounting statements.
In accordance with IFRS, dividends are reported in the financial statements for the year in which they are approved.
As a consequence, the final dividend for 2005 06 is reported in the Gearing at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006, calculated as net debt at that date expressed as current year.
a percentage of net debt plus net assets shown in the balance sheet, amounted to 44% and 22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 31% respectively.
By comparison, the gearing ratio, adjusted for the inclusion of regulated Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and Medium Term Note Programmes businesses at their estimated regulatory asset values adjusted gearing ratio, amounted to National Grid Gas has both committed and uncommitted facilities that are available for general 38% at 31 March 2007 compared with 27% 31 March 2006.
The adjusted gearing ratio at 31 corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2007, National Grid Gas plc had a US$2.5 billion US March 2006 has been restated to reflect the impact of the outcomes of the gas transmission Commercial Paper Programme unutilised and a US$1.25 billion Euro Commercial Paper and gas distribution price control reviews on estimates of regulatory asset values.
Programme unutilised : and National Grid Gas plc and National Grid Gas Holdings plc had a joint Euro Medium Term Note Programme of 10 billion 5.9 billion unissued.
National Grid Gas believes this adjusted ratio is a more relevant measure of gearing than one based on book values alone, because the book values do not reflect the economic value of the At 31 March 2007, the National Grid Gas plc had 840 million of long term committed facilities regulated business assets.
A reconciliation of the adjustments necessary to calculate adjusted undrawn and around 840 million of uncommitted borrowing facilities undrawn.
net assets is shown in the following table: In addition to the above facilities, National Grid Gas plc signed a loan agreement in 2006 07 for 2007 2006 370m with the European Investment Bank.
At 31 March 2007, 190m of this remained to be m m drawn and this remaining 190m was drawn in May 2007.
Net assets per balance sheet 4,223 5,273 Adjustment for regulatory asset values 1,650 1,620 Regulatory restrictions As part of National Grid Gass regulatory arrangements, its operations are subject to a number Deferred tax 495 486 of restrictions on the way it can operate.
These include a regulatory ring-fence that require it to Adjusted net assets 6,407 5,378 maintain adequate financial resources and restricts its ability to transfer funds or levy charges between itself and other companies in the National Grid group of companies.
The regulatory adjustments at 31 March 2006 have been restated as described above.
Treasury policy Equity shareholders funds Equity shareholders funds fell from 5,273 million at 31 March 2006 to 4,223 million at 31 The funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas is carried out on its behalf by a central department operating under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National March 2007.
The decrease was mainly explained by attributed equity dividends paid of 1,246 Grid plc.
The Finance Committee, a committee of the Board of National Grid plc, is responsible million being greater than the profit for the year to 31 March 2007 of 130 million.
for regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the authority for which may be delegated.
National Grid plc has a Treasury function that raises Liquidity and treasury management funding and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk for National Grid Gas.
Cash flow Cash flows from National Grid Gass operations are largely stable over a period of years, but There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
The Finance Committees of they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
National Grid Gass DN operations are both National Grid plc and of National Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
Significant changes in volumes, for example as a consequence of weather conditions, can affect cash flows in those The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are businesses, with abnormally mild or cold weather driving volumes down or up respectively.
managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or Subject to this, cash flows are essentially stable.
products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Cash flow forecasting The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy guidelines set by the Board of Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced frequently to assist in identifying the National Grid plc.
Derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of liquidity requirements of National Grid Gas.
the business operational requirements and the policy regarding their use is explained below.
These forecasts are supplemented by a financial headroom position, details of which are Borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2007 and allocated to the gas distribution and metering supplied to the Finance Committee of the Board of National Grid plc regularly to demonstrate businesses amounting to 3,700 million 31 March 2006: 2,605 million.
The table in note 22 funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
National Grid Gas also maintains a minimum shows the expected maturity of these borrowings.
level of committed facilities in support of that objective.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 23 Appropriate committed facilities are in place, such that management believes that the maturing changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with large movements amounts in respect of its contractual obligations, as shown in Commitments and in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed pre-set limits.
Contingencies, can be met from these facilities, operating cash flows and other refinancings Some of National Grid Gass bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to that can reasonably be expected to be able to secure in the future.
National Grid Gass financial changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
Management believe that these bonds provide a position and expected future operating cash flows are such that it can borrow on the wholesale good hedge for revenues and National Grid Gass regulatory asset values that are also RPIcapital and money markets and most of its borrowings are through public bonds and linked under its price control formulae.
The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by Surplus funds are placed on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed deposits comparing the actual total financing costs of our debt with those of a passively-managed that are invested with approved banks and counterparties.
Details relating to cash, short-term benchmark portfolio.
More information on the interest rate profile of debt is included in note 18 investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2007 are shown in notes 16 and 21 to the to the regulatory accounting statements.
Foreign exchange risk management As of 31 March 2007, the long-term senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings National Grid Gas a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange respectively provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors S&P and Fitch were as follows: transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of Moodys A2 P1 transactions six to twelve months in advance.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
Standard & Poors S&P A A1 Fitch A F1 Counterparty risk management Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative In connection with the proposed acquisition of KeySpan Corporation by National Grid, National instruments.
The Finance Committee of National Grid plc has agreed a policy for managing Grid Gass ratings have been moved to creditwatch with negative implications by S&P.
such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, approvals and monitoring procedures.
Where Moodys have placed National Grid Gass ratings on review for downgrade and Fitch have multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting arrangement placed its ratings on rating watch negative.
can be put in place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At the present time, we use standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around National Grid Gas plc that it uses provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement with a reasonable endeavours to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
At these ratings, it should counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
have good access to the capital and money markets for future funding when necessary.
Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other than trading The main risks arising from National Grid Gass financial activities are set out below, as are the As part of its business operations, National Grid Gas is exposed to risks arising from policies for managing these risks, which are agreed and reviewed by the Board of National Grid fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
Financial instruments are used, including plc and the Finance Committee of that Board.
derivatives, to manage exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
National Grid Gass policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions Refinancing risk management can, to varying degrees, carry both counterparty and market risk.
The Board of National Grid plc controls refinancing risk mainly by limiting the amount of financing obligations both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
National Grid Gas enters into interest rate swaps to manage the composition of floating and This policy is intended to prevent National Grid and its subsidiaries from having an excessively fixed rate debt and so hedge the exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements.
In large amount of debt to refinance in a given time-frame.
addition, it enters into bought and written option contracts on interest rate swaps.
These contracts are known as swaptions.
National Grid Gas also enters into foreign currency swaps to Interest rate risk management manage the currency composition of borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate Interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of fixed and movements.
Certain agreements are combined foreign currency and interest rate swap floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
Such agreements are known as cross-currency swaps.
risk management policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs and 24 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 National Grid Gas enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest rate risk on short-term These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an integral part of National Grid debt and money market investments.
Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an Gass financial risk management policy.
At the core of this policy is a condition that it will interest rate that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of specified maturity, starting at engage in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within commodities and a future specified date.
financial markets to which it has a physical market exposure, in terms and volumes consistent with its core business.
National Grid Gas does not issue, or intend to hold, derivative More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in note 17 to the regulatory instruments for trading purposes, and holds such instruments consistent with its various licence accounting statements.
Valuation and sensitivity analysis Commitments and contingencies The fair value of debt and derivative instruments are calculated by discounting all future cash Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March in respect of the gas distribution and flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.
The market yield curve for each metering businesses are summarised in the table below: currency is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case 2007 2006 of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to m m calculate fair value.
Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided for 272 213 Total operating lease commitments 39 80 The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps and currency swaps are a standard market methodology.
These techniques do not take account of the credit quality of In addition, National Grid Gas has other commitments at 31 March 2007 of 213 million 2006: either party, but this is not considered to be a significant factor, unless there is a material 154 million which relate to the company and are not attributable to the regulatory businesses.
deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
Information regarding obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefits is given In relation to swaptions, these are only used for hedging purposes with a European style below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
As a consequence, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is considered to be sufficiently accurate for the purpose of providing fair value information in relation to these National Grid Gas proposes to meet all of its commitments from operating cash flows, existing types of swaptions.
More sophisticated valuation models exist but National Grid Gas does not credit facilities, future facilities and other financing that it reasonably expects to be able to believe it is necessary to employ these models, given the extent of its activities in this area.
For debt and derivative instruments held, National Grid Gas utilises a sensitivity analysis Retirement arrangements technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such instruments.
The substantial majority of employees of the gas distribution and metering businesses are members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme the Scheme which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company of National Grid Gas.
Details of the sensitivity of the income statement and equity to changes in the UK Retail Prices Index and UK interest rates are set out in note 18 d to the regulatory accounting statements.
Under the assumptions set out in note 18 d, a 0.50% change in the UK Retail Prices Index The Scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
would affect the income statement by 5 million, but would have no effect on equity, while a 0.50% change in UK interest rates would affect the income statement by 7 million and equity by 10 million.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National Grid Gas, it accounts for the Scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme and does not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the Commodity contracts Scheme.
Commodity derivatives In the normal course of business, the DNs are party to commodity derivatives.
These have The last completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was as at 31 March 2006.
This included gas futures, gas options and gas forwards that are used to manage commodity prices concluded that the pre-tax deficit was 371 million 260 million net of tax in the defined benefit associated with their gas delivery operations.
section on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 25 It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the March 2006 valuation will need Accounting policies to be provided to the Scheme until the outcome of the interim actuarial assessment at 31 March 2007 is known.
At this point, National Grid will pay the gross amount of any deficit up to a Basis of accounting maximum amount of 520 million 364 million net of tax into the scheme.
Until the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation has been completed, National Grid has arranged for banks to provide The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2007 the trustees of the Scheme with letters of credit.
The main conditions under which these letters and 2006 and the financial position as at 31 March 2007 and 2006 of the regulatory businesses of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the Scheme, such therein.
They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with as National Grid Gas becoming insolvent or National Grid failing to make agreed payments into International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of the Scheme, including administrative expenses, are currently being made at a rate of 32.7% of pensionable payroll.
Choices permitted under IFRS Since 1 April 2005, National Grid Gas has presented its regulatory accounting statements in National Grid Gas does not provide post-retirement benefits other than pensions.
It was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS and in addition it continues to choose from certain options that are available within accounting Related party transactions standards.
National Grid Gas provides services to and receives services from related parties.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the gas distribution and metering businesses charged 23 million and The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as received charges of 153 million from National Grid Gass related parties other than Directors follows: and key managers, compared with 23 million and 165 million respectively in 2005 06.
Option Choice adopted Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 28 to the Transition date The opening IFRS balance sheets were established as at 1 April 2004. regulatory accounting statements.
Details of key management compensation are included Certain balances in National Grid Gass previous UK GAAP regulatory within note 6 c to the regulatory accounting statements.
accounting statements were used as the basis for its opening IFRS balance sheets.
Business combinations Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
Financial instruments National Grid Gas adopted IAS 39 on 1 April 2005.
As a consequence the opening balances at 1 April 2005 are presented using different accounting policies for financial instruments from those used for 2005 06 and 2006 07.
Carrying value of assets In most cases National Grid Gas used brought forward depreciated cost, as at transition adjusted for changes in accounting policies to conform to IFRS, to be the opening carrying value under IFRS.
Share-based payments National Grid Gas recognised all active grants retrospectively.
Cumulative translation National Grid Gas chose to present cumulative translation differences arising differences since 1 April 2004 only.
26 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Significant choices that National Grid Gas continues to make on an ongoing basis include the National Grid Gass critical accounting policies and accounting treatments for the gas following: distribution and metering businesses are considered to be: Option Choice adopted Attribution of revenues, Many of the amounts reported in these regulatory accounting statements costs, assets, liabilities Presentation formats National Grid Gas uses the nature of expense method for income statements include or comprise amounts which are not directly attributable to the and equity to regulatory and totals its balance sheets to net assets and total equity.
regulatory businesses concerned and which have been apportioned between businesses the regulatory businesses.
Significant judgement is exercised in determining In the income statement, National Grid Gas presents subtotals of total those bases of apportionment.
Where there is no reasonable basis of operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, apportionment, arbitrary bases have been adopted.
together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on Amounts determined by apportionment within these regulatory accounting statements comprise net costs of 514 million included in the income the face of the income statement.
statements 2006: 414 million, assets of 4,784 million 2006: 4,779 Pensions National Grid Gas recognises transactions with the defined benefits section of million and liabilities of 5,574 million 2006: 4,346 million.
the National Grid UK Pension Scheme as if it were a defined contribution Estimated asset scheme, and does not recognise any of the scheme assets and liabilities or The reported amounts for amortisation of intangible fixed assets and economic lives actuarial gains and losses.
depreciation of property, plant and equipment can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in determining their estimated economic lives.
Capitalised interest Interest is capitalised into the cost of assets that National Grid Gas constructs.
Intangible asset amortisation and depreciation of property, plant and Capital contributions Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred equipment amounted to 2 million and 301 million respectively in 2006 07 income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
and 11 million and 286 million respectively in 2005 06.
Financial instruments National Grid Gas normally opts to apply hedge accounting in most Carrying value of assets The carrying value of assets recorded in the balance sheets could be circumstances where this is permitted.
and potential for materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being required.
impairment Total assets at 31 March 2007 were 10,692 million, including 6,011 million of property, plant and equipment, 19 million of other intangible assets and Segmental reporting 4,025 million owed by National Grid Gass immediate parent undertaking.
As the results, assets and liabilities of the gas distribution and metering businesses are reported separately in these regulatory accounting statements for each regulatory business, no Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is further segmental reporting is provided.
identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the balance Critical accounting policies sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that The application of accounting principles requires National Grid Gas to make estimates, could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an judgments and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue asset or group of assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to apply and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
ongoing basis, estimates are evaluated using historical experience, consultation with experts Revenue accruals Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to and other methods that are considered reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, the effect of Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
period would have an impact on the reported results of National Grid Gas.
Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 88 million at 31 March 2007 Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies compared with 92 million at 31 March 2006. involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the accounting policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 27 Assets and liabilities Provisions Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative Provision is made for liabilities that are uncertain in estimates.
These include carried at fair value financial instruments, are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather provisions for the cost of environmental restoration and remediation, than historical cost.
restructuring and employer and public liability claims.
The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash flows relating to those of derivative financial instruments where market prices exist.
Other these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, which discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of cash flows relating to include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and environmental liabilities are based on management estimates supported by interest rates as well as equity prices.
the use of external consultants.
Hedge accounting National Grid Gas uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain At 31 March 2007, recorded provisions totalled 77 million 2006: 74 economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates million, including 44 million 2006: 44 million in respect of environmental or other factors that could affect either the value of National Grid Gass assets liabilities.
or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
Tax estimates National Grid Gass tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be rates in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation accounted for using hedge accounting where National Grid Gas meet the requires National Grid Gas to take into account anticipated decisions of tax relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing requirements.
If a authorities and estimate National Grid Gass ability to utilise tax benefits hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is through future earnings and tax planning.
National Grid Gass estimates and ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be assumptions may differ from future events.
recorded in the income statement immediately instead of being recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense or by being offset by In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on reported results and adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Pensions Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the Scheme were a defined contribution scheme.
This accounting treatment is based on there Asset economic lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average not being any contractual arrangements or a stated policy under which the would reduce the annual depreciation charge on property, plant and National Grid Gas is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
equipment by 10 million, but would have a negligible effect on the annual amortisation charge on intangible assets.
A change in these arrangements may lead to National Grid Gas recognising Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2007 would the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the of approximately 6 million net of tax.
Assets carried at fair A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an Exceptional items and Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure value remeasurements increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an of 1 million.
understanding of financial performance between periods.
Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the year ended 31 March 2007 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit Items of income or expense that are considered by management for for the year would have been 28 million lower than that reported net of tax designation as exceptional items include such items as significant and net assets would have been 28 million higher.
restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated in respect of changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase or decrease in net assets businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses of approximately 8 million.
recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
28 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Other interpretations IFRIC 8, IFRIC 9, IFRIC 10 and IFRIC 11 contain guidance on accounting for Accounting developments share-based exchange transactions, embedded derivatives, impairments in New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2006 07 half yearly reports and share-based payments.
These interpretations are not In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with expected to have a material impact on National Grid Gass results, assets or International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and liabilities.
interpretations applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2006.
The following amendments to standards and interpretations were adopted during 2006 07, none of which resulted in a material change to National Grid Gass consolidated results, assets or liabilities in 2006 07 or in those of previous periods.
Leases International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 4 on leases provides guidance on determining when other forms of contractual arrangements should also be accounted for as leases.
Financial instruments Amendments to IAS 39, IFRS 4, and IAS 21 allow for financial liabilities to be designated as fair value through profit and loss in certain circumstances, for certain financial guarantees to be recorded in the balance sheet at their fair value and permitted inter-company exchange gains and losses to be taken to equity reserves on consolidation in certain circumstances.
Other interpretations IFRIC 5, IFRIC 6 and IFRIC 7 contain guidance on accounting for decommissioning, restoration and environmental funds, for waste electrical and electronic equipment and for subsidiaries in hyperinflationary economies.
Forthcoming changes in IFRS The following accounting standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted, but are expected to be adopted in future periods.
Segment reporting IFRS 8 on segment reporting changes the requirements for segmental reporting.
Assuming that it is adopted by European Union, it will apply with effect from 1 April 2009.
If IFRS 8 had been adopted in 2006 07, there would have been no change in business segments reported.
Service concessions IFRIC 12 on service concessions, effective from 1 April 2008, requires assets operated on behalf of a public authority as a concession, where the asset reverts back to the public authority at the conclusion of the arrangement, to be recognised as a financial or intangible asset, depending on whether income is recovered from the public authority or from users.
This is not expected to affect the majority of National Grid Gass assets and liabilities.
However, a full assessment of this interpretation has not yet been completed, so it is possible that there may be an impact on assets and liabilities as a consequence of the adoption of this interpretation.
Borrowing An amendment of IAS 23 on borrowing costs will require interest to be costs capitalised into the cost of assets National Grid Gas constructs.
It already adopts this policy and so this will have no impact.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 29
