Operating and financial review This operating and financial review describes the main trends and factors underlying the Key milestones development, performance and position of the businesses reported in these regulatory 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company accounting statements during the year ended 31 March 2007 as well as those likely to affect 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica their future development, performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses the UK Accounting Standards Board in January 2006, except that in accordance with the of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco requirements of the gas transportation licence under which these regulatory accounting 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group statements are prepared, performance during the year is only discussed for the businesses in 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco aggregate.
2005 Sales of four regional gas distribution networks 2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas Content of operating and financial review 2 About National Grid Gas External market environment 3 Objectives and strategy The principal market in which National Grid Gas operates is the natural gas market in the UK.
7 About the businesses 9 Current and future developments The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different 11 Principal risks and uncertainties suppliers to obtain the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that 14 Key performance indicators gas from gas extractors or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for that gas to be 16 Performance during the year delivered through physical delivery networks.
22 Financial position and financial management 26 Accounting policies These networks, including the ones National Grid Gas operates, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no alternative methods of receiving natural gas.
About National Grid Gas Natural gas delivery Principal operations Natural gas is transported through the gas national transmission system to regional gas National Grid Gas is a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Its principal operations are distribution networks that then deliver that gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain end in regulated gas networks in the UK and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission the provision of gas metering services.
History National Grid Gas is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission system and of four National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
In 2005, following of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
the sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks, we adopted National Grid as a single name for all our principal businesses.
The gas distribution networks in Scotland and southern England are owned by Scotia Gas Networks, in the north of England by Northern Gas Networks, and in Wales and the west of England by Wales & West Utilities.
Other markets in which National Grid Gas operates National Grid Gas also operates in gas related markets in Great Britain which are directly connected to its regulated businesses described above.
National Grid Gas participates in the competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
2 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Objectives and strategy Although there is now a competitive market for metering services in the UK, National Grid Gas does not participate in this competitive market, but is the owner of a legacy portfolio of gas Strategic review meters comprising the majority of the gas meters in operation in Great Britain.
As the competitive market for metering services expands, this portfolio will decline as National Grid National Grid has undertaken a thorough and disciplined strategic review of its business which Gass meters are replaced.
will set the direction of the businesses included in these regulatory accounting statements for the next 5 to 10 years.
In conducting this review, National Grid considered market trends and Regulation opportunities that exist in the utility sector, National Grid Gass market position, how value is As a result of its position in, and importance to, the UK economy, National Grid Gass gas derived from its businesses and the views of the capital markets.
National Grid announced its transmission and distribution businesses are subject to UK and European Union laws and conclusions in November 2006 and objectives have been updated accordingly.
Focus National Grid Gass businesses are regulated by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets National Grids future is about becoming more focused a clear business model based on the Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity ownership and operation of large scale asset intensive businesses, focusing on its principle Markets Authority and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of growth markets, including gas infrastructure in the UK.
revenue that can be earned by regulated businesses, typically covering five-year price control periods.
Integration National Grid Gas aims to run its businesses in a more integrated way organising activities National Grid Gas has two price controls for its gas transmission operations, one in its role as along lines of business, supported by effective and efficient shared services and information transmission owner and the other as system operator.
For gas distribution operations, it has systems.
This involves deploying proven processes, common systems and best practices within four price controls, one for each of its four regional gas distribution networks.
each business, supported by common operating principles, and safety and environmental standards.
In this way, National Grid Gas will maximise the competitive advantages that come These price controls are based around incentives.
National Grid Gas has a financial incentive to from being part of an international organisation.
However, it is critical that this is balanced with invest, receiving a return on efficiently incurred capital expenditure through it increasing its the need to provide excellent service to customers and to maintain and build local relationships regulatory asset base, and it can gain or lose through incentive arrangements for performance with other key stakeholders.
in managing system operation, internal costs and pass-through costs.
Discipline The last price control period for gas transmission operations ended on 31 March 2007.
A new National Grid Gas plans to be more disciplined in the application of best practice.
Increasingly, price control period commenced on 1 April 2007 and is planned to last until 31 March 2012.
The it will standardise its approach, applying even greater rigour to financial discipline, ensuring that current price control period for gas distribution operations has been extended until 31 March it has the capital to grow, but maintaining the investor confidence that comes from a disciplined 2008.
The next price control period is expected to last until 31 March 2013. approach to its balance sheet.
National Grid Gass businesses are subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
Gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby Objectives National Grid Gass organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases National Grid Gass primary objective is to grow its businesses in order to create value for that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
It can only create value if it achieves operational excellence and continues to improve its financial performance, it invests for the future and is financially National Grid Gas has securities which are listed on the London Stock Exchange and on the disciplined, and it develops, recruits and retains skilled, talented and motivated people.
In each New York Stock Exchange.
As a consequence, it is regulated by the Financial Services area, it aims to increase its focus, benefit from improved integration and be disciplined in its Authority in the UK and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
More information about the regulatory environment and on the nature of National Grid Gass price controls, is provided in the section, About the businesses on pages 7 to 9.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 3 As consequence, National Grid Gas has identified specific objectives in the following areas In considering the opportunities there are to grow and develop the businesses included in these which apply to all its businesses: regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has identified a number of risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives.
The most significant risk factors identified relate to: Performance The aim is for operational excellence by operating to the highest standards of changes in laws or regulations: safety, reliability and efficiency.
National Grid Gas aims to continue to improve its breaches in environmental or health and safety law or regulations: financial performance.
network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: Investment achievement of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and delivering National Grid Gas will invest in its existing businesses to generate future growth.
anticipated cost and efficiency savings: It will be financially disciplined in the way it invests and in the way it manages its balance sheet.
regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through to consumers: Talent reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside National Grid Gass control: National Grid Gas aims to maximise the contribution made by its employees by motivating its people to strive for continued improvement, developing their skills fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates and their impact on borrowings and and talents, and by promoting a culture that recognises and respects inclusion derivatives: and diversity.
increases in interest rates: restrictions in borrowings and changes in credit ratings or in tax rates: This strategy is underpinned by National Grid Gass commitments to developing strong and future funding requirements of pension schemes: and valued relationships with its customers, regulators, suppliers and the communities in which it changes in accounting standards.
operates and to acting responsibly, including specific commitments to reducing its environmental impact and to corporate governance and business ethics.
These are described in more detail on pages 11 to 13.
Relationships National Grid Gas aims to improve its relationships with customers, regulators, Shareholder value suppliers and the communities in which it operates by focusing on the areas that By achieving its objectives around performance, growth, talent, relationships and responsibility are important to them, such as the quality of service National Grid Gas provides National Grid Gas aims to deliver sustainable growth to create value for National Grids to customers, the quality of information it provides to regulators, by investing in shareholders.
local communities and by the way it address the concerns of, and interact with, all its stakeholders.
Following are some of the specific objectives National Grid Gas has set itself in these areas in Responsibility National Grid Gas believes operating responsibly is essential to the way it order to support its overall goals and which are relevant to the businesses included in these conducts its operations, invests, develops its people and manages its regulatory accounting statements.
The objectives are set in the context of its strategy of relationships and so responsibility underpins everything it does.
increasing its focus, seeking to benefit from improved integration and being disciplined in its It is committed to taking positive action to reduce its contribution to climate approach.
change and its other impacts on the environment.
National Grid Gas wants to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and it believes in Performance strong business ethics, based around its core values of respect, integrity and National Grid Gass aim is for operational excellence, performing to the highest standards of ownership.
safety, reliability and efficiency and continuing to improve its financial performance: Risk Safety National Grid Gass principal risks relate to the achievement of its objectives and strategy, as it Safety is paramount.
believes that by delivering on these objectives it will achieve its principal objective of delivering National Grid Gass most important goals are: to ensure that members of the growth to drive shareholder value.
The way in which it intends to achieve its objectives is set public are not injured as a direct result of its operations: to deliver a working below and performance during the year against those objectives, by the businesses included in environment where there are zero work-related injuries or illnesses: and to these regulatory accounting statements, is set out on pages 16 to 21. improve the health of its employees so they are fit for work every day.
Measures used to monitor performance against the safety objectives include: members of the public injured as a direct result of operations: employee lost time injury frequency rate: and employee sickness absence rate.
4 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Reliability National Grid Gass principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK Growth economy.
The reliability of gas infrastructure networks and the delivery of gas to Investment and financial discipline are critical to National Grid Gass plans to grow the customers, are, therefore, the next highest priorities after safety.
businesses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the operational tools and Investment National Grid Gas invests in its existing businesses in order to grow those techniques necessary to manage its assets and operations to high standards businesses.
and investing in the renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of Measures used to monitor investment include capital expenditure.
its people to give them the ability to operate its networks to a high degree of Generate value from National Grid Gas aims to generate value from investment by improving the service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of its investment operating performance of the transmission business and by selecting principal objectives, ensuring it is proactive about planning to ensure reliability investments that will provide the best return.
and that it reacts quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
Measures used to monitor the value generated from investments include return National Grid Gas uses business-specific reliability performance indicators to on investment.
Financial discipline Efficiency In order to deliver sustainable growth National Grid Gas must be disciplined in By improving efficiency, National Grid Gas can constrain the cost of its the way it manages its balance sheet.
operations borne by customers and improve returns to shareholders.
It reviews its operations continually to identify opportunities to improve the operational This means that cash will be returned to National Grids shareholders to the productivity of assets and people, and to identify areas in which it can reduce extent that it is not required for the investment objective.
costs or restrict cost increases.
Planning ahead is essential in National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving efficiency.
Talent The primary method of measuring improvements in efficiency is through financial National Grid Gas depends on the talents, skills and motivation of its employees.
It aims to performance as described below.
maximise the contribution made by its employees by developing their skills and talents, by Financial If National Grid Gas achieves its objectives, it should be able to deliver continued motivating and driving continued improvement and by promoting a culture that recognises and performance improvements in financial performance.
This will contribute to National Grid respects inclusion and diversity and where all employees share National Grid Gass core values delivering on its commitment to growing its dividend by 7% per annum until 31 of respect, integrity and ownership.
In addition to obtaining the views of employees on an March 2008. ongoing basis, employee surveys are periodically carried out to identify areas where the way The principal measures used to monitor financial performance are adjusted National Grid Gas develops and interacts with them can be improved.
operating profit and operating cash flows.
Motivation and National Grid Gas plans to improve its operational performance and the service it Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
performance provides to customers by motivating employees to strive for continued improvement.
The aim is for a world-class performance management system, involving integrated common performance processes, a single set of performance criteria, pay linked to leadership qualities as well as operational and financial performance and greater differentiation between levels of performance.
Development of talent Critical to National Grid Gass success is identifying, recruiting and developing and skills talented people and helping management and employees to operate to the best of their abilities.
Inclusion and In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people, National Grid Gas aims to diversity achieve a more inclusive and diverse culture.
A number of priority action areas have been identified to help achieve the vision of developing and operating the business in a way that results in a more inclusive and diverse culture, reflecting the composition of the communities in which National Grid Gas operates, and to National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 5 be seen as an employer of choice across diverse communities.
Performance measures used to monitor this objective of promoting inclusion and diversity include the percentage of female employees and the percentage of Community National Grid Gass role as a good corporate citizen supports its strategic black and minority ethnic employees.
involvement ambitions, and is delivered through a sustained and consistent approach.
Values National Grid Gass aim is for all its people to be proud to work for National Grid Gas, to share its core values of respect, integrity and ownership.
In all community investment, National Grid Gas aims to develop its business, support its employees, support communities and enhance its reputation.
Its approach is based on two principles: Investment in our Communities, Relationships Investment in our People, and continues to be centred on three key themes: National Grid Gas has a diverse range of external stakeholders including employees, energy and environment: education and skills: and community development.
customers, regulators, government and local communities.
It strives to be open and Sharing of best practice across the business and working collaboratively with key constructive in its dealings with external audiences.
partners and stakeholders enables National Grid Gas to maximise how communities benefit from its activities.
Relationships with stakeholders are critical to National Grid Gass future success.
National Grid Gass strategy involves improving these relationships by focusing on the areas that are Responsibility important to them, such as the quality of service provided to customers, the quality of National Grid Gas is committed to operating in a responsible way and this underpins its information provided to regulators and the way it addresses the concerns of, and interacts with, commitments to performance, growth, talent and relationships as discussed above.
As an asset intensive business, National Grid Gass operations have an impact on the Customer service National Grid Gass objective is to impress its customers with the quality of the environment.
The most significant of these for the transmission business is climate change.
services provided, with its responsiveness when things go wrong and with its National Grid Gas also takes actions to minimise other environmental impacts of its operations, dedication to continued improvement.
it is committed to strong governance and ethical standards and it is committed to protecting National Grid Gas plans to improve the way it interact with customers by human rights.
enhancing or replacing the systems used, through providing employees with the training, empowerment and support they need to deliver and by improving the Climate change Climate change is possibly one of the greatest challenges facing society in the quality of communications with customers and internally.
National Grids public position statement on energy delivery and Business-specific service quality performance indicators are used to measure climate change sets out its approach to delivering energy while playing its role in performance in this area.
minimising any impact its operations may have on the climate.
Regulatory National Grid Gass regulators primary responsibilities are to gas consumers.
National Grids target is to reduce its carbon emissions by 60% compared with a relationships Hence, the foundation of the relationship with regulators is based on the safety, verified baseline, ahead of the Governments target of 2050. reliability and efficiency of National Grid Gass operations and the quality of its The biggest greenhouse gas emission for the businesses covered in these customer service.
The strategic focus on operational excellence and on regulatory accounting statements is carbon emissions from the compressors customer relationships plays a critical part in improving relationships with used on the gas national transmission system.
A programme to install new regulators.
compressors at key sites will reduce these.
The other critical element in regulatory relationships is in building trust.
This involves being responsive to the need of regulators for high quality information, National Grid Gas plans to reduce emissions relating to its own energy use, saving at least 5% in energy consumption, and use the resultant cost savings to complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way and, most enable it to procure all of the electricity it uses from renewable sources by the importantly, delivering on promises.
Suppliers National Grid Gas aims to work in partnership with its suppliers, developing constructive relationships and working together effectively.
National Grid Gass The key performance indicator used to monitor National Grid Gass performance objective is to develop contractual arrangements with suppliers that align their in this area is the percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
interests with its own, as far as possible, and share financial risks appropriately.
Protecting the National Grid Gas is committed to continuous improvement in its environmental environment It expects suppliers to be as equally committed as itself to safety, reliability and 6 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 performance.
About the businesses Its objective is to help protect the environment for future generations.
In addition to aiming to actively reduce its contribution to climate change, National Grid Gas Businesses is committed to: These NTS regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and being efficient in its use of natural resources: activities of National Grid Gas: keeping waste to a minimum and increasing the economic value of any Regulatory business Description of regulatory business waste produced: NTS businesses Owns and operates the gas national transmission system NTS in Great Britain acting to prevent environmental incidents: and which comprises approximately 4,326 miles of high pressure pipeline and 26 compressor stations, connecting to eight distribution networks and to third party improving, where it can, the environmental status of the land on which it independent systems for onward transmission of gas to end consumers.
Day to day operation includes balancing supply and demand, maintaining National Grid Gas has implemented environmental management systems satisfactory system pressures and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
certified to the international standard ISO 14001 in all its businesses to help it LNG storage businessOwns and operates four liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in the UK.
deliver improvements in these areas.
fide-minimis activities Other business activities carried out in association with the DN and metering Key performance indicators that are monitored in this area comprise the number businesses which are not subject to direct regulation by Ofgem.
of significant direct environmental incidents and the total value of fines from Other activities Other activities carried out in association with the DN and metering businesses prosecutions.
with the specific consent of Ofgem.
Corporate National Grid Gas believes strong corporate governance is essential to operating governance responsibly and achieving its goals.
The approach to corporate governance is Business drivers set out on pages 29 and 30. Business ethics Not only is National Grid Gas committed to ensuring that all its behaviours are The operation of highly complex gas networks means there are many factors that influence the lawful and that it complies with its policies and licences, it also expects all of its financial returns National Grid Gas obtains.
The Directors consider the following to be the main employees to live up to the core values of respect, integrity and ownership.
business drivers relevant to the businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements: Human rights National Grids public position statement sets out the commitment to protect human rights within National Grid Gass sphere of influence and ensure its own Price controls The prices National Grid Gas charges for use of the NTS are determined in operations are a force for good, wherever it operates.
accordance with regulator-approved price controls.
The negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact on the revenues obtained from operations.
In addition, these arrangements include incentives that permit National Grid Gas to earn additional revenues based on its performance or penalise it if it does not meet agreed performance targets.
The period of these arrangements is significant to National Grid Gas in that they provide stability to its operations and allow it to plan ahead and invest in the confidence that it will obtain financial returns.
These price controls typically cover periods of five years.
Safety and National Grid Gass ability to operate safely and reliably is very important to it, its reliability employees, contractors, customers, the public and its regulators.
Its financial performance is affected by its performance in these areas.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 7 Efficiency Seasonality National Grid Gass objective, and that of its regulator, Ofgem, is for it to deliver NTS business revenues are weighted towards the end of the financial year, as services as efficiently as possible.
This allows National Grid Gas to limit price gas demand is typically higher during the winter months.
Seasonality does not increases or to reduce prices to its customers and improve its own financial have a significant impact on other revenues.
performance to the benefit of National Grids shareholders.
With the exception of commodity costs, operating costs are generally not Capital investment Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In National Grid Gass regulated gas networks, the prices it charges include an Interest rates The costs of financing operations are affected by changes in prevailing interest allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance with its price rates, as some of National Grid Gass debt is at floating rates.
This provides incentives for it to enhance the quality and reach of its exposure to interest rates is hedged with fixed-rate debt and derivative financial networks through capital improvements.
instruments to maintain a proportion of debt at fixed interest rates.
Relationships and National Grid Gass reputation is vitally important to it.
Delivering sustainable responsibility value depends on the trust and confidence of its stakeholders and this can only NTS business be earned by conducting its business in a responsible manner.
As gas transmission owner, National Grid Gas owns and maintains the physical assets, develops the network to accommodate new connections and disconnections, and manages a A number of other factors also affect National Grid Gass financial performance, but are less programme of asset replacement and investment to ensure the long-term reliability of the significant than the principal business drivers above, or are mitigated by the way its operations network.
are structured: As gas system operator, National Grid Gas undertakes a range of activities necessary for the Weather and volumes Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through the NTS may result in an successful, efficient delivery, in real-time, of secure and reliable energy.
It ensures the system is increase or decrease in National Grid Gass revenues.
Volumes are affected by balanced with supply and demand at the end of each day.
It is also required to maintain levels weather and consumer demand as well as other factors.
of short-term gas reserves to ensure that domestic and other non-daily metered gas supplies The impact of changing volumes may sometimes be offset by changes in costs can be maintained during prolonged cold conditions.
or may sometimes result in an underor over-recovery against allowable revenues, with a corresponding increase or decrease in revenue in future The charges that National Grid Gas can make for access to the NTS are determined by a periods.
formula linked to the Retail Prices Index RPI.
Up until 31 March 2007, this was set at RPI -2%.
Pass-through costs National Grid Gas is allowed to recover certain costs through charges to This formula is based upon Ofgems estimates of operating expenditure, capital expenditure customers.
The timing of recovery of these costs can vary between financial and asset replacement, together with an allowed rate of return.
The rate of return up until 31 periods leading to an under or over-recovery within any particular financial March 2007 was set at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on the regulatory asset value for the NTS.
Commodity costs National Grid Gas is affected by movements in commodity prices to the extent The regulatory asset value of the NTS as of 31 March 2007 is estimated as approximately 3.3 that they affect its own energy requirements, the most significant of which relates billion 2.8 billion at March 2006. to gas purchases required for the operation of the gas national transmission system.
Where Ofgem determines that capital investment in the NTS is efficiently invested, National Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, operating costs increase each year as a Grid Gas obtains a rate of return on that investment.
result of wage increases and inflation in external costs.
In general, revenues also increase each year, although not necessarily at the same rate, depending on Under the gas system operation incentive schemes, if National Grid Gas operates the NTS regulatory or contractual arrangements.
As a consequence, National Grid Gass more efficiently than Ofgems forecasts, it can increase its revenues.
There are eight incentive ability to control costs and improve efficiency is important to its ability to increase schemes covering activities such as cost of investment for additional capacity, managing operating profits.
constraints, market information provision, the cost of purchasing shrinkage gas gas used in National Grid Gass price controls are linked to retail price inflation, as are a operating the system or lost during transport and other gas system operation costs.
8 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 LNG storage Current and future developments The LNG storage business is managed as a separate business from the NTS business.
However, it is regulated under the NTS gas transporter licence.
A portion of LNG storage External market developments capacity is set aside to support network operating requirements, with the remaining capacity Market structure and ownership sold to gas shippers.
There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market since 2005, when National Grid Gas sold four of our regional gas distribution networks to other fide-minimis activities operators.
fide-minimis activities comprise those activities undertaken by National Grid Gas which do not form part of its DN business, metering business, meter reading business, NTS business or LNG Energy market developments storage business, based on the definitions of those businesses in National Grid Gass two gas The UK is in a period of changing energy supply patterns, as more reliance is placed on transporter licences, and which have not been specifically consented to by Ofgem.
The decline in UK continental shelf gas reserves means there is a continued trend toward greater use of imported gas for both consumption and power generation.
fide-minimis activities mainly comprise the provision of contracting type services for other companies in the National Grid group of companies and for third parties.
This change is expected to impact on the NTS, where significant investment is planned to link gas import facilities with the distribution networks and with new power plants.
While the carrying out of fide-minimis activities is not directly regulated by Ofgem, the overall volume of such activities are constrained by two caps set out in National Grid Gass gas As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the UK continental shelf, National Grid transporter licences.
The revenue cap restricts the aggregate revenue that can be earned from Gass latest forecast is that the UK will import around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of fide-minimis activities to no more than 2.5% of the revenue from the regulatory businesses and the decade.
the investment cap restricts the aggregate net investment in fide-minimis activities to no more than 2.5% of National Grid Gass net assets.
Activity to increase the UKs import capability has involved the development of new import infrastructure by National Grid and other market participants.
During the year, a number of Other activities significant infrastructure projects were commissioned, including the Langeled pipeline from Norway, connecting at Easington and providing annual capacity of 25 billion cubic metres bcm Other activities comprise those activities undertaken by National Grid Gas which would be of gas: enhancements to the Belgian interconnector increasing annual import capacity from classed as fide-minimis activities except that Ofgem has given specific consent for these 17.5 to 25 bcm: and the BBL pipeline at 15 bcm capacity, linking the UK market at Bacton with activities to be undertaken.
Such consents are for limited duration, but can be extended or the Netherlands.
In addition, Excelerate Energy commissioned its 4 bcm peak capability LNG withdrawn by Ofgem.
facility at Teesside, using onboard ship re-gasification technology, and National Grid Gas is currently building a large pipeline through South Wales to connect new LNG importation Other activities mainly comprise the provision of common services to other companies in the facilities at Milford Haven.
National Grid group of companies and the provision of specific services to the four gas distribution networks sold in 2005.
Following development of the UK gas daily summary report during winter 2005 06, it became clear how important the delivery of key information was to the operation of the market.
For winter 2006 07, National Grid Gas worked with Ofgem and the industry to enhance the quality of information that is available to the market, to further promote industry participant response to the gas supply demand position.
Of particular note is the introduction of the quality of information incentives, which have been placed on the NTS business to improve the timeliness and accuracy of the information being made available to the market, and the introduction of longer term demand forecasts.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 9 1 June 2007, National Grid Gas issued injunctive proceedings at Cardiff Crown Court and a Regulatory developments possession order for land at Penpont on the pipeline route.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, there were no significant changes in the legislative and regulatory framework in the UK.
Emissions trading The second year of Phase 1, from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2007, of the European In January 2007, the European Commission published its final report on its energy sector Union emissions trading scheme commenced on 1 January 2006.
Its purpose is to reduce the competition inquiry, concluding that further action is required to improve energy markets in the level of carbon dioxide emitted by placing a financial incentive on participants to reduce their European Union.
It focused on problems from high levels of market concentration as well as emissions of this greenhouse gas.
Allowances are granted to participants in accordance with a vertical integration of supply, generation and infrastructure leading to a lack of equal access to, national allocation plan and any shortfall or surplus can be traded with other participants.
Of and sufficient investment in infrastructure.
The report also called for improvement in the National Grid Gass businesses, only certain emissions by its gas transmission businesses fall regulatory framework to remove gaps in regulation, address concerns with market concentration within the scheme.
and increase transparency in market operations.
The gas transmission businesss total carbon dioxide emissions between 1 January and 31 Price controls December 2006, for installations captured by the scheme, were below National Grid Gass The previous price control arrangements for the NTS business ceased on 31 March 2007 and allocation and so the scheme did not have a material financial effect on results in 2006 07. have been replaced by new price controls which cover the period from 1 April 2007 to 31 March National Grid Gas similarly does not expect the scheme to have a significant impact on results 2012. in 2007 or 2008.
The national allocation plan detailing installation level allowances for Phase 2 of the European Union emissions trading scheme, covering the period from 1 January 2008 to National Grid Gas has accepted Ofgems final proposals in respect of the price control covering 31 December 2012, has now been published by Department of the Environment and Rural its role as owner of the NTS.
The key elements of these proposals are a 4.4% post-tax real rate Affairs.
National Grid Gass allocation of allowances for Phase 2 of the scheme is lower than for of return on the regulatory asset value, a 0.9 billion baseline five year capital expenditure Phase 1 of the scheme, but in line with expectations.
allowance and a 0.3 billion five year controllable operating expenditure allowance.
Since the acceptance in principle of the final proposals, National Grid Gas has been working closely with Legal and related matters Ofgem to agree the necessary licence amendments.
This process should be completed during the first half of 2007.
National Grid Gas has also accepted Ofgem's final proposals for the There are no significant legal or related matters in respect of the gas transmission businesses, system operator schemes to apply for one year from 1 April 2007. other than those in relation to the Milford Haven pipeline referred to above.
Other developments A number of gas pipeline and compressor projects are being progressed to respond to new import pipelines and gas import facilities.
Around 90 miles of gas pipeline has been constructed from Ganstead to Asselby in the region of Humberside and from Pannal in North Yorkshire to Nether Kellet in Lancashire, to enable increased imports at Easington.
Around 200 miles of new pipeline is being built in South Wales and Gloucestershire to cater for the Milford Haven importation facility.
Following the decision of the High Court to set aside the planning consent granted by Neath Port Talbot Council for Cilfrew pressure reduction installation on the Milford Haven pipeline, work on the installation was suspended.
On 10 April 2007, National Grid Gas issued a force majeure notice, under its contract with the shippers, as this event, which was outside of its control, may result in it not being able to provide, or be delayed in providing the full amount of capacity that has been allocated to gas shippers using the Milford Haven facility.
On 15 May 2007, the Neath Port Talbot Council held a revote on the planning application which was then approved.
National Grid Gas is now assessing the actual delay if any of providing the full amount of capacity that has been allocated to shippers.
On 10 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Risk factors Principal risks and uncertainties National Grid Gass risk management process has identified the following risk factors which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations Risk management and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of its securities.
Not all of these factors are Understanding and managing risks is integral to the way National Grid Gas is run.
There is a within National Grid Gass control.
In addition, other factors besides those listed below may well established enterprise-wide risk management process that ensures risks are consistently have an adverse effect on National Grid Gas.
Any investment decision regarding National Grid assessed, recorded and reported in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of Gass securities and any forward-looking statements made by it should be considered in the which are primarily used as a management tool.
A secondary and natural output from this light of these risk factors.
process is information that provides assurance to management at all levels and thus helps safeguard National Grid Gass assets and reputation.
It is designed to manage rather than Changes in law or regulation could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass results eliminate material risks to the achievement of strategic and business objectives while also of operations.
recognising that any such process can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance National Grid Gass principal businesses are utilities or networks that are subject to regulation against material misstatement or loss.
This process complies with the Turnbull working party by the Government and other authorities.
Consequently, changes in law or regulation could guidance revised October 2005 and, in addition, contributes towards compliance with adversely affect it.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for example, whether licences or approvals obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as other internal assurance activities.
to operate are granted or are renewed, whether market developments have been satisfactorily implemented and whether there has been any breach of the terms of a licence or approval, the Risk management in National Grid Gas has become further embedded over time and this level of permitted revenues for National Grid Gass businesses and proposed business experience has enabled the identification of a number of key success criteria linked to both the development activities could have an adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows, risk management framework and process that, if in place, will help ensure the process the financial condition of its businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in the continues to remain embedded.
For further information, see the External market environment and Regulation sections of this Operating and Financial Review.
The risk management process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down assessments of operational, financial and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, Breaches of, or changes in, environmental or health and safety laws or regulations could National Grid Gass business units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture key risks expose National Grid Gas to claims for financial compensation and adverse regulatory and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and consequences, as well as damaging National Grid Gass reputation.
discussed by the executive committees for those business units.
The key element in the topAspects of National Grid Gass activities are potentially dangerous, such as the transmission down assessments of the enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and other and distribution of natural gas.
Gas utilities also typically use and generate in their operations senior management at critical stages in the review process.
Their review and debate of bottomhazardous and potentially hazardous products and by-products.
In addition, there may be other up assessments produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by National Grid aspects of National Grid Gass operations which are not currently regarded or proved to have Gas.
In addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Committees of National adverse effects but could become so.
National Grid Gas is subject to laws and regulations Grid plc review National Grids overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of National relating to pollution, the protection of the environment, and how it uses and disposes of Grid plc also reviews the risk management process at least once during each year and reports hazardous substances and waste materials.
It is also subject to laws and regulations governing on this to the Board of National Grid plc.
health and safety matters protecting the public and its employees.
Any breach of these obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to a breach, could adversely affect National During the year National Grid Gas has continued to derive benefits from this process through Grid Gass results of operations and its reputation.
For further information about environmental ongoing interaction with National Grid plcs Internal Audit function and Sarbanes-Oxley teams.
and health and safety matters relating to National Grid Gass businesses, see the Our The external benchmarking exercise of National Grid as a whole has continued with other FTSE Responsibility section of National Grids website at www.
100 companies and public sector organisations to measure the effectiveness of the approach and exchange ideas on best practice.
With the move to a line of business operating model, the opportunity is being taken to restructure risk and compliance management services to ensure approaches are consistent across businesses and continue to provide value to business operations, including major projects.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 11 Network failure or the inability to carry out critical non-network operations may have National Grid Gass reputation may be harmed if consumers of energy suffer a disruption significant adverse impacts on both National Grid Gass financial position and its to their supply even if this disruption is outside its control.
National Grid Gass gas transmission business is responsible for transporting available gas.
National Grid Gas consults with and provides information to regulators, governments and National Grid Gas may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to carry out critical non-network operations.
Operational performance could be adversely affected by a failure to industry participants about future demand and the availability of supply.
However, where there maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or inadequate is insufficient supply, National Grid Gass role is to manage the relevant network safely, which in record keeping.
This could cause National Grid Gas to fail to meet agreed standards of service extreme circumstances may require National Grid Gas to disconnect consumers.
or be in breach of a licence or approval, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming its Fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates could have a significant impact on reputation.
In addition to these risks, National Grid Gas may be affected by other potential National Grid Gass results of operations because of the significant proportion of its events that are largely outside of its control such as the impact of weather or unlawful acts of borrowings, and derivative financial instruments that may potentially be affected by such third parties.
Weather conditions can affect financial performance and severe weather that fluctuations.
causes outages or damages infrastructure will adversely affect operational and potentially National Grid Gass results of operations may be impacted because a significant proportion of business performance.
Terrorist attack, sabotage or other intentional acts may also physically its borrowings and derivative financial instruments are affected by changes in exchange rates damage National Grid Gass businesses or otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and and interest rates.
For further information about this and how this risk is mitigated, see the as a consequence adversely impact the results of operations.
Financial position and financial management section of this Operating and Financial Review.
National Grid Gass results of operations depend on a number of factors relating to The nature and extent of National Grid Gass borrowings means that an increase in business performance including performance against regulatory targets and the delivery interest rates could have an adverse impact on its financial position and business of anticipated cost and efficiency savings.
Earnings maintenance and growth from National Grid Gass regulated gas businesses will be A significant proportion of National Grid Gass borrowings are subject to variable interest rates affected by its ability to meet or better efficiency targets set by or agreed with Ofgem and other which may fluctuate with changes to prevailing interest rates.
Increases in these interest rates regulators.
Earnings from National Grid Gass regulated businesses will be affected by its ability could therefore increase National Grid Gass costs and diminish its profits.
For further to recover incurred expenditure.
Levels of earnings also depend on meeting service quality information about this, see the Financial position and financial management section of this standards set by regulators.
In addition, from time to time, National Grid Gas also publishes Operating and Financial Review.
cost and efficiency savings targets for its businesses.
National Grid Gas is also reorganising operations along lines of business.
To meet these targets and standards, it must continue to National Grid Gass financial position may be adversely affected by a number of factors improve operational performance, service reliability and customer service.
If National Grid Gas including restrictions in borrowing and debt arrangements, changes to credit ratings and does not meet these targets and standards, it is not able to recover incurred expenditure, or it effective tax rates.
does not implement this reorganisation as envisaged, it may not achieve the expected benefits, National Grid Gas is subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to its listed debt its business may be adversely affected and its performance, results of operations and its securities and its bank lending facilities.
It is also subject to restrictions on financing which have reputation may be harmed.
These restrictions may hinder National Grid Gas in servicing the financial requirements of its businesses.
National Grid Gass debt is rated by credit rating Changes to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs may have an adverse effect on agencies and changes to these ratings may affect both its borrowing capacity and the cost of the results of operations.
The effective rate of tax it pays may be influenced by a number of factors Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact the gas transmission business.
Current including changes in law and accounting standards and National Grid Gass overall approach to regulatory arrangements in the UK provide the ability to pass-through virtually all of the tax planning, the results of which could increase that rate.
increased costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, if Ofgem were to restrict this ability, it could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass operating results.
12 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Future funding requirements of pension schemes could adversely affect National Grid Gass results of operations.
Substantially all of National Grid Gass employees are members of a defined benefit scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of National Grid Gass own financial resources.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for the scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may result in a requirement for additional contributions to the pension scheme.
National Grid Gass legal obligations to the scheme are limited to paying the employers contribution rate set by the trustees of the scheme.
However, circumstances may require that it makes additional contributions.
To the extent that any increases in contributions are not recoverable under National Grid Gass price controls, its results of operations could be adversely affected.
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations by the UK, or international accounting standard setting boards and other relevant bodies could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass reported financial results.
The accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, of replacement expenditure, pension and post retirement benefits, derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts significantly affect the way National Grid Gass financial position and results of operations are reported.
As a body of practice develops for IFRS, the application and interpretation of accounting principles to National Grid Gass circumstances, and to those areas in particular, could result in changes in the financial results and financial position that it reports.
In addition, new standards, rules or interpretations may be issued which could also have significant effects.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 13 Key performance indicators National Grid Gas measures the achievement of objectives through the use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, termed key performance indicators KPIs.
In line with operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Where relevant, KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether principal operating objectives have been achieved.
However, the scale and size of National Grid Gass operations means that many other detailed performance measures are used in addition to KPIs.
KPIs are also used to measure performance against the primary objective of growing the business to create value for National Grids shareholders.
Qualitative assessments are used to judge progress against objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
The majority of KPIs are unchanged from last year, but the table below has been expanded to include business-specific reliability KPIs.
Value KPI Description Target Results Performance Injuries to members of the public Members of the public injured as a direct result of gas Zero 2006 07: zero 1 safety transmission operations 2005 06: zero Employee lost time injury frequency rate Injuries resulting in employees taking time off work Zero 2006 07: 0.29 per 100,000 hours worked 2005 06: 0.57 2 Sickness absence rate Proportion of available work Zero work-related sickness 2006 07: 2.2% days which are lost due to sickness 2005 06: 2.2% Performance Gas transmission network reliability Gas delivered by the NTS as a proportion of gas 100% 2006 07: 100% reliability demanded 2005 06: 100% 3 Performance Adjusted operating profit Operating profit from continuing operations excluding To increase sufficiently to support 7% growth in 2006 07: 308 million efficiency and exceptional items and remeasurements for the gas National Grids dividend through to March 2008 2005 06: 280 million financial transmission businesses performance Operating cash flows Cash generated from continuing operations of the 2006 07: 406 million transmission businesses 2005 06: 351 million Growth - investment Capital expenditure Additions to plant and equipment and to intangible There is no numerical target for capital expenditure, as 2006 07: 628 million assets for the gas transmission businesses each investment is different and is considered on its 2005 06: 318 million merits.
4 Growth value from Return on investment Adjusted regulatory profit for gas transmission as a To achieve a minimum return of 5.05% from 1 April 2006 07: 7.6% investment percentage of regulatory asset value 2007 consistent with the return projected by Ofgem for 2005 06: 8.1% the 5-year price control period commencing 1 April 2007.
Talent inclusion Percentage of female employees Proportion of employees who are female There are no specific targets, the aim being to ensure 2006 07: 20.0% and diversity that the best candidates are recruited regardless of 2005 06: 19.4% sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion or belief Percentage of ethnic minority employees Proportion of employees who are black and minority 2006 07: 4.5% ethnic 2005 06: 4.5% 5 Responsibility Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions CO equivalent emissions estimated to be caused by Year on year reduction 2006 07: 24.6% 2 climate change gas transmission operations Responsibility Significant direct environmental incidents Own fault and contractor related environmental Zero 2006 07: 2, 13 protect the incidents 2005 06: 1, zero environment Total value of fines from environmental Financial amount of fines imposed Zero 2006 07: zero 14 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Value KPI Description Target Results prosecutions 2005 06: zero 1 Injuries comprise fatalities, injuries that require the person to receive hospital treatment and other injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR.
2 The sickness absence rate includes absences resulting from both work-related and non-work related illnesses.
The target relates to work-related illnesses, however, National Grid Gas does not have a measure that excludes non work-related illnesses sufficiently accurately.
3 Operating profit from continuing operations including exceptional items and remeasurements increased from 280 million in 2005 06 to 303 million in 2006 07.
4 The calculation of adjusted regulatory profit is explained on page 18.
5 The KPI used for measuring reduction in greenhouse gas emissions has been changed from last years measure of greenhouse gas emissions per m revenue to a measure that aligns with National Grids target of a 60% reduction in emissions.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 15 distribution businesses.
The gas transmission business has also been undertaking a number of Performance during the year internal business process reviews to seek out further savings without compromising other objectives.
In accordance with the requirements of National Grid Gass NTS gas transporter licence, the performance of the businesses included within these NTS regulatory accounting statements is Gas transmission performance considered in aggregate.
These businesses are the NTS business, the LNG storage business 2006 07 saw a maximum demand for gas of 436 mcm on 8 February 2007.
This increase on the and the associated fide-minimis activities and other activities.
The aggregate of these previous years peak of 411 mcm was partly due a particularly cold snap at the beginning of businesses is referred to as the gas transmission businesses.
Performance information relating to National Grid Gas as a whole can be found in its Annual Financial performance Report and Accounts 2006 07.
The performance information provided below is that which is Gas transmission operating profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items and particularly relevant to the gas transmission businesses.
remeasurements, rose from 280 million in 2005 06 to 308 million in 2006 07.
Operating profit from continuing operations rose from 280 million in 2005 06 to 303 million in 2006 07.
Performance Safety Earnings from continuing operations before exceptional items and remeasurements fell from Aspects of safety performance deteriorated in 2006 07 compared with 2005 06, which is 174 million in 2005 06 to 156 million in 2006 07.
Earnings from continuing operations fell from disappointing after the significant improvement recorded last year.
The aim in 2007 08 is to 172 million in 2005 06 to 145 million in 2006 07. improve safety performance in line with National Grid Gass goal of zero injuries.
Cash flows generated by continuing operations increased from 351 million in 2005 06 to 406 Public safety million in 2006 07.
No members of the public were injured as a result of transmission operations in either year.
More information on financial performance is contained under financial results on pages 18 to Employee safety 21.
During 2006 07, 5 gas transmission employees received injuries that resulted in them taking time off work, compared with 8 in 2005 06.
As a consequence, employee lost time injuries per Growth 100,000 hours worked fell to 0.29 in 2006 07 compared with 0.57 in the previous year.
Capital investment Investment in gas transmission systems is, by its nature, variable and is largely driven by Contractor safety changing sources of supply and asset replacement requirements.
National Grid Gass NTS gas There was an increase in contractor lost time injuries from 15 in 2005 06 to 32 in 2006 07. transporter licence also obliges it to provide connections and capacity upon request.
Employee health Parts of the gas transmission network are reaching the end of their lives.
These are mainly Around 2.2% of available work days were lost due to sickness absence in 2006 07, the same as compressor stations, control systems and valves ie above ground assets and not the high the previous year.
This equates to 5.8 days of sickness per employee per year.
Similarly, some equipment associated with LNG storage installations also Confederation of British Industrys 2007 sickness absence survey reported that average annual needs replacing.
These, together with work required to meet changing supply sources, means sickness for UK company employees was 7.0 days.
that the gas transmission business has embarked on a significant increase in investment and asset renewal.
Reliability Gas compressor fleet performance during 2006 07 declined slightly, with the average time between compressor failures at 6% below our five-year average, compared with 10% above the five-year average time between failures in 2005 06.
Efficiency National Grid Gas has continued to institute measures during the year to improve efficiency, with the implementation of a shared services function to support its gas transmission and gas 16 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and extension of the gas transmission Talent systems in 2006 07 was 628 million compared with 318 million in 2005 06.
Development of talent Development and recruitment of employees is undertaken on an integrated basis for all 2006 07 has seen a substantial increase in the level of capital investment in gas pipeline National Grids UK businesses, including the gas transmission businesses.
projects, some 244 million higher than 2005 06.
National Grid Gas continues to invest in the recruitment and development of skilled employees 2007 2006 for the future and, in the past year, National Grid recruited 160 trainees onto the apprentice, m m foundation engineer, graduate and student programmes in which the gas distribution and Property, plant and equipment 622 310 metering businesses participate.
National Grids UK Foundation Engineering Programme, Intangible assets 6 8 launched in early 2006, is designed to facilitate the entrance, training and progression of Capital investment 628 318 talented people into key engineering roles.
In conjunction with Aston University and Energy Utility Skills, the industry sector skills council in the UK, National Grid has also designed an Generating value from investments industry specific foundation degree.
This year, a return on investment measure is reported for the first time, the purpose of which is to allow National Grid Gas to monitor how it is performing in generating value from its Inclusion and diversity businesses and from the investments it makes.
Return on investment has been calculated Several employee interest networks have been established in National Grid, focusing on using the measure developed by Ofgem when setting transmission price controls for the 5 year gender, ethnicity and faith and disability.
The networks provide a mutually beneficial relationship period commencing 1 April 2007.
If the NTS business performs in accordance with Ofgems for our employees by providing opportunities for employees to network with each other and projections, then it would earn an average annual return of 5.05% using Ofgems measure.
For senior management, to attain career building skills and to provide a better understanding of 2006 07, the NTS business return on investment using this measure is 7.6%, compared with National Grids businesses.
These returns are higher than Ofgems projected return of 5.05%, due to operating costs savings achieved compared to Ofgems original projections for those two years.
Working groups have been established with senior executive sponsors focusing on recruitment Return on investment has declined between 2005 06 and 2006 07 due to increased capital and employee development, employee engagement, communications and measuring the investment which is discussed on pages 16 and 17. impact of inclusion and diversity policies.
National Grid has also initiated a field force pilot programme in the UK to explore the development of inclusion and diversity best practices The following table shows how return on investment has been calculated: examples that can be replicated across operational sites.
Years ended 31 March 2007 2006 At 31 March 2007, 20% of employees were female and 4.5% were from black and ethnic m m minority groups compared with 19.4% and 4.5% respectively at 31 March 2006.
1 NTS business adjusted operating profit 274 245 Excess of regulatory value depreciation over accounting depreciation and 4 23 Relationships amortisation Regulatory relationships Regulatory operating profit 249 251 The gas transmission business continue to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of the 2 Notional current taxation on a price control basis 35 43 gas transmission networks and in expanding those networks to meet new and changing Regulatory return 206 216 demand.
In addition, National Grid Gas seeks to maintain a professional approach with Ofgem 3 Estimated average regulatory value 2,825 2,552 in areas where there may be disagreement.
Return on investment regulatory return as a percentage of regulatory value 7.6% 8.1% Community investment 1 Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
2 Notional current taxation is an allocation of the actual current tax for the year, excluding prior year items and adjusted for the effect of Community investment takes place on a company basis and further information can be found in actual interest payments being less than would result from the gearing level assumed by Ofgem when setting the price control.
the National Grid Gas Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07.
3 Regulatory values have been restated from previous estimates to reflect the outcome of the extension price control review for the year to 31 March 2008 and are average values for each year.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 17 Responsibility Financial results Climate change Financial results and position are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting National Grid as a whole has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 60% Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union.
against a verified baseline, in advance of the target date of 2050 set by the UK Government.
The financial results of the gas transmission businesses are presented within continuing The vast majority of emissions relating to the gas transmission businesses fall within Scope 1 of operations.
the World Resources Institute greenhouse gas protocol initiative.
This comprises direct Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures emissions such as those from gas fuelled compressor engines.
Scope 2 emissions comprise indirect emissions, such as those resulting from purchased electricity.
In considering the financial performance of regulatory businesses, each primary financial measure of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year is analysed into two Emissions made by National Grid Gas cannot all be attributed to specific businesses, but during components, comprising firstly business performance which excludes exceptional items and 2006 07, Scope 1 emissions from operating the NTS and LNG storage facilities amounted to remeasurements and secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items some 1,001 million tonnes CO equivalent, a 24.6% reduction compared with emissions of and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of business performance used by 2 1,327 million tonnes in 2005 06. management to monitor financial performance, as they are considered to distort the comparability of reported financial performance from year to year.
Information on the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions made by National Grid Gas can be found in its Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07.
Measures of business performance are referred to in these regulatory accounting statements as adjusted profit measures in order to clearly distinguish them from the comparable total profit Protecting the environment measures of which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings differ from total operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year All employees work to certified ISO 14001 environmental management systems.
respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and remeasurements.
The number of significant environmental incidents in 2006 07 arising directly from gas transmission operations was 15.
In 2005 06, Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the there was one incident.
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, and are relevant to an understanding of our financial incidents.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation Business ethics as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains or In March 2007, National Grid published its Standards of Ethical Business Conduct, replacing its losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses UK Code of Business Conduct.
The new Standard provides a common set of practical recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial guidelines to ensure behaviours are lawful, policies and licences are complied with, and the values set out in National Grids Framework for Responsible Business and its core values of instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
respect, integrity and ownership are followed.
Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total profit measures, as they exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Management believes that in separately presenting financial performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items and remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
18 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for monitoring financial performance The principal factors causing the movements between 2005 06 and 2006 07 are summarised and in communicating financial performance to investors in external presentations and below: announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, budgets and forecasts are Revenue Operating costs Operating profit m m m primarily prepared on the basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
2005 06 results 743 463 280 Management compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures Add back 2005 06 exceptional items - - - through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a 2005 06 adjusted results 743 463 280 component of overall financial performance.
LNG storage auction revenue 13 - 13 Timing of recoveries 28 - 28 Operating financial performance Gas purchases - 26 26 Years ended 31 March Transmission owner depreciation - 9 9 2007 2006 Other 17 8 m m 2006 07 adjusted results 729 421 308 Revenue 729 743 2006 07 exceptional items - 5 5 421 Operating costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 463 2006 07 results 729 426 303 Adjusted operating profit 308 280 5 Exceptional items - The 14 million decrease in gas transmission business revenue comparing 2006 07 with Total operating profit 303 280 2005 06 was due to relative timing of recoveries of allowed revenues, with repayment in 2006 07 of amounts over-recovered in 2005 06, partly offset by an increase in revenues from Revenue, operating costs and operating profit LNG storage auctions.
The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and operating profit by can be summarised as follows by regulatory business: Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, fell by 42 million in 2006 07 compared to 2005 06.
This was primarily due to a 26 million fall in gas purchases, mainly due to the warmer Revenue Operating costs Operating profit weather resulting in lower volumes, and a 9 million reduction in transmission owner m m m depreciation, as a result of accelerated asset write-downs in 2005 06.
2005 06 results 743 463 280 Add back 2005 06 exceptional items - - - The 28 million increase in adjusted operating profit comparing 2006 07 with 2005 06 reflects 2005 06 adjusted results 743 463 280 the movement in revenue and operating costs, excluding exceptional items, as described NTS 32 6129 above.
LNG storage 14 15 1 The 5 million exceptional charge in 2006 07 arises from the establishment of a shared fide-minimis activities 2 2 - services function and the implementation of a review of NTS business processes.
Other activities 1 1 - Inter-business trading 1 1 - Operating profit was 23 million higher than 2005 06, as a result of the 28 million increase in 2006 07 adjusted results 729 421 308 adjusted operating profit and the 5 million increase in exceptional charges.
2006 07 exceptional items - 5 5 2006 07 results 729 426 303 Earnings from continuing operations Net finance costs and taxation largely comprise amounts relating to National Grid Gas as a whole, which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 37.
Adjusted earnings Years ended 31 March National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 19 tax credit in 2005 06 equivalent to 4%.
These prior year items arose from the settlement of 2007 2006 outstanding prior year tax issues.
m m Adjusted operating profit 308 280 A reconciliation of the main components giving rise to the difference between the relevant Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 55 48 effective tax rate and the UK standard corporation tax rate is shown in note 9 to the regulatory Adjusted profit before taxation 253 232 accounting statements.
Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 97 58 Adjusted profit from continuing operations 156 174 Profit for the year The gas transmission business profit for the year fell from 172 million in 2005 06 to 145 Earnings million in 2006 07 as a consequence of the above changes.
Years ended 31 March 2007 2006 Adjusted profit measures m m The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit 303 Total operating profit 280 measure in accordance with IFRS.
Net finance costs 63 52 Profit before taxation 240 228 a Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating profit Years ended 31 March Taxation 95 56 2007 2006 Profit from continuing operations 145 172 m m Adjusted operating profit 308 280 Net finance costs Exceptional operating items 5 - Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, as allocated to the gas transmission businesses, increased by 7 million from 2005 06 to 2006 07.
This was primarily Total operating profit 303 280 explained by an increase in average debt balances.
Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of then Income Statement, under the heading Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements Operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional finance costs allocated to the gas transmission businesses of 9 million in 2006 07 relate to the early repayment of debt.
There were no exceptional finance costs allocated to the b Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation gas transmission business in 2005 06.
Years ended 31 March 2007 2006 Financial remeasurements relate to allocated net gains on derivative financial instruments of 1 m m million, compared with allocated net losses of 4 million in 2005 06.
Adjusted profit before taxation 253 232 Exceptional operating items 5 - Taxation Exceptional finance costs 9 - A net charge of 95 million was allocated to the gas transmission businesses in 2006 07, Financial remeasurements 1 4 compared with 56 million in 2005 06.
This includes allocated net tax credits in respect of Total profit before taxation 240 228 exceptional items and remeasurements amounting to 2 million in both 2006 07 and 2005 06.
Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the Income Statement, under the heading Profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Excluding the effect of net tax credits on exceptional items and remeasurements, the effective tax rate for 2006 07 and 2005 06 was 38% and 25% respectively, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% for both years.
These effective tax rates reflected an allocated prior year tax charge in 2006 07 equivalent to an effective tax rate of 7% and an allocated prior year 20 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 c Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings profit for the year dividends, increased from 161 million in 2005 06 to 701 million in 2006 07.
Allocated inflows from additional net borrowings were 968 million in 2006 07 compared with 1,367 million in Years ended 31 March 2005 06.
2007 2006 m m Allocated net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt redemption costs, increased Adjusted earnings 156 174 from 61 million in 2005 06 to 88 million in 2006 07, due to higher average net debt.
Allocated 5 Exceptional operating items - exceptional debt redemption costs were 9 million in 2006 07 as a consequence of Exceptional finance costs 9 - restructuring the debt portfolio, compared with none in 2005 06.
Financial remeasurements 1 4 Tax on exceptional items and remeasurements 2 2 Dividends Earnings 145 172 Dividends in respect of the financial year The following table shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by National Grid Gas in Adjusted earnings is presented on the face of the Income Statement, under the heading Profit respect of the last two financial years and which have been allocated to the gas transmission for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items and remeasurements.
businesses as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 37.
These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect of such Cash flows dividends.
Cash flows from operating activities 2007 2006 Cash generated from operations for the gas transmission businesses was 406 million in m m 2006 07 compared with 351 million in 2005 06.
This included cash outflows relating to Interim 179 100 exceptional items of 2 million and 3 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows relating to Final - 425 tax paid, net cash inflow from operating activities was 406 million, compared with 176 million Total 179 525 in 2005 06.
In accordance with IFRS, dividends are reported in the financial statements for the year in In 2006 07, no corporate tax payments were allocated to gas transmission compared with an which they are approved.
As a consequence, the final dividend for 2005 06 is reported in the allocated payment of 175 million in 2005 06. current year.
Cash inflows from investing activities Cash outflows from investing activities for gas transmission fell from 1,317 million in 2005 06 to 681 million in 2006 07.
This was fall was primarily a result of an interest free loan in 2005 06 to National Grid Gass immediate parent company, National Grid Gas Holdings plc, of which 1,123 million was allocated to the gas transmission businesses.
This loan represented part of the 5,750 million cash received by National Grid Gas from the sales of four of four gas networks in June 2005.
Cash outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets increased to 561 million in 2006 07 from 182 million in 2005 06, as a result of the increase in capital investment.
Allocated cash outflows to acquire financial investments increased from 12 million in 2005 06 to 120 million in 2006 07.
Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities largely comprise cash flows of National Grid Gas as a whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 37.
Net cash inflows related to financing activities reduced from 1,206 million in 2005 06 to 267 million in 2006 07.
Allocated payments to providers of finance, in the form of net interest and National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 21 Gearing at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006, calculated as net debt at that date expressed as Financial position and financial a percentage of net debt plus net assets shown in the balance sheet, amounted to 51% and 31% respectively.
By comparison, the gearing ratio, adjusted for the inclusion of regulated management businesses at their estimated regulatory asset values adjusted gearing ratio, amounted to 45% at 31 March 2007 compared with 27% 31 March 2006.
The adjusted gearing ratio at 31 Going concern March 2006 has been restated to reflect the impact of the outcomes of the gas transmission Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that National Grid Gas has adequate resources price control review on estimates of regulatory asset values.
to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting statements.
National Grid Gas believes this adjusted ratio is a more relevant measure of gearing than one based on book values alone, because the book values do not reflect the economic value of the regulated business assets.
A reconciliation of the adjustments necessary to calculate adjusted Capital structure net assets is shown in the following table: Balance sheet The balance sheet of the gas transmission businesses at 31 March 2007 can be summarised 2007 2006 as follows: m m 1,768 Net assets per balance sheet 2,219 Assets Liabilities Net assets 730 m m m Adjustment for regulatory asset values 640 Property, plant and equipment and non-current 219 Deferred tax 192 intangible assets 2,831 - 2,831 Adjusted net assets 2,279 2,667 Other non-current assets and liabilities 1,589 149 1,440 The regulatory adjustments at 31 March 2006 have been restated as described above.
Current assets and liabilities 143 378 235 Deferred tax - 436 436 Equity shareholders funds Total before net debt 4,563 963 3,600 Equity shareholders funds fell from 2,219 million at 31 March 2006 to 1,768 million at 31 Net debt 223 2,055 1,832 March 2007.
The decrease was mainly explained by attributed equity dividends paid of 604 Total as at 31 March 2007 4,786 3,018 1,768 million being greater than the profit for the year to 31 March 2007 of 145 million.
Total as at 31 March 2006 4,309 2,090 2,219 Liquidity and treasury management The reduction in net assets from 2,219 million at 31 March 2006 to 1,768 million at 31 March Cash flow 2007 resulted from attributed dividends paid of 604 million partly offset by the profit for the Cash flows from National Grid Gass operations are largely stable over a period of years, but year of 145 million, changes in allocation of funding between National Grid Gass regulatory they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
National Grid Gass NTS operations are businesses of 2 million, net income recognised directly in equity of 3 million and other subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
Significant changes in changes in equity of 3 million.
volumes, for example as a consequence of weather conditions, can affect cash flows in those businesses, with abnormally mild or cold weather driving volumes down or up respectively.
Net debt and gearing Subject to this, cash flows are essentially stable.
Allocated net debt increased by 0.8 billion from 1.0 billion at 31 March 2006 to 1.8 billion at 31 March 2007, as a result of an increase in allocated borrowings of 0.9 billion, partly offset by Cash flow forecasting a 0.1 billion increase in allocated financial investments.
Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced frequently to assist in identifying the liquidity requirements of National Grid Gas.
The composition of net debt at 31 March 2007 is shown in note 26 to the regulatory accounting statements.
These forecasts are supplemented by a financial headroom position, details of which are supplied to the Finance Committee of the Board of National Grid plc regularly to demonstrate 22 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
National Grid Gas also maintains a minimum Borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2007 and allocated to the gas transmission businesses level of committed facilities in support of that objective.
amounting to 2,017 million 31 March 2006: 1,107 million.
The table in note 21 shows the expected maturity of these borrowings.
Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and Medium Term Note Programmes National Grid Gas has both committed and uncommitted facilities that are available for general Appropriate committed facilities are in place, such that management believes that the maturing corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2007, National Grid Gas plc had a US$2.5 billion US amounts in respect of its contractual obligations, as shown in Commitments and Contingencies, can be met from these facilities, operating cash flows and other refinancings Commercial Paper Programme unutilised and a US$1.25 billion Euro Commercial Paper that can reasonably be expected to be able to secure in the future.
National Grid Gass financial Programme unutilised : and National Grid Gas plc and National Grid Gas Holdings plc had a joint Euro Medium Term Note Programme of 10 billion 5.9 billion unissued.
position and expected future operating cash flows are such that it can borrow on the wholesale capital and money markets and most of its borrowings are through public bonds and commercial paper.
At 31 March 2007, the National Grid Gas plc had 840 million of long term committed facilities undrawn and around 840 million of uncommitted borrowing facilities undrawn.
Surplus funds are placed on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed deposits In addition to the above facilities, National Grid Gas plc signed a loan agreement in 2006 07 for that are invested with approved banks and counterparties.
Details relating to cash, short-term 370m with the European Investment Bank.
At 31 March 2007, 190m of this remained to be investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2007 are shown in notes 15 and 20 to the regulatory accounting statements.
drawn and this remaining 190m was drawn in May 2007.
Regulatory restrictions As of 31 March 2007, the long-term senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings respectively provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors S&P and Fitch were as follows: As part of National Grid Gass regulatory arrangements, its operations are subject to a number of restrictions on the way it can operate.
These include a regulatory ring-fence that require it to Moodys A2 P1 maintain adequate financial resources and restricts its ability to transfer funds or levy charges between itself and other companies in the National Grid group of companies.
Standard & Poors S&P A A1 Fitch A F1 Treasury policy The funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas is carried out on its behalf by In connection with the proposed acquisition of KeySpan Corporation by National Grid, National a central department operating under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National Grid Gass ratings have been moved to creditwatch with negative implications by S&P.
The Finance Committee, a committee of the Board of National Grid plc, is responsible Moodys have placed National Grid Gass ratings on review for downgrade and Fitch have for regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, placed its ratings on rating watch negative.
the authority for which may be delegated.
National Grid plc has a Treasury function that raises funding and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk for National Grid Gas.
It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around National Grid Gas plc that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
At these ratings, it should There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
The Finance Committees of have good access to the capital and money markets for future funding when necessary.
both National Grid plc and of National Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
The main risks arising from National Grid Gass financial activities are set out below, as are the The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are policies for managing these risks, which are agreed and reviewed by the Board of National Grid managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or plc and the Finance Committee of that Board.
products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Refinancing risk management The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy guidelines set by the Board of The Board of National Grid plc controls refinancing risk mainly by limiting the amount of National Grid plc.
Derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of financing obligations both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
the business operational requirements and the policy regarding their use is explained below.
This policy is intended to prevent National Grid and its subsidiaries from having an excessively large amount of debt to refinance in a given time-frame.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 23 Interest rate risk management manage the currency composition of borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate movements.
Certain agreements are combined foreign currency and interest rate swap Interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of fixed and transactions.
Such agreements are known as cross-currency swaps.
floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The interest rate risk management policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs and changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with large movements National Grid Gas enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest rate risk on short-term in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed pre-set limits.
debt and money market investments.
Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an interest rate that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of specified maturity, starting at Some of National Grid Gass bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to a future specified date.
changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
Management believe that these bonds provide a good hedge for revenues and National Grid Gass regulatory asset values that are also RPIlinked under its price control formulae.
More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in note 16 to the regulatory accounting statements.
The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by comparing the actual total financing costs of our debt with those of a passively-managed Valuation and sensitivity analysis benchmark portfolio.
More information on the interest rate profile of debt is included in note 17 The fair value of debt and derivative instruments are calculated by discounting all future cash to the regulatory accounting statements.
flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.
The market yield curve for each currency is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case Foreign exchange risk management of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to National Grid Gas a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange calculate fair value.
transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps and currency swaps are a transactions six to twelve months in advance.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or standard market methodology.
These techniques do not take account of the credit quality of purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
either party, but this is not considered to be a significant factor, unless there is a material deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
Counterparty risk management Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative In relation to swaptions, these are only used for hedging purposes with a European style exercise.
As a consequence, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is considered to instruments.
The Finance Committee of National Grid plc has agreed a policy for managing be sufficiently accurate for the purpose of providing fair value information in relation to these such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, approvals and monitoring procedures.
More sophisticated valuation models exist but National Grid Gas does not multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting arrangement believe it is necessary to employ these models, given the extent of its activities in this area.
can be put in place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At the present time, we use standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which For debt and derivative instruments held, National Grid Gas utilises a sensitivity analysis provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement with a technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other than trading Details of the sensitivity of the income statement and equity to changes in the UK Retail Prices As part of its business operations, National Grid Gas is exposed to risks arising from Index and UK interest rates are set out in note 17 d to the regulatory accounting statements.
fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
Financial instruments are used, including Under the assumptions set out in note 17 d, a 0.50% change in the UK Retail Prices Index derivatives, to manage exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
would affect the income statement by 3 million, but would have no effect on equity, while a National Grid Gass policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions 0.50% change in UK interest rates would affect the income statement by 4 million and equity can, to varying degrees, carry both counterparty and market risk.
National Grid Gas enters into interest rate swaps to manage the composition of floating and fixed rate debt and so hedge the exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements.
In addition, it enters into bought and written option contracts on interest rate swaps.
These contracts are known as swaptions.
National Grid Gas also enters into foreign currency swaps to 24 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Commodity contracts Retirement arrangements Commodity derivatives The substantial majority of employees of the gas transmission businesses are members of the In the normal course of business, the NTS business is party to commodity derivatives.
These National Grid UK Pension Scheme the Scheme which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company of National Grid Gas.
have included gas futures, gas options and gas forwards that are used to manage commodity prices associated with gas delivery operations.
This includes the buying back of capacity rights already sold in accordance with gas transporter licence and Uniform Network Code obligations.
The Scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an integral part of National Grid As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost Gass financial risk management policy.
At the core of this policy is a condition that it will engage in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within commodities and of the scheme to National Grid Gas, it accounts for the Scheme as if it were a defined financial markets to which it has a physical market exposure, in terms and volumes consistent contribution scheme and does not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the with its core business.
National Grid Gas does not issue, or intend to hold, derivative Scheme.
instruments for trading purposes, and holds such instruments consistent with its various licence The last completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was as at 31 March 2006.
concluded that the pre-tax deficit was 371 million 260 million net of tax in the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
Commodity trading As part of gas transmission operations, National Grid Gas is obliged to offer for sale, through a It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the March 2006 valuation will need series of auctions both shortand long-term, a predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the year at predefined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas transmission systems to be provided to the Scheme until the outcome of the interim actuarial assessment at 31 March 2007 is known.
At this point, National Grid will pay the gross amount of any deficit up to a capability is constrained, such that gas is prevented from entering the system for which entry maximum amount of 520 million 364 million net of tax into the scheme.
Until the 31 March capacity rights have been sold, then the NTS business is required to buy back those entry 2007 actuarial valuation has been completed, National Grid has arranged for banks to provide capacity rights sold in excess of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to the trustees of the Scheme with letters of credit.
The main conditions under which these letters reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity prices.
of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the Scheme, such as National Grid Gas becoming insolvent or National Grid failing to make agreed payments into Commitments and contingencies the fund.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of the Scheme, including Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March in respect of the gas transmission administrative expenses, are currently being made at a rate of 32.7% of pensionable payroll.
businesses are summarised in the table below: 2007 2006 National Grid Gas does not provide post-retirement benefits other than pensions.
m m Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided for 481 553 Related party transactions Total operating lease commitments 9 15 National Grid Gas provides services to and receives services from related parties.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the gas transmission businesses charged 2 million and received In addition, National Grid Gas has other commitments at 31 March 2007 of 213 million 2006: charges of 46 million from National Grid Gass related parties other than Directors and key 154 million which relate to the company and are not attributable to the regulatory businesses.
managers, compared with 2 million and 39 million respectively in 2005 06.
Information regarding obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefits is given Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 27 to the below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
Details of key management compensation are included within note 5 c to the regulatory accounting statements.
National Grid Gas proposes to meet all of its commitments from operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, future facilities and other financing that it reasonably expects to be able to secure in the future.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 25 Significant choices that National Grid Gas continues to make on an ongoing basis include the Accounting policies following: Basis of accounting Option Choice adopted The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2007 Presentation formats National Grid Gas uses the nature of expense method for income statements and 2006 and the financial position as at 31 March 2007 and 2006 of the regulatory businesses and totals its balance sheets to net assets and total equity.
They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with In the income statement, National Grid Gas presents subtotals of total International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and Choices permitted under IFRS remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income statement.
Since 1 April 2005, National Grid Gas has presented its regulatory accounting statements in Pensions National Grid Gas recognises transactions with the defined benefits section of accordance with IFRS.
It was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS the National Grid UK Pension Scheme as if it were a defined contribution and in addition it continues to choose from certain options that are available within accounting scheme, and does not recognise any of the scheme assets and liabilities or standards.
Capitalised interest Interest is capitalised into the cost of assets that National Grid Gas The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as constructs.
follows: Capital contributions Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Option Choice adopted Financial instruments National Grid Gas normally opts to apply hedge accounting in most Transition date The opening IFRS balance sheets were established as at 1 April 2004. circumstances where this is permitted.
Certain balances in National Grid Gass previous UK GAAP regulatory accounting statements were used as the basis for its opening IFRS balance sheets.
Segmental reporting Business combinations Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
As the results, assets and liabilities of the gas transmission businesses are reported separately Financial instruments National Grid Gas adopted IAS 39 on 1 April 2005.
As a consequence the in these regulatory accounting statements for each regulatory business, no further segmental opening balances at 1 April 2005 are presented using different accounting reporting is provided.
policies for financial instruments from those used for 2005 06 and 2006 07.
Carrying value of assets In most cases National Grid Gas used brought forward depreciated cost, as Critical accounting policies at transition adjusted for changes in accounting policies to conform to IFRS, to be the The application of accounting principles requires National Grid Gas to make estimates, opening carrying value under IFRS.
judgments and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue Share-based payments National Grid Gas recognised all active grants retrospectively.
and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an Cumulative translation National Grid Gas chose to present cumulative translation differences arising ongoing basis, estimates are evaluated using historical experience, consultation with experts differences since 1 April 2004 only.
and other methods that are considered reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the accounting policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
26 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 National Grid Gass critical accounting policies and accounting treatments for the gas Assets and liabilities Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative carried at fair value transmission businesses are considered to be: financial instruments, are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather than historical cost.
Attribution of revenues, Many of the amounts reported in these regulatory accounting statements The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are costs, assets, liabilities include or comprise amounts which are not directly attributable to the those of derivative financial instruments where market prices exist.
Other and equity to regulatory regulatory businesses concerned and which have been apportioned between derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, which businesses the regulatory businesses.
Significant judgement is exercised in determining include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and those bases of apportionment.
Where there is no reasonable basis of interest rates as well as equity prices.
apportionment, arbitrary bases have been adopted.
Hedge accounting National Grid Gas uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain Amounts determined by apportionment within these regulatory accounting economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates statements comprise net costs of 222 million included in the income or other factors that could affect either the value of National Grid Gass assets statements 2006: 162 million, assets of 1,876 million 2006: 1,917 or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
million and liabilities of 2,854 million 2006: 1,897 million.
Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be Estimated asset The reported amounts for amortisation of intangible fixed assets and accounted for using hedge accounting where National Grid Gas meet the economic lives depreciation of property, plant and equipment can be materially affected by relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing requirements.
If a the judgments exercised in determining their estimated economic lives.
hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be Intangible asset amortisation and depreciation of property, plant and recorded in the income statement immediately instead of being recognised in equipment amounted to 8 million and 90 million respectively in 2006 07 and the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense or by being offset by 8 million and 109 million respectively in 2005 06. adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
Carrying value of assets The carrying value of assets recorded in the balance sheets could be Pensions and potential for Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the Scheme were materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being required.
This accounting treatment is based on there Total assets at 31 March 2007 were 4,786 million, including 2,806 million of not being any contractual arrangements or a stated policy under which the property, plant and equipment, 25 million of other intangible assets and National Grid Gas is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
1,589 million owed by National Grid Gass immediate parent undertaking.
A change in these arrangements may lead to National Grid Gas recognising Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of an pension scheme.
asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the balance sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that Exceptional items and Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure remeasurements could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the asset or group of assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to apply basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an to those cash flows.
understanding of financial performance between periods.
Revenue accruals Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to Items of income or expense that are considered by management for customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
designation as exceptional items include such items as significant Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material period would have an impact on the reported results of National Grid Gas.
changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 38 million at 31 March 2007 recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of compared with 44 million at 31 March 2006. derivative financial instruments.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 27 Tax estimates Other interpretations National Grid Gass tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax IFRIC 5, IFRIC 6 and IFRIC 7 contain guidance on accounting for rates in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation decommissioning, restoration and environmental funds, for waste electrical requires National Grid Gas to take into account anticipated decisions of tax and electronic equipment and for subsidiaries in hyperinflationary economies.
authorities and estimate National Grid Gass ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
National Grid Gass estimates and Forthcoming changes in IFRS assumptions may differ from future events.
The following accounting standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted, but are expected to be adopted in future periods.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on reported results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Segment reporting IFRS 8 on segment reporting changes the requirements for segmental reporting.
Assuming that it is adopted by European Union, it will apply with Asset economic lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average effect from 1 April 2009.
If IFRS 8 had been adopted in 2006 07, there would would reduce the annual depreciation charge on property, plant and have been no change in business segments reported.
equipment by 2 million and the annual amortisation charge on intangible Service concessions IFRIC 12 on service concessions, effective from 1 April 2008, requires assets assets by 1 million.
operated on behalf of a public authority as a concession, where the asset Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2007 would reverts back to the public authority at the conclusion of the arrangement, to be recognised as a financial or intangible asset, depending on whether income is result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year of approximately 3 million net of tax.
recovered from the public authority or from users.
This is not expected to affect the majority of National Grid Gass assets and liabilities.
However, a full Assets carried at fair A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an value assessment of this interpretation has not yet been completed, so it is possible increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments that there may be an impact on assets and liabilities as a consequence of the of 1 million.
Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the Borrowing An amendment of IAS 23 on borrowing costs will require interest to be year ended 31 March 2007 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit costs capitalised into the cost of assets National Grid Gas constructs.
It already for the year would have been 12 million lower than that reported net of tax adopts this policy and so this will have no impact.
and net assets would have been 11 million higher.
Other interpretations IFRIC 8, IFRIC 9, IFRIC 10 and IFRIC 11 contain guidance on accounting for share-based exchange transactions, embedded derivatives, impairments in Accounting developments half yearly reports and share-based payments.
These interpretations are not New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2006 07 expected to have a material impact on National Grid Gass results, assets or In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with liabilities.
International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and interpretations applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2006.
The following amendments to standards and interpretations were adopted during 2006 07, none of which resulted in a material change to National Grid Gass consolidated results, assets or liabilities in 2006 07 or in those of previous periods.
Leases International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 4 on leases provides guidance on determining when other forms of contractual arrangements should also be accounted for as leases.
Financial instruments Amendments to IAS 39, IFRS 4, and IAS 21 allow for financial liabilities to be designated as fair value through profit and loss in certain circumstances, for certain financial guarantees to be recorded in the balance sheet at their fair value and permitted inter-company exchange gains and losses to be taken to equity reserves on consolidation in certain circumstances.
28 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07
