Our performance culture is driven from the top through our five business units and their experienced management teams The Northern Foods Operating board trying out some new sushi recipes, are from left to right: Kuldip Kular, Paul Kaye, Kieran Carolan, Graham Hunter, Jez Maiden, Stefan Barden and Julian Slade 08 Performance review Northern Foods plc Performance review The company has reached agreement to Profit before taxation and restructuring items Performance overview make a special pension contribution of for continuing operations improved to 40.0m Following a year of transition, 57.0m, funded from disposal proceeds.
With an effective tax rate in which we successfully completed Once the final special pension contribution of 20.3% 2005 06: 16.0%, earnings per share the disposal of businesses representing of 22.0m is made in June 2007, the groups for continuing operations before restructuring post retirement benefits deficit of 8.6m items increased by 14.8% to 6.52p 2005 06: 40% of total annual revenue, at 31 March 2007 is expected to have been 5.68p.
With restructuring items for continuing Northern Foods is a simpler, leaner eliminated measured under International operations after taxation of 3.9m 2005 06: and more competitive business.
Subject 11.6m, profit for the period for continuing to market conditions, no further special operations was 28.0m 2005 06: 16.1m.
We are building on a solid foundation, contributions will be required to fund the with a strong focus around our principal UK pension scheme.
As reported at the first half year, contribution five businesses and an experienced from discontinued businesses was significantly With common systems and service functions reduced, with profit from operations of 1.3m management team in place.
successfully established and delivering in the period prior to their sale 2005 06: significant cost and synergy benefits, we have 12.1m.
As a result, total group profit before The continuing business achieved a 21.2% increase in profit before tax.
This was driven adopted a simplified operating structure for taxation and restructuring items reduced to our five retained business units.
With significant by reduced financing costs, resulting from both the successful disposal programme business we have strong leading brands or high restructuring costs in the disposed businesses, growth, retailer own brand ROB positions.
including a book loss on disposal, the group and excellent cash management.
Profit from operations was maintained at the prior year Each business offers opportunities to capitalise had an overall loss for the period of 22.5m on selective market growth, margin 2005 06: loss 5.0m.
We have made encouraging progress in improving profitability in our Chilled division improvement and cost optimisation.
Each business is led by a dedicated management Free cash flow was 83.0m 2005 06: 30.6m.
with its operating margin markedly improved to 5.0% 2005 06: 2.9%.
Corporate centre team and, by devolving decision making The strong focus on cash generation saw to these teams while retaining appropriate capital expenditure reduced to 29.5m costs which are allocated to divisions have been reduced by over 9m during the year, corporate governance, we are sharpening 2005 06: 54.0m, only 52% of depreciation decision making, improving responsiveness 2005 06: 84%.
Net debt more than halved a significant component of the target savings identified at the start of the year.
to customer needs and streamlining costs.
to 174.2m 2005 06: 363.1m, despite special pension contributions paid of 53.0m.
These improvements in performance have Summary financial performance The group has balanced top line revenue Key programme delivery been offset by a year on year decline in the profitability of the Frozen and Bakery divisions.
growth with opportunities to reduce costs, In the year, we delivered against each of the improve margin and generate cash.
Continuing four key programmes announced in May 2006: While we continued to deliver good growth in Pizza, driven by our market leading Goodfellas revenue increased to 888.5m 2005 06: 862.0m, with underlying revenue up 3.1%, Business disposals: completed ahead of brand, the Biscuits business, in particular, has continued to underperform.
driven by a return to growth in the attractive the targets for both value and timescale, chilled market.
As expected, full year operating we disposed of five businesses which were Our renewed focus on cash management margin at 6.6% was slightly below the prior non-core, operated in lower relative margin year margin of 6.8% with the second half year categories or which required significant has delivered a strong cash performance with improved free cash flow and, together with ahead of the first half H2 operating margin : restructuring.
The sale of NFT, our chilled 7.1% 2005 06: 7.2%, reflecting our seasonal distribution business, was concluded in disposal proceeds, net debt more than halved.
This will allow future growth through cautious bias to the winter period.
Full year profit from August 2006 and chilled Pastry, Cakes, operations was maintained at 58.2m, in line Speciality bread and Flour milling in investment in existing capacity and selective acquisition.
The disposed businesses profit from operations was 1.3m in the year up to the date of disposal.
Gross disposal proceeds were 211.2m: 888.5m 15.5% 83.0m Continuing revenue increased to RONA return on net assets Free cash flow increased to 888.5m 2005 06: 862.0m up to 15.5% 2005 06: 14.3% 83.0m 2005 06: 30.6m Northern Foods plc Performance review 09 Chilled simplification: this programme Key performance indicators Operating margin & RONA has begun to address underperformance Alongside profit and debt, the group uses Profit from operations before restructuring in this core business, as demonstrated several financial key performance indicators items for continuing operations was in line by an improvement in operating margin KPIs to measure progress, as follows: with prior year at 58.2m 2005 06: 58.2m.
A wide range of A strong performance in Chilled was offset initiatives are reducing complexity, through by a decline in Frozen and Bakery.
All three product rationalisation, standardisation KPI 2006 07 2005 06 divisions benefited from savings in corporate of production between plant facilities, central costs and a lower pension charge.
Revenue growth streamlining of low volume production underlying 3.1% 2.9% runs and ongoing overhead cost reduction: Operating margin reduced slightly to 6.6% Operating margin 6.6% 6.8% 2005 06: 6.8%.
Following relatively benign Return on net assets Reduced central costs: the transition raw material price volatility conditions, RONA 15.5% 14.3% to a core focused group has supported the second half saw a return to rising prices Free cash flow 83.0m 30.6m a 9m reduction in corporate central for several key commodities and ingredients.
Debt ratio 1.8 times 2.5 times costs during 2006 07.
Non-essential Given very limited input cost recovery through Return on invested costs have been eliminated and a number increased selling prices, the group has focused capital ROIC 7.8% 8.4% of non-strategic services outsourced.
on improved productivity and commercial The adoption of a flatter business structure innovation.
A structured programme of has enabled elimination of the divisional value analysis to reduce costs has included Each KPI is defined and assessed within this management tier.
Further cost savings improved sourcing, investment in efficiency review.
Non-financial KPIs are featured in have been identified, once transition orientated capital projects and outsourcing the Corporate responsibility report.
support agreements providing services of non-strategic activities.
to the divested businesses end, allowing Revenue delivery of the total target set of 12m In addition to improving operating margin, The group pursues selective revenue increase over two years: each business is targeted to improve its through targeting market growth and innovation.
The combination of these We pursue growth only in areas where margin Cash and capital management: excellent is measured through return on net assets is enhanced.
Unprofitable business is exited progress has been made in embedding RONA profit from operations divided through selective range rationalisation.
Each business by average operating assets invested in the has focused on driving cash flow, focusing business.
RONA improved from 14.3% to Continuing revenue increased to 888.5m on essential capital investment, eliminating 15.5%, reflecting a reduction in operating 2005 06: 862.0m with underlying revenue excess inventory, reducing overdue assets through reduced capital investment growth of 3.1%, although growth rates varied receivables, optimising supplier terms, and working capital.
Underlying volumes and exploring the sale of unrequired assets.
grew by 3.1% while average sales prices across This has driven a significant reduction in the group remained flat.
The overall market working capital, capital spend and interest remained highly competitive and only limited charges compared to the previous year.
price increases were delivered to recover rising input costs.
Sales to the groups top five customers by value represent 76% 2005 06: 77% of total revenue.
We delivered against each of our four key programmes: Business disposals Reduced central costs Chilled simplification Cash and capital management 10 Performance review Northern Foods plc Profit from continuing operations Sale of the chilled Distribution business Net finance costs before restructuring items completed in August 2006 for gross proceeds decreased by 7.0m to 18.2m 2005 06: of 51.2m, including 6.7m in loan notes 25.2m, reflecting strong cash generation repayable within twelve months.
Disposal of from the combination of completion of the the remaining four discontinued businesses disposal programme and successful cash completed in January 2007 for 160.0m in management across the group.
As a result, cash, following shareholder approval.
profit before taxation and restructuring items for continuing operations increased by 21.2% A restructuring charge of 56.3m 2005 06: to 40.0m 2005 06: 33.0m.
The effective 45.5m in the discontinued businesses taxation rate increased to 20.3% 2005 06: comprised a profit of 2.4m 2005 06: 45.5m 16.0% with a benefit from the successful charge from operations, with a 19.0m net resolution of previous tax computations offset gain arising from the fire in Speciality bread, by an additional provision for tax charges.
offset by 16.6m of rationalisation charges, primarily in chilled Pastry and Cakes, and a The charge for restructuring items before book loss of 58.7m 2005 06: nil on the taxation for continuing operations was 5.6m business disposals.
The rationalisation charge 2005 06: 15.7m, reflecting significantly comprised 11.6m in cash and 5.0m in lower levels of rationalisation within the more non-cash items.
stable retained businesses, primarily in central cost reduction and a reduction in the number The loss for the period from discontinued of Frozen manufacturing facilities, partly operations was 50.5m 2005 06: 21.1m loss.
funded by a 2.5m profit on sale of land.
The charge for restructuring items comprised Loss for the period 3.6m in cash and 2.0m in non-cash items.
Total group loss for the period was 22.5m 2005 06: 5.0m.
Adjusted EPS increased Profit for the period from continuing by 14.8% to 6.52 pence 2005 06: 5.68 pence.
Including restructuring items and discontinued operations, basic EPS was a loss of 4.60 pence Profit from discontinued operations 2005 06: loss 1.03 pence.
Profit before taxation and restructuring items for the discontinued operations was 1.3m Dividend 2005 06: 12.1m.
The chilled Distribution Subject to shareholder approval, the final and Flour milling businesses continued dividend of 2.75 pence per share 2005 06: to perform well: however, profitability 0.85 pence per share is payable on 24 August was significantly reduced in chilled Pastry, 2007 to shareholders on the register at 27 July Cakes and Speciality bread.
In line with the rebasing of the dividend bread business suffered a major fire at its last year, the total dividend payable in respect Sheffield facility in July 2006, with the of 2006 07 is 4.25 pence per share 2005 06: resultant loss claim settled with insurers for 4.25 pence per share.
This represents adjusted 34.0m including self-insurance of 4.0m in EPS cover of 1.53 times, supported by the November 2006 of which 30.0m principally strong cash generation of the group.
Future relating to the reinstatement of the plant dividend growth will be driven by performance was transferred to the new owner on disposal.
improvement, with dividends covered between 1.5 times and 2 times adjusted EPS and fully covered by free cash flow in the medium term.
Continuing revenue Profit from operations by division by division Chilled 50.3% Chilled 38.2% Frozen 27.5% Frozen 32.6% Bakery 22.2% Bakery 29.2% Chilled 50.3% Chilled 38.2% Frozen 27.5% Frozen 32.6% Bakery 22.2% Bakery 29.2% Northern Foods plc Performance review 11 446.7m 5.0% 22.2m Continuing revenue up 7.4% to Continuing operating margin Continuing profit from 446.7m 2005 06: 416.1m 5.0% 2005 06: 2.9% operations up 82.0% to 22.2m 2005 06: 12.2m M&S nutritionally balanced Hoisin Duck & Noodles 12 Performance review Northern Foods plc Chilled We made encouraging progress in 13.1% improving profitability and margin Continuing RONA more than in our Chilled division doubled to 13.1% 2005 06: 6.4% Northern Foods plc Performance review 13 We search the world for great food ideas and are passionate about the quality of ingredients we use Tiger Prawns one of the key ingredients in many of our recipes 14 Performance review Northern Foods plc The Ready meals business has made initial Comprising two continuing progress in the first year of its simplification Markets: businesses Ready meals and and profit improvement programme.
It is Sandwiches & Salads the division addressing a high cost to serve which has Ready meals delivered underlying revenue growth reflected excessive complexity and cost across a fragmented product range and of 7.5% on continuing revenue Sandwiches & Salads manufacturing base.
has experienced a long term reduction in its Average selling prices were 1.0% share of existing customers trade.
The Ready meals team has focused on stabilising sales higher, while volumes grew across volumes, securing new customer business, both businesses.
optimising the manufacturing footprint based around centres of excellence specialising in Continuing profit from operations for individual product areas, removing non-value The Sandwiches & Salads business continued the Chilled division increased by 82.0% to added cost, and improving prices where this to perform strongly, building on excellent 22.2m 2005 06: 12.2m.
sales and improved operational efficiency.
improvement in profitability was achieved Underlying revenues rose 8.1%, benefiting through a combination of growth, innovation Underlying revenues increased by 6.5% in from consumer requirements for convenience, and cost reduction.
The division also benefited Ready meals, with the fourth quarter seeing a healthier eating positioning and good most from the reduction in corporate central growth with all customers, regaining our demand during the warm summer period.
The improved profitability, number one market position.
An active With further growth as customers expand together with greater control over capital innovation programme included the their convenience space, investment in investment and working capital, delivered an introduction of a range of nutritionally selective capacity expansion will occur in improved RONA of 13.1% 2005 06: 6.4%.
balanced ready meals, soups and organic a careful and targeted way, in order to ensure vegetable accompaniments.
Excellent repeat adequate returns are achieved.
Operating margin improved to 5.0% purchase patterns allow us to demonstrate the 2005 06: 2.9%.
Having suffered from value we deliver to our customers and In the sandwiches market, value for money, a high cost to serve in very competitive consumers alike.
At the same time, the ingredient quality and visual perception are market conditions, the division has begun consolidation of ready meal production onto key consumer requirements.
Premium ranges to target efficiencies, rationalise unprofitable the retained sites following the disposals will are also expanding and there is an increasing products and deliver better value for allow greater efficiency, as well as improved drive to maximise freshness across the product its superior service and product quality.
quality, to be delivered from a smaller asset range.
We continue to drive improved cost While these programmes are ongoing, base.
Once operating performance improves, efficiency from our key manufacturing facilities.
the initial benefits are visible and encouraging.
selective further capacity additions will be carefully considered.
Good sandwich demand was complemented The discontinued businesses chilled Pastry by growth in both wet and prepared salads, and chilled Distribution delivered a profit There remains much work to do within this the former including products such as from operations of 1.1m 2005 06: 5.5m business, including continuing to fulfil premium pasta salads and the latter, salads prior to disposal, on sales of 175.5m customer needs in a highly competitive and as meal solutions.
unconsolidated market, but selective growth, customer service responsive to sudden demand for high quality premium food and improvements in the weather, this growing opportunities to improve manufacturing and business focuses on premium products, supply chain efficiency, bode well for the combining indulgence with the inherently ongoing recovery programme.
healthy appeal of the sector.
This business also produces ROB chilled Pizza and Sushi, with the UK chilled pizza market overtaking the frozen pizza market in scale and increased consumer interest in sushi.
Sushi Wraps Soup These Californian rolls and Salmon Nigiri This Tesco Hoisin Duck Wrap is just one of We think we make the best tasting soup we make for M&S are perfectly aligned the many wraps we make to complement in the market, including this M&S Tomato with healthy eating trends.
our classic triangle sandwiches and rolls.
Northern Foods plc Performance review 15 244.5m 7.8% 19.0m Revenue up 2.7% to 244.5m Operating margin 7.8% Profit from operations 2005 06: 238.1m 2005 06: 9.6% down 17.0% at 19.0m 2005 06: 22.9m Two choices from the Goodfellas Solos range, Speciale left and BBQ Chicken right 16 Performance review Northern Foods plc Frozen We continue to deliver solid 15.4% margins, and we see potential for RONA declined to 15.4% growth in sales and profitability 2005 06: 18.1% Northern Foods plc Performance review 17 A great topping is at the heart of a good pizza.
Vine tomatoes are one of our favourite ingredients Vine tomatoes add great flavour to our pizzas 18 Performance review Northern Foods plc Pizza continued to achieve good growth, with With strong brands and leading revenue 7.5% higher, as the Goodfellas brand Markets: positions in several markets, the successfully built on its market leadership in division delivered steady growth in the UK and Irish market.
The Goodfellas brand Pizza the year with revenue of 244.5m continued to consolidate its position, through range extension, responding to healthier eating 2005 06: 238.1m and underlying Fish & Vegetables trends by reducing overall fat and salt content, revenue up 2.6%.
Our leadership Pastry removing hydrogenated vegetable oils HVOs in Pizza is supported by strong Meat & Meat-free and developing a lighter eat, while continuing to deliver superb restaurant quality products.
local positions in Fish & Vegetables.
Solos continued to grow in the convenient, Only the Pastry and Meat grill single eat segment and was named the fastest categories have disappointed.
growing brand of 2006 by The Grocer magazine.
Although some volume was recovered through Average selling prices were 0.5% higher with Leadership in Pizza was supported by the the successful launch of the brand into chilled overall volumes increasing by 2.1%.
Continuing market leading Donegal Catch brand in Fish retail, margins are significantly lower in this profit from operations for the Frozen division and the Green Isle vegetable brand.
Similarly, the own label and co-pack decreased 17.0% to 19.0m 2005 06: 22.9m.
Catch drove strong revenue growth in Ireland, pastry business suffered, as retailers and This reflected a reduction in profitability in up 20%, with range extensions including branded producers reduced inventories.
the struggling Pastry and Meat grill categories.
unbreaded fish fillets and recipe ideas, as By contrast, a robust performance was consumer demand for fish continues to grow, The Meat & Meat-free business continued delivered in Pizza and Fish & Vegetables.
Delivering its strategy to move demand progressively The difficult trading backdrop in Pastry and ongoing manufacturing efficiency is also key from declining sales of meat products into Meat grills impacted the divisional operating and 2006 saw the closure of the Boyle facility the growing meat-free arena.
Since the launch margin which declined to 7.8% 2005 06: in Ireland, allowing breading operations to be of the Grassingtons Food Co. brand in January 9.6%, also reflecting the impact of increased rationalised onto one site.
The Green Isle brand 2006, our Meat-free market share has reached volumes through promotional activity, and 8 grew 7% within the Irish market.
Nevertheless, it will take time for the RONA declined to 15.4% 2005 06: 18.1%.
Meat-free brand to fully replace the decline Within the division, the frozen Pastry and in sales and profitability in the meat grills area: Meat grill businesses disappointed.
Hollands consequently we continue to support product saw continued decline in sales in the brands and brand development in the latter category.
core fish shop and frozen retail distribution channels, which were further impacted by the hot summer.
Retail margins were impacted by significant promotional discounting.
Grassingtons Food Co. Pizza Donegal Catch This vegetable Quarter Pounder from We worked with the head chef at the Our market leading Donegal Catch brand, our Grassingtons brand is one of Michelin starred La Bottega dei 30 in Italy available across Ireland, brings consumers a range of frozen meat-free snacks, to create the Goodfellas La Bottega range a range of frozen fish ideas including meal accompaniments and main meals.
100% Natural Fillets of Salmon lightly dusted in BBQ spices.
Northern Foods plc Performance review 19 197.3m 8.6% 17.0m Continuing revenue declined Continuing operating margin Continuing profit from operations by 5.1% to 197.3m declined to 8.6% down 26.4% to 17.0m 2005 06: 207.8m 2005 06: 11.1% 2005 06: 23.1m The Matthew Walker pudding perfect for celebrating Christmas 20 Performance review Northern Foods plc Bakery We are going back to our roots and 20.4% investing in our traditional strengths Continuing RONA declined and values to reinvigorate our Foxs to 20.4% 2005 06: 25.4% and Matthew Walker brands Northern Foods plc Performance review 21 Great biscuits need great chocolate at Foxs we use lots of it to coat our biscuits Smooth milk chocolate few people can resist this most indulgent of ingredients 22 Performance review Northern Foods plc Continuing profit from operations for the In recent years, the Bakery division Bakery division declined by 26.4% to 17.0m Markets: has been a key profit generator 2005 06: 23.1m.
Both businesses suffered for the group.
However, from some profit erosion, although the largest Biscuits the second half of the prior year, impact was in Biscuits.
Likewise, operating margin declined to 8.6% 2005 06: 11.1%, market conditions have been Puddings impacted by a loss of volume in Biscuits, difficult for most of the divisional which reduced overall efficiency due to the operations and profitability high operational leverage of the business, and the impact of increasing commodity costs.
Action is in hand to reduce costs and improve promotional spend effectiveness.
Reduced As a result, the division was streamlined capital investment helped limit the decline during the year, with the sale of three in RONA to 20.4% 2005 06: 25.4%.
Production businesses including the loss making Cakes improvements at the three biscuits sites business.
This has allowed management to The discontinued businesses delivered a profit included commissioning of a new 5m high focus on stabilising the performance of the from operations of 0.2m 2005 06: 6.6m speed automated production line at the Batley core Biscuits business, including the key prior to disposal on revenue of 141.9m facility.
Further small scale capital improvements Foxs brand, and to explore opportunities 2005 06: 244.6m.
are targeted to improve cost efficiency, to grow the niche Puddings business, which coupled with overhead cost reduction has year round production for the seasonal Biscuits performance gradually stabilised as to aid profitability.
the year progressed, despite adverse impacts teams now focus on three different segments on volume from the hot summer following organised around our Foxs branded all year The continuing businesses experienced a weak 2005 06 exit.
Underlying revenue round products, our seasonal ranges best overall revenue decline to 197.3m 2005 06: declined by 5.9% in the year, reflecting known under the Foxs Creations name, and 207.8m.
Underlying revenue was down a decline in Foxs key sectors of everyday ROB.
Each of these has different consumer, by 5.1% in the full year, although, following biscuits and chocolate biscuit bars.
Brand customer and supply chain requirements.
a drop of 9.2% in the first half, this decline performance in these core segments improved decelerated in the second half to 1.8%, during the second half and our share of these Our Puddings business had another good as market share in the Biscuits business was core segments ended the year ahead of prior Christmas and maintained clear market stabilised and Puddings delivered a steady 13 year at 9.6%.
leadership in this niche sector.
Average selling interest in premium products saw the launch prices were 2.1% lower, reflecting the impact The second half year saw investment of a wide range of extremely high quality own of heavy promotion in the biscuit market, behind the Foxs brand, including new label puddings, both for lovers of traditional in spite of increasing commodity prices.
product development such as the launch recipes and for those seeking alternatives such of our Naturally Foxs range and a new as nut-free or gluten-free puddings.
Building premium range of Delicious Cookies.
These on its strong position, Christmas 2007 will were supported by prime time TV advertising see us test market the Matthew Walker brand.
and a packaging refresh which successfully This will create an exciting premium branded helped to build product trial.
These initiatives consumer offering to sit alongside our existing are helping to offset the impact of continued ROB range and the foodservice and export aggressive promotional activity in the overall range of Christmas puddings.
market and continued increases in raw material costs, particularly impacting flour, Biscuits Retailer Own Brand Naturally Foxs Matthew Walker Extremely Chocolatey Milk and White Launched to meet growing consumer This year sees us build on extensive expertise Chocolate Rounds for M&S one of our demand for natural, wholesome ingredients, to create the new premium Matthew Walker most popular Retailer Own Brand lines.
this range of traditionally baked biscuit recipes Christmas pudding brand.
includes Dark Chocolate Macadamia Nut, and Wholemeal Yorkshire Shortbread.
13 Internal estimates Northern Foods plc Performance review 23 Capital management 8.4%, benefiting from lower average invested committed facilities are a 2010 460m Embedding a culture of cash and capital capital as a result of the recent disposal but revolving facility and Senior loan notes management across the business has required reduced by the lower level of group profit.
20122017 US$155m and 54.3m private each business to assess its capital requirements.
Part of the latter is Limited revenue growth, combined with Pensions repayable at face value in 2007 if proceeds rationalisation of unprofitable products, has Within its defined benefit pension schemes, from the business disposals have not enabled a reduced capital programme to be Northern Foods has been working closely with been reinvested in acquisitions or capital delivered, at just 29.5m 2005 06: 54.0m.
the trustee to increase protection of member investment.
The facilities remain committed While opportunities exist for selective capacity benefits at an affordable cost for the company and available subject to certain conditions, expansion in growth markets, capital expenditure and its shareholders.
Significant progress has which are in line with typical commercial in existing products and markets is expected been made towards achieving this, as follows: borrowing arrangements.
The principal to remain at or below depreciation over the conditions require sufficient coverage of next two years.
In addition, working capital Future service accrual following closure the last twelve month EBITDA to each of levels have been reviewed in inventories, of the principal UK scheme to new net debt and interest charge covenants, accounts receivable and accounts payable, entrants in March 2005, the company which are tested half yearly see debt ratio and working capital reduced by 33.6m during cash contribution rate is 9.9% of payroll, under KPIs above.
Surplus a cash cost in 2006 07 of 14.0m unproductive assets were identified and 2005 06: 21.6m.
The future cost Interest risk management balances debt 6.7m of cash was received, in addition of delivering benefits is currently under financing as a tool to improve returns to the business disposal programme.
review in light of current benefit costs through leverage in the capital structure and the scheme investment strategy: with the potential for higher interest rates The success of our approach is demonstrated to impact profits negatively.
Board policy by the groups strong free cash flow, the cash Past service deficit funding the company is to operate with fixed rate borrowings generated by the business before business made 18m of previously agreed special within a range of 20% to 50% of total disposals, special pension contributions, contributions towards funding the past net borrowings over the medium term dividends and financing trade investment service deficit in the principal UK scheme although the group may operate outside activities.
Free cash flow generated in the during 2006 07.
Following completion this range in the short term, as applied year was 83.0m 2005 06: 30.6m.
of the disposal programme, the company at year end following the major business agreed to pay a further 35m during the disposals.
The US private placement bonds In addition, the business disposal programme year 2006 07 and a further 22m to be were raised as fixed interest debt.
At the generated gross proceeds of 211.2m, ahead paid in June 2007.
Thereafter, no further year end, 81% of the groups net debt was of the target set in May 2006, principally in special pension contributions are currently fixed in this way.
Board approval is required cash on completion, with 6.7m in secured anticipated or required under the for use of any interest rate derivative.
This will remain subject Interest cover at year end the ratio of totalled 9.3m.
The disposals were made debt to periodic review between the company EBITDA to net interest charge, measured and cash free, including adjustment against a and the trustee to assess the ongoing under frozen UK GAAP had improved to target working capital based on average levels, impact of changes in key assumptions, 6.2 times 2005 06: 6.1 times.
and with the benefit of the rights to the including interest rates, inflation rates, insurance proceeds relating to the rebuild asset performance and mortality.
Currency risk management occurs at a of the Sheffield facility.
transactional level for example, in purchasing As a result of these actions, the deficit ingredients in foreign currencies and at a During the year, special pension contributions for total group retirement benefit schemes translational level for example, in relation were made, amounting to 18m relating calculated under International Accounting to Irish operations or foreign currency debt.
to the existing agreements with the trustee Standard IAS 19, reduced from 90.2m Board policy is to hedge transactional of the principal UK scheme, 10m on disposal pre-tax 63.7m net of tax at 1 April 2006 exposures using forward foreign exchange of NFT and an escrow payment of 25m to 8.6m pre-tax 2.1m net of tax at contracts wherever material and feasible, on disposal of the other businesses.
The company and the trustee while translational exposures are generally dividend payment of 11.5m 2005 06: are currently conducting a joint investment unhedged.
The US private placement debt 44.2m resulted from the rebasing of the final review to identify opportunities to reduce has been hedged using currency swaps of and interim dividends.
Net debt was reduced future volatility of the scheme funding position.
similar maturity subject to a one off right by 188.9m 2005 06: 36.8m increase.
for the counterparty bank to break the swap Financing and treasury management after seven years.
Balance sheet, net debt & ROIC The group has a centralised treasury function, As a result of the strong net cash flow, the which operates within a policy framework Risks and uncertainties 14 groups debt ratio, being net debt to EBITDA approved by the Board.
The policy was The operation of a public company involves calculated under frozen UK GAAP the reviewed by the Board in 2006 07 and a series of risks and uncertainties across accounting system used when the groups the Board receives a monthly update on a range of strategic, commercial, operational current financing facilities were established, compliance.
The principal areas of treasury and financial areas.
Northern Foods has a improved to 1.8 times 2005 06: 2.5 times.
management and respective policies cover robust internal control and risk management Net debt reduced significantly to 174.2m the management of liquidity risk, interest process, as outlined in the Corporate 2005 06: 363.1m.
rate risk and currency risk.
governance report, which is designed to provide assurance but which cannot avoid The disposal of underperforming assets at a net Liquidity risk management ensures sufficient all risks.
Below we have outlined potential loss resulted in total equity declining to 121.2m debt funding is available for the groups day risks that could impact the companys 2005 06: 152.1m.
Return on invested capital to day needs.
Board policy is to maintain performance, causing actual results to ROIC, measuring the pre-tax return on reasonable headroom of unused, committed vary from those experienced previously 15 shareholders invested capital, declined bank facilities in a range of maturities at least or described in forward looking statements slightly during the year to 7.8% 2005 06: twelve months beyond the year end.
These risks are 15 ROIC is calculated as adjusted profit from operations 16 being profit from operations before restructuring items for No past service deficit contributions will be required subject continuing operations, adjusted to exclude the non-service to ongoing achievement of the assumptions underpinning charge elements of pension costs divided by average the company-trustee agreement.
The IAS19 deficit reported 14 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and invested capital net equity adjusted to exclude retirement in these accounts would have been eliminated as at amortisation.
It is calculated as profit from operations benefit obligations net of deferred tax, and net debt, 31 March 2007 if the disposal based special pension before restructuring items plus depreciation and amortisation together with accumulated goodwill previously written off contributions had been completed as of that date 24 Performance review Northern Foods plc monitored on an ongoing basis through management processes.
Failure to Impairment the group has reviewed the the companys risk management processes.
implement and complete change carrying value of goodwill and fixed assets Additional risks and uncertainties, currently can impact financial results, employee and, from time to time, has impaired unknown or excluded from the analysis below, recruitment and retention, with the latter certain fixed asset values on a value in may also have an adverse material effect on also subject to the availability of a suitable use basis.
Future changes in performance the company.
pool of domestic and overseas staff.
or disposals could impact these values.
Proactive initiatives for this are included Customer relationships the company in the Corporate responsibility report: In addition to its key accounting judgements, seeks to manage the risks presented by the group has significant accounting policies its consolidated customer base, and the Managing procurement costs exposure for revenue recognition, foreign currencies, highly competitive environment that to price and supply fluctuations for raw property plant and equipment, intangible characterises the industry, through its materials and services is managed by assets, inventories, and derivative financial high service, high quality, low cost model a central procurement function, to better instruments and hedge accounting, which targeted across a portfolio of markets negotiate with relationship based suppliers, are set out in the notes to the consolidated where it has strong positions.
This is agreeing forward prices where appropriate.
supported by product development The company seeks to pass on costs, programmes and by maintaining and where possible, to its customers through Basis of preparation developing strong robust relationships price rises but constraints in achieving This financial information has been prepared with customers: this can affect the companys results: in accordance with IFRS.
The comparative information for 2005 06 has been restated Consumer trends exposure to changing Food safety appropriate product to reflect the impact of the business disposals consumer trends can impact profitability.
manufacturing, storage and avoidance in 2006 07.
The company seeks to manage these of contamination are critical.
Standard through portfolio changes, with greater manufacturing and distribution protocols Forward looking statements weight towards growth trends which are in place, together with proven product Forward looking statements are made include health, convenience and indulgence, recall processes for product recovery.
throughout this Annual report, including in for example, by managing new product Widespread food scares can impact the Performance review, the Report of the innovation to expand sales in these areas, directly through the sale of a contaminated directors and the Directors remuneration while managing the exposure to declining product or indirectly through lack of report.
These forward looking statements are market sectors.
The company is working supply or reduced consumer demand: based on a number of assumptions concerning actively with its retail customers, both future events and information currently through its brands and its actions on Financing, pensions and taxation available.
The user of these accounts should healthy eating set out in the Corporate the company has committed financing in not rely unduly on these forward looking responsibility report : place, which can only be withdrawn in the statements, which are not a guarantee of event of a breach of financing agreement, performance and which are subject to a Operational disruption the short lead such as covenants, when the company number of uncertainties and other facts, times involved in servicing our customers might be restricted in its ability to operate many of which are outside of the companys can lead to an adverse impact from normally and could be required to dispose control and could cause actual events to differ disruption of our manufacturing and of assets to pay down debt and incur materially from those in these statements.
distribution facilities for example, by fire, additional costs.
Pension schemes could health and safety failure, problems of supply, require increases in future company funding Although Northern Foods believes that the information systems failure, workforce and pension regulation could restrict the expectations reflected in those forward action or environmental incident.
This freedom of the company to undertake looking statements are reasonable, it cannot is managed through a process including certain corporate activities including assure users that those expectations will prove systems of standard operating procedure, disposals and return of capital to to be fulfilled.
In addition to those factors regulatory compliance, dedicated steering shareholders.
The company has certain described under Important factors could groups, monitoring, audit, consultation tax exposures totalling 28.0m which are cause actual results to differ materially from and multiple sourcing.
Insurance cover provided for but which, in the event of our expectation, including economic and is maintained where appropriate but an adverse finding by taxation authorities, political conditions, changes in laws, regulation may not cover all risks and losses: could result in a substantial payment of cash.
and accounting standards, customer relationships and actions, effectiveness of New legislation, regulation and litigation Key accounting judgements spending and marketing programmes and Northern Foods manages a range Taking into account this analysis of risks and unusual weather patterns.
No guarantee can of regulatory requirements regarding uncertainties, the key accounting judgements be given of future results, levels of activity, the production, sale, safety, labelling, which could impact future financial performance or achievements.
composition ingredients and disposal of performance include the following: its products.
Compliance monitoring and Comparative statements proactive initiatives seek to manage this Pensions movements in equity markets, In this report, Northern Foods makes risk.
Litigation claims and proceedings interest rates and life expectancy could certain statements with respect to its can have an adverse effect on the materially affect the level of surpluses market position or its products or its brands companys results: and deficits in the pension schemes.
market positions by comparisons with third The key assumptions used to value parties or their products or brands.
These Change management, recruitment and pension liabilities are set out in the statements are based on both internal retention ongoing change requires close notes to the financial statements: sources and independent sources and management attention and the company are accurate to the best of the knowledge has experience of managing such risks Tax the group carries out tax planning and belief of Northern Foods.
and has action plans to mitigate them, consistent with a group of its size, and including Board oversight and project makes appropriate provision, based on best estimates, until tax computations are agreed with the tax authorities: Northern Foods plc Performance review 25
