70 71 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Notes to the consolidated and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 financial statements Consolidated statement of Notes to the consolidated changes in equity financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2007 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited New standards and interpretations 1 Corporate information Issued Capital The group has adopted new and revised Standards and The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited the share Share redemption Treasury Other Retained Minority Total Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised capital premium reserve shares reserves earnings Total interests equity Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its operations and note 23 7 March 2008. effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January Balance at 1 January 2007 8,629 66,210 10,881 8,144 19,611 227,508 324,695 209 324,904 2007.
The principal effects of the adoption of these new and Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered in Jersey Foreign currency translation 72 72 72 amended standards and interpretations are discussed below: under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding company Net gain on maturity of cash flow hedges for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries together the recognised in income statement 22,183 22,183 22,183 IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements group.
The groups principal activity is the provision of facilities Net changes in fair value of derivatives 41,734 41,734 41,734 This amendment requires new disclosure regarding the groups solutions to the oil & gas production and processing industry.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital.
These Net changes in the fair value of new disclosures are shown in note 31. available-for-sale financial assets 140 140 140 A full listing of all group companies, including joint venture companies, is contained in note 32 to these consolidated financial statements.
Total income and expenses for the IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures year recognised in equity 19,339 19,339 19,339 This standard requires the disclosure of the groups financial 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Net profit for the year 188,716 188,716 188,716 instruments and qualitative and quantitative disclosures around the Basis of preparation Total income and expenses for the year 19,339 188,716 208,055 208,055 associated risks arising from those financial instruments.
The new The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Share-based payments charge note 22 5,412 5,412 5,412 disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and Shares issued on acquisition note 20 7 1,993 2,000 2,000 available-for-sale financial assets that have been measured at fair IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 value.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial Treasury shares note 21 21,698 21,698 21,698 This interpretation requires the application of IFRS 2 Share-based statements is United States dollars and all values in the financial Transfer to reserve for share-based statements are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except payment to be applied to any arrangements where equity instruments payments note 22 6,105 6,105 6,105 where otherwise stated.
are issued for consideration which appears to be less than fair value.
Dividends note 8 38,774 38,774 38,774 The group mainly enters into share-based payment transactions as Balance at 31 December 2007 8,636 68,203 10,881 29,842 50,467 377,450 485,795 209 486,004 Statement of compliance part of an employee share scheme and as a result this interpretation The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its has no impact on the financial position of the group.
subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited of Jersey law.
This interpretation prescribes that the existence of an embedded Issued Capital share Share redemption Treasury Other Retained Minority Total derivative is determined at the date an entity first becomes a party to capital premium reserve shares reserves earnings Total interests equity Basis of consolidation a contract and is reassessed only when there has been a change to US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
The adoption note 23 statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial of this interpretation does not have any significant impact on the Balance at 1 January 2006 8,629 66,210 10,881 17 12,426 121,850 195,127 195,127 statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year financial position of the group.
Foreign currency translation 7,449 7,449 7,449 as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made to the Net gain on maturity of cash flow hedges financial statements of the groups subsidiaries to bring their IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment recognised in income statement 2,378 2,378 2,378 accounting policies into line with those of the group.
This interpretation lays out guidelines for the treatment of impairment losses during an interim period, namely that the entity must not Net changes in fair value of derivatives 22,931 22,931 22,931 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in Realised gains on the sale of transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date respect of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or available-for-sale financial assets on which control is transferred out of the group.
Control is achieved a financial asset carried at cost.
The adoption of this interpretation recognised in income statement 1,671 1,671 1,671 where the Company has the power to govern the financial and did not affect the groups operating results or financial position.
Net changes in the fair value of operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from available-for-sale financial assets 1,062 1,062 1,062 its activities.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of Total income and expenses for the unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the year recognised in equity 27,393 27,393 27,393 groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or Net profit for the year 120,332 120,332 120,332 Minority interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the group are later periods but which the group has not early adopted.
Those that disclosed separately from the groups equity and income statement.
are applicable to the group are as follows: Total income and expenses for the year 27,393 120,332 147,725 147,725 Losses attributable to minority interests in excess of the minoritys IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised effective Share-based payments charge note 22 1,281 1,281 1,281 interest in the net assets of the subsidiary are adjusted against the for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 has been Treasury shares note 21 8,127 8,127 8,127 interest of the group unless there is a binding obligation on the part revised to enhance the usefulness of information presented in the Transfer to reserve for share-based of the minority to contribute additional investment in the subsidiary.
Management is considering the approach to payments note 22 3,363 3,363 3,363 meeting this requirement Dividends note 8 14,674 14,674 14,674 Comparative information relating to discontinued operations in the IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and consolidated income statement and related notes to the financial Minority interests acquired 209 209 Cancellations is required to be applied to periods beginning on or statements has not been separately disclosed, as the remaining after 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies the definition of Balance at 31 December 2006 8,629 66,210 10,881 8,144 19,611 227,508 324,695 209 324,904 assets and liabilities associated with the prior year discontinued non-vesting conditions and prescribes accounting treatment of an operations no longer meet the criteria of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets award that is cancelled because a non-vesting condition is not The attached notes 1 to 32 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations as they are not being satisfied.
This will have no significant impact on the groups discontinued via a sale transaction, but are being wound down.
financial statements 72 73 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Notes to the consolidated and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2007 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of Significant accounting judgements and estimates recognising its proportionate share of the joint ventures assets, New standards and interpretations continued depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each Judgements liabilities, income and expenses with similar items in the consolidated financial year end.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and the amended In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where the group management has made the following judgements, apart from those version of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial collaborates with other entities in jointly controlled operations, the involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after expenses the group incurs and its share of the revenue earned is amounts recognised in the financial statements: 1 July 2009, have been enhanced to, amongst other reasons, recognised in the income statement.
Assets controlled by the group The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment specify the accounting treatments for acquisition costs, contingent Revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement and liabilities incurred by it are recognised in the balance sheet.
shall be derecognised on disposal or when no future economic consideration, pre-existing relationships and reacquired rights.
and construction contracts: the group recognises revenue on Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss The revised standards include detailed guidance in respect of step fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts of the groups jointly controlled entities and operations to bring their arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and acquisitions and partial disposals of subsidiaries and associates using the  method, based on surveys accounting policies into line with those of the group.
equipment shall be included in profit or loss when the item is as well as in respect of allocation of income to non-controlling of work performed.
The group has determined this basis of derecognised.
Gains shall not be classified as revenue.
Further, an option has been added to IFRS 3 to permit an revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress Foreign currency translation entity to recognise 100% of the goodwill of an acquired entity, not on such contracts The Companys functional and presentational currency is United Non-current assets held for sale just the acquiring entitys portion of the goodwill.
The impact of this States dollars.
In the accounts of individual group companies, Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale standard on the group is not expected to be significant Estimation uncertainty transactions in currencies other than a companys functional when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will be IFRS 8 Operating Segments introduces the management The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange at the date recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
IFRS 8, which becomes of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
mandatory for the groups 2009 financial information, will require significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign Borrowing costs regularly reviewed by the groups Chief Operating Decision Maker discussed below: currency are translated using the rate of exchange as at the dates of Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying in order to assess each segments performance and allocate Project cost to complete estimates: at each balance sheet date the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of resources to them.
Management is analysing the approach to the group is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed-price at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of those be used in the segment information under IFRS 8 contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such contracts requires exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
All foreign assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, the group to make estimates of future costs to be incurred, based exchange gains and losses are taken to the income statement intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as interest Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction clarifies on work to be performed beyond the balance sheet date with the exception of exchange differences arising on monetary payable in the income statement in the period in which they are when refunds or reductions in future contributions in relation to Impairment of goodwill: the group determines whether goodwill is assets and liabilities that form part of the groups net investment incurred.
defined benefit assets should be regarded as available and provides impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation in subsidiaries.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal guidance on the impact of minimum funding requirements MFR on of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the of the net investment at which time they are recognised in the Goodwill such assets.
It also addresses when an MFR might give rise to a goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the income statement.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at liability.
IFRIC 14 will become mandatory for the groups 2008 group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over financial information, with retrospective application required.
This from each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent will have no significant impact on the groups financial statements discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash translated in to US dollars using the closing rate method, whereby liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial Revisions to IAS 23 Borrowing costs have removed the option flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2007 was assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that US$71,743,000 2006: US$56,732,000 at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of overseas impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready Deferred tax assets: the group recognises deferred tax assets on subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated at average exchange more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that for use or sale.
An entity is, therefore, required to capitalise unused tax losses where it is probable that future taxable profits rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation such carrying value may be impaired.
borrowing costs as part of the cost of such assets.
The revised will be available for utilisation.
This requires management to make of net assets are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
standard applies to borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after tax that can be recognised as well as the likelihood of future On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the 1 January 2009.
This will have no significant impact on the group taxable profits.
The carrying amount of recognised tax losses differences are recognised in the income statement as a component synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill is IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions at 31 December 2007 was US$8,512,000 2006: US$1,851,000 of the gain or loss on disposal.
allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 Income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to routine goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not provides specific guidance on applying IFRS 2.
It addresses sharetax audits and also a process whereby tax computations are Property, plant and equipment larger than a segment based on either the groups primary or the based payments involving an entity choosing or being required to discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Whilst the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated groups secondary reporting format determined in accordance with buy its own equity instruments treasury shares to settle a shareultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the IAS14 Segment Reporting.
based payment obligation and the situation when the parent grants determined with certainty, management estimates the level of purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly rights to its equity instruments to employees of its subsidiaries provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of both of which should be treated as equity-settled.
In addition it of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the addresses the situation when a subsidiary grants rights to equity the tax authority concerned paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the instruments of its parent to its employees which should be treated Recoverable value of intangible oil & gas assets: the group asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis other than on carrying amount of the units and related goodwill, an impairment loss as cash settled.
The Directors anticipate that the initial adoption of determines at each balance sheet date whether there is any oil & gas assets at the following rates.
this standard will have no significant impact on the group evidence of impairment in the carrying value of its intangible oil & gas assets.
This requires management to estimate the recoverable Oil & gas facilities 10% 12.5% Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and part Other interpretations that have been issued but that are not yet value of its intangible oil & gas assets by reference to quoted Plant and equipment 4% 33% of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill effective but that are not applicable to the group are IFRIC 12 market values, similar arms length transactions involving these Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying Service Concession Arrangements and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty assets etc or shorter of the lease term amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on Programmes.
Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance Interests in joint ventures Vehicles 20% 33% is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed The group has a number of contractual arrangements with other of and the portion of the cash-generating units retained.
parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future operations.
The groups interests in jointly controlled entities are development expenditure relating to those reserves.
accounted for by proportionate consolidation, which involves 74 75 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Notes to the consolidated and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2007 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Changes in unit-of-production factors Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Inventories Intangible assets non oil & gas assets Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations Financial assets Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset is Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and years amounts.
derecognised where: course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the are recognised separately from goodwill as the asset is separable or estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair value can be Decommissioning purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other directly the group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but measured reliably.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than raw materials, has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
Costs of raw to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when a materials are determined using the weighted average method.
the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the over their useful economic life using a straight line method unless a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The amount asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and better method reflecting the pattern in which the assets future recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained economic benefits are expected to be consumed can be determined.
An amount equivalent to the initial provision for decommissioning earnings substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets is included in costs is capitalised and amortised over the life of the underlying Fixed-price lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction transferred control of the asset.
the selling, general and administration expenses line of the income asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and probable contracts are presented in the balance sheet as follows: statement.
The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an reserves.
Any change in the present value of the estimated Financial liabilities annual basis.
Any change in the useful life or pattern of consumption expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and For each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the of the intangible asset is treated as a change in accounting estimate the oil & gas asset.
estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage of liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
and is accounted for prospectively by changing the amortisation completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after deducting period or method.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning the progress payments received or receivable to the customers, are If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
provisions is included under finance costs in the income statement.
shown in current assets in the balance sheet as Work in progress.
lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification Customer contracts Available-for-sale financial assets Where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceed is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition Customer contracts arising from acquisition are amortised over the Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated of a new liability such that the difference in the respective carrying remaining years of the contracts on a straight line basis.
value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
losses, the excess is shown as Billings in excess of cost and amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in estimated earnings within current liabilities.
Oil & gas assets After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are Capitalised costs measured at their fair value using quoted market rates.
Gains and Trade and other receivables Pensions and other long-term employment benefits The groups activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice The group has various defined contribution pension schemes in assets in the evaluation, development and production phases and investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries the group has adopted IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of loss previously reported in equity is included in the income uncollectable.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is in which it operates.
The amount charged to the income statement in Mineral Resources for the purposes of accounting for oil & gas statement.
objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer respect of pension costs reflects the contributions payable in the assets in its financial statements.
probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Differences between contributions payable during the year and Impairment of assets excluding goodwill derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities or Oil & gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted for At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
using the successful efforts method of accounting.
of its tangible and intangible assets to assess whether there is an Cash and cash equivalents indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand and The groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in Evaluation expenditures exists, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the group Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash operates, further details of which are given in note 25. activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include the fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Share-based payment transactions to contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Employees including directors of the group receive remuneration in overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Interest-bearing loans and borrowings the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees activity, which may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to the risks specific to the asset.
All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equitybe carried as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly settled transactions.
Such costs are subject to If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its attributable to the borrowing.
technical, commercial and management review to confirm the carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Equity-settled transactions continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this is recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured no longer the case, the costs are written off in the income statement.
in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
When such assets are declared part of a commercial development, revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any related costs are transferred to tangible oil & gas assets.
issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price oil & gas assets are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, if applicable.
and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Provisions amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with Development expenditures recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the within property, plant and equipment.
income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific extent to which the vesting period has expired and the groups best amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment is treated as a to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the income The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the statement as a finance cost.
movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
76 77 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Notes to the consolidated and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2007 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the Equity-settled transactions continued sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax values or cash flows of the hedged items.
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only losses can be utilised condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at conditions are satisfied.
Equity awards cancelled are treated as measured reliably.
hedging relationship, as follows: each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the Facilities management, engineering and training services Fair value hedges allow all or part of the deferred income tax assets to be utilised.
Operations Services For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred 2 Share-based payment in respect of equity-settled awards and schedule of rates.
both are taken to the income statement.
For hedged items carried at tax asset to be recovered.
has applied IFRS 2 Share-based payment only to equity-settled amortised cost, the adjustment is amortised through the income awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an 1 January 2005.  method, measured by milestones undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be The group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust was established on 7 March the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the group revokes 2006 to warehouse ordinary shares purchased to satisfy various new revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that the designation.
Current and deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to share scheme awards made to the employees of the Company, are expected to be recoverable.
equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
which will be transferred to the members of the scheme on their Cash flow hedges Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
respective vesting dates subject to satisfying the performance Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the conditions of each scheme.
The trust has been consolidated in the is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the For presentation purposes certain 2006 comparative tax figures financial statements in accordance with SIC 12 Special Purpose performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of have been restated to conform to the current years presentation.
ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
The cost of shares temporarily held by Petrofac Employee the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the Benefit Trust are reflected as treasury shares and deducted included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced Derivative financial instruments and hedging hedged transaction affects the income statement.
stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward measured reliably.
currency contracts, interest rate collars and swaps and oil price If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised Leases collars to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, interest without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease Oil & gas activities Energy Developments rate and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date or Oil & gas revenues comprise the groups share of sales from the are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right to the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed to value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or use the asset.
and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
The group has entered into various operating leases the payments Income taxes Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of for which are recognised as an expense in the income statement on Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the Embedded derivatives a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the group first becomes party to the contract, with Revenue recognition Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from profit as maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate cap, swap and oil price and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: reported in the income statement because it excludes items of collar contracts is determined by reference to market values for separated and accounted for as standalone derivatives.
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and similar instruments.
Engineering, procurement and construction services it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Engineering & Construction groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair the  method, based on surveys of work value of a recognised asset or liability: or performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash In the early stages of contract completion, when the outcome of the balance sheet date between the carrying amounts of assets and flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues are liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following transaction to be recoverable.
exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition The group formally designates and documents the relationship Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by business combination that at the time of the transaction affects inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management the cost-to-cost method.
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The documentation also includes identification of the hedging Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being contracts entered into at the balance sheet date, whether or not the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled hedged and how the group will assess the hedging instruments work has commenced on these contracts.
and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged the foreseeable future: and items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and
