REVIEW OF OPERATIONS FINANCIAL REVIEW The results for the year reflect another strong performance and consequently the board has increased the annual dividend by 20%.
Total revenue for the group of Cash operating costs for the group were US$282.8 million increased by 9% on the US$315 per ounce, up from US$258 per previous year on the back of a higher average ounce in 2006.
After royalties, total cash gold price received of US$652 per ounce.
costs for the group were US$356 per ounce Attributable production of 444 573 ounces for the year compared to US$296 per ounce was slightly lower than the previous years in 2006.
This compares to an estimated 448 242 ounces.
Net profit for the year was industry average for 2007 of approximately US$45.6 million, a decrease of 10% US$390 per ounce.
Diesel constituted compared to the previous year.
This was approximately 30% of production costs in as a result of higher mining costs at both the year, hence its significant impact on cost operations, due to the impact of higher diesel pressures.
Unit cost at Morila showed a prices, the effect of the weak US dollar on 14% increase to US$31 per tonne milled, the euro-based component of the operational reflecting general cost pressures.
At Loulo, 1 By July 2007, more than costs, increased royalties payable resulting unit costs were up 22% to just over US$33 20 000 metres of drilling had from the higher average gold price received per tonne milled, reflecting an increase in been completed at the and general cost increases in other the proportion of harder sulphide ore being Tongon project.
Profit would processed together with the other cost also have been significantly higher had it not pressures.
been for a tax adjustment of US$3.2 million at Morila, mainly related to payroll and The lower grade processed at Morila also withholding taxes, included in other affected the cost per ounce.
Grades at expenses, and increased exploration and Morila decreased from 4.2g t in 2006 to corporate expenditure of US$35.9 million 3.7g t, while Loulos grade remained relatively 2006: US$28.8 million, mainly as a consistent at 3.3g t 2006: 3.2g t, as per result of the increased expenditure on the the respective life of mine plans.
The board determined on 31 January 2008 to proceed with the As noted, expenditure on exploration and development of this project and going corporate costs increased by US$7.1 million, forward, future expenditure on the a large part of which related to the completion development of the mine will be capitalised of the Tongon feasibility study, and continued and expensed over the life of the mine.
to be an important area of investment for Earnings per share of 60 cents was down the company.
Extensive drilling programmes on the 70 cents of 2006, in line with the were undertaken in all countries in which the reduced net profit.
company operates except for Ghana.
22 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 1 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 23 Morilas five year Mali corporate profit tax Property, plant and equipment increased Life of mine scheduling at Morila anticipates holiday ended in November 2005 and the significantly year on year, mainly due to production for 2008 to be approximately accounts include a charge of US$21.3 million investments made on the underground 465 000 ounces 186 000 attributable for the tax payable compared to development at Loulo, as previously ounces.
Loulos 2008 production is US$23.3 million the previous year.
Long term receivables increased scheduled to be approximately 265 000 ounces.
Total cash costs for the group continues to benefit from exoneration from by US$9.1 million over the year due to an corporate profit tax for five years from the increase in the TVA balance at Morila.
The are estimated to increase year on year between 10% and 15% depending on the date of first commercial production which non-current receivables of US$22.8 million diesel price, euro dollar exchange rate and was 8 November 2005. are those parts of the receivables from the gold price, which impacts on Mali MDM Ferroman Pty Limited in liquidation government royalties paid.
Randgold The companys cash position is very healthy MDM and the Malian government which, Resources will also continue to invest with US$343 million of cash and financial while legally payable immediately, are extensively in its prospective exploration assets 2006: US$143 million on the expected to be paid after more than portfolio.
balance sheet and borrowings of 12 months.
The company continues to US$9.5 million 2006: US$53 million.
Net believe it will receive the amounts accrued Development at the Yalea underground mine cash has improved from last year despite as owing to it by MDM US$12.1 million, at Loulo is now well underway with first the significant expenditure on capital the original contractor at Loulo, and this stoping ore expected to be mined by mid matter is no longer the subject of an expenditure and exploration and corporate year: US$45.6 million having been spent on costs: US$47.9 million was spent on capital emphasis of matter in the audit report.
this capital programme during the year.
projects, mainly on the Loulo underground The capital expenditure for this year is project, including the development of the Short term receivables increased as a result estimated at US$23 million, after which the twin declines and acquisition of the of an increase in trade debtors due to the Yalea underground will be fully operational.
The company completed timing of gold shipments at year end at both The Gara underground development is an equity placing in December 2007, which mines.
The increase in inventories and ore planned to start in 2009 with first ore fed to stockpiles is due to the additional demand raised US$231.7 million, net of expenses, the plant in 2010, with a capital estimate of for the development of the Tongon project for supplies and insurance spares at Loulo US$39 million over the two years.
In and other organic and corporate growth with the development of the underground November 2007, the company released the opportunities.
During the year, the company mine and improved production, as well as results of its updated feasibility study on the converted its Loulo project finance facility an increase in the stockpiles at Morila in line Tongon project, which anticipates total capital into a corporate facility, to increase its flexibility with the life of mine plan.
As previously expenditure of US$267 million over the life and reduce the associated financing costs.
indicated, mining at Morila will stop during of the project, the bulk of which will be spent Following the completion of the equity 2009, after which the lower grade stockpiles in 2009 and 2010.
Tongon is expected to placing, the company repaid the remaining will be processed until 2013.
During this come into production towards the end of amounts outstanding under the corporate time, cash costs as defined are expected 2010. facility US$40.8 million.
However, cash flow from the US$60 million facility remains available for operation is still anticipated to be strong as In view of the strong cash flows from a large portion of these costs have already drawdown should there be a need for future operations and the companys strong funding.
The financial instruments balance sheet, the board decided to declare liability also increased during the year, an annual dividend of 12 cents per share, Subsequent to the September quarter end, following the increase in the gold price and totalling a payout of US$9.1 million.
This is the company transferred US$49 million from reflects the marked-to-market valuation of an increase of 20% on the prior years maiden cash and cash equivalents to available-forthe hedged ounces at the year end spot dividend and is a reflection of the profitable sale financial assets.
This related to its price of US$836 per ounce.
Shareholders portfolio of AAA rated short term asset have also enjoyed substantial capital returns backed securities and other corporate debt During the year the company delivered in the year with the share price rising 58% instruments.
The trading market for these 90 836 gold ounces into its hedge positions from US$23.46 to US$37.13 at year end.
instruments had become substantially illiquid which reduced the financial instruments Over the past five years the share price has as a result of the unusual conditions in the liability, given the higher gold price, and the increased by 450%.
We are monitoring the remaining 207 240 ounces are scheduled situation closely including the credit ratings to be delivered until 2010.
The forward contracts all relate to Loulo, with Morilas set by the rating agencies and the maturity of the underlying collateral.
We continue to production being completely exposed to receive interest payable on these securities spot gold prices.
The remaining portion of and all the securities remain AAA rated and the hedge book represents approximately based on these factors have not been 13% of the groups attributable production Graham Shuttleworth for the period.
Financial director impaired in the balance sheet.
24 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Operations Operations Operations Abdoulaye Kone Plant superintendent, Morila Abdoulaye worked as a labourer on the construction of the Syama mine in 1989 90 and became elution operator when the mine, subsequently acquired by Randgold Resources, went into production.
He was promoted to general foreman and then to oxide plant superintendent, before moving to Morila as CIL and elution foreman in 2000.
He was promoted to his present position in 2004.
Its my job to keep the team focused on results: meeting challenging production and cost targets without compromising safety.
Leadership is not just about keeping up the pressure - its also about giving people a vision.
