FINANCIAL REVIEW The Financial review has been prepared for the purpose of assisting The Group markets and distributes its products to customers members of the Company to assess the strategies adopted by the around the world, with sales outside the UK representing over Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed and 93% of total group sales.
no-one, including members of the Company, may rely on it for any The Group has established overseas marketing and distribution other purpose.
The directors owe their duties only to members of subsidiaries in the USA, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the Company as a whole and they undertake no duty of care to Switzerland, Hong Kong, Brazil, The Netherlands, India, Australia, individual members, other stakeholders or potential investors.
Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Austria, South Korea, This review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and Canada, Israel, The Peoples Republic of China and Singapore.
These information available to the directors at that time.
Given the nature subsidiaries provide support to customers in our major markets.
of some forward-looking information, which has been given in good There are also representative offices in Taiwan, Hungary, Turkey, Malaysia faith, members should treat this information with due caution.
and Thailand, and an associate company, 50%-owned, in Slovenia.
Business outline Business strategy Renishaws business is metrology, the science of measurement.
The Groups business plan is to develop technologies that The Group manufactures a comprehensive range of high-precision provide patented products and methods which support our probing systems, accessories, calibration and measuring systems product strategies.
These solutions include ultra high-resolution and other innovative products which enable customers worldwide encoders, high-speed, high-accuracy, error-corrected dimensional to carry out dimensional measurements to traceable standards.
measurement systems, motion controllers with enhanced highThe Groups products comprise: speed performance and the development of novel approaches to materials analysis.
t Co-ordinate measuring machine CMM probes and accessories, which are used for accurate post-process inspection The Group is developing other market opportunities, diversifying of components on CMMs.
With Renishaws new Renscan5 from our traditional manufacturing sector.
These other market 5-axis scanning technology, manufacturers can inspect complex opportunities include printing, scientific research, dental, process components at unprecedented speed without compromising control in chemical, semiconductor and material production, and measurement accuracy.
motion feedback systems for equipment used in the production of electronic and semiconductor components.
Also, in the medical t Machine tool probes and tool setting systems, used for field, the Group is developing systems for precision functional automated component identification, workpiece and tool neurosurgery.
setting and component inspection, which can be fitted on CNC turning and milling machines.
To remain competitive, companies The Group also plans to develop further geographic markets, with need to automate production whilst maintaining tight control of ongoing investment mainly in South East Asia, especially China and the dimensions and finish of their manufactured components.
India, whilst recent investments in Central & Eastern Europe have The acceptance of quality control in the production environment resulted in good growth.
means that probing is considered essential and allows the To improve the Groups ability to design, manufacture and support complete manufacturing process to be monitored and made its products, more investment has been made in manufacturing self-correcting.
facilities in the UK and in India.
t Laser calibration systems and the QC10 ballbar, used to It is the Boards belief that success comes from patented and determine the accuracy of CMMs, machine tools and other innovative products and processes, low-cost, high-quality industrial and scientific equipment.
Regular use of these systems manufacturing and the ability to provide local customer support improves the precision of the production process and thus helps in all the Groups markets.
increase product quality, reduce scrap and machine down-time.
t Linear and angle encoder systems, for precise linear and rotary Opportunities and risks motion control.
These systems offer precision feedback for a The Group invests heavily in research and development, to develop variety of applications, ranging from long-axis machine tools to new products and processes to maintain the long-term growth X-Y wafer inspection systems.
This research and development encompasses new innovative products within our core metrology business, as well as t Scanning and digitising systems, used to gather data from 3D looking into new areas, such as dental and specific applications in surfaces, specifically for certain dental processes and in other the medical field.
fields such as jewellery, coin, shoe and automotive manufacture.
These systems are used where high rates of data capture with In April 2007, the Company purchased 20% of the shares of high accuracy from fine detail impression dies is required.
Delcam plc, a company listed on the AIM market, which specialises t in the supply of CAD CAM systems and services for the design Spectroscopy products, including a Raman microscope, used to and manufacture of and tooling for products with complex identify the composition and structure of materials, which can be shapes.
Working together with Delcam on software development applied in many different fields, such as pharmaceutical, forensic, programmes will help the Group to remain at the forefront of the semiconductor and chemical industries.
t A broad range of styli for CMM and machine tool probes, enabling As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, the UK defined benefit precision measurement in any application.
pension scheme has been closed for future accruals to all existing t Custom products, where Renishaws standard product does not members, with a new defined contribution scheme replacing the address the customers specialised requirements.
defined benefit scheme going forward.
This will limit the risks in The Group principally manufactures its products in the UK, Ireland, the future, where the value of the defined benefit scheme can be in India where a manufacturing facility was opened during the year subject to large fluctuations resulting from changes in performance and more recently in Gemany following the acquisition of itp GmbH.
22 With the concentration of manufacturing in the UK and Ireland, there International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS is inevitably an exposure to fluctuating currencies on export sales, In accordance with EU law, the consolidated financial statements largely in respect of the US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen.
This of the Company are prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by year has seen some adverse movements in exchange rates which the EU, for all accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January have resulted in a 7m lower profit when the results of overseas 2005.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company operations have been translated into Sterling.
The Group was financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
hedged throughout the year for a significant amount of its exposure Operating review to changes in the Euro, but the US Dollar and Japanese Yen were In the year to 30th June 2007, group revenue increased by 3% over unhedged in expectation of these currencies strengthening against the previous year, from 175.8m to 180.9m.
The Group continues to be hedged against the Euro for the from the weakening of the US Dollar and Japanese Yen and sales 2008 financial year but there are continuing risks associated with would have increased by a further 9.3m, or 8%, if translated at the the US Dollar and Japanese Yen.
The policy relating to the Groups previous years exchange rates.
hedging practices is noted within the treasury policies on page 24.
Sales of CMM products were reduced by the export embargo Sales of CMM products have been affected by a court case brought affecting one of our major customers as noted above, along with by the Japanese government against one of our major customers, difficult market conditions for this product line.
A temporary ceasing of export Europe has seen the best growth in sales, increasing by 14%.
For business by this customer throughout the year resulted in lower both the Americas and Far East, sales in local currency showed a sales in this product line.
This company will be able to export to smaller growth but this has been eliminated when the results have approved identified end users from January 2008. been translated into Sterling.
The following table shows the analysis of revenue by geographical market and the effect of exchange rate changes.
Geographical analysis 2007 sales 2007 sales 2006 sales at actual at 2006 at actual exchange Change exchange Change exchange rates from 2006 rates from 2006 rates 000 % 000 % 000 Continental Europe 67,196 14% 67,005 14% 58,945 Far East, including Japan and Australia 50,736 -5% 56,185 6% 53,130 North and South America 46,160 -1% 50,193 7% 46,708 United Kingdom and Ireland 11,789 2% 11,789 2% 11,513 Other regions 5,002 -10% 5,031 -9% 5,539 Total group revenue 180,883 3% 190,203 8% 175,835 Revenue by geographical market Labour costs increased by 4.7m, from 70.4m last year to 75.1m, an increase of 7%.
Other regions As mentioned above, the Group continued to invest in research and 2% UK and Ireland 7% development which amounted to a gross expenditure of 31.1m, before the capitalisation of development costs net of amortisation charges of 1.6m, giving a net charge in the Consolidated income statement of 29.5m.
This compares with a gross figure of 29.3m, Continental capitalised costs of 1.8m and a net charge of 27.5m last year.
North and Europe South America Due to changes in the UK defined benefit pension scheme, there 37% 26% is an exceptional pension curtailment credit disclosed in the Consolidated income statement.
This amounted to 19.5m, with an associated tax charge of 5.4m.
Far East Excluding the exceptional item, the operating profit was 29.7m, a 28% decrease of 16% from the previous year.
Profit before tax, excluding the exceptional item, was 32.7m, compared with 38.1m in the previous year.
The overall effective rate of tax, a combination of the varying tax The number of personnel in the Group rose during the year, with rates applicable throughout the countries in which the Group has head count increasing by 150, from 2,004 at June 2006 to 2,154 operations, was 23%.
This comprises a deferred tax rate of 28% at June 2007.
Head count increases have been focused mainly in on the exceptional item and an average of 20% on the rest of the manufacturing, both to support increasing sales and to establish the profit.
The comparable rate for the previous year was 20%.
manufacturing facility in India, as well as in marketing, especially in the Far East.
Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes the exceptional item, decreased by 14%, from 41.9p to 35.9p.
23 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED For the UK defined benefit scheme, a guide to the sensitivity of the Operating profit before exceptional item value of the liabilities is: Operating profit % of revenue Valuation Approx.
effect sensitivity Variation on liabilities Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% Increase 2.6m 35 50 Inflation Increase by 0.1% Increase 1.0m Assumed retirement age Decrease by 1 year Increase 5.6m 30 Mortality Increase to med.
cohort Increase 1.6m 40 25 Treasury policies 20 30 The Groups treasury policies are designed to manage financial risks to the Group that arise from operating in a number of foreign 15 currencies and to maximise interest income on cash deposits.
As 20 an international group, the main exposure is in respect of foreign 10 currency risk on the trading transactions undertaken by overseas 10 subsidiaries and on the translation of the net assets of these 5 subsidiaries.
0 0 Regular groupwide cash management reporting and forecasting 03 04 05 06 07 is in place to facilitate management of this currency risk.
The operations of group treasury, which is situated at head office, are Balance sheet governed by Board-approved policies.
The Group spent 9.7m on tangible fixed assets during the year, All Sterling and foreign currency balances not immediately required mainly relating to developing our manufacturing facilities.
The for group operations are placed on short-term deposit with leading facility in India is now manufacturing products and the last stage of international highly-rated financial institutions.
refurbishment at Woodchester has been completed.
Overall, net tangible fixed assets increased by 0.4m during the year.
The Group uses a number of financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk, such as foreign currency borrowings to hedge Intangible fixed assets, mainly comprising development costs and the exposure on the net assets of the overseas subsidiaries and, software licences, grew by 1.3m during the year from 12.5m from time to time, forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign to 13.8m.
The principal increase was the capitalisation of currency cash inflows.
development costs, which, net of amortisation charges, amounted Also, currency swaps are used to minimise the interest cost to 1.6m.
of maintaining the currency borrowings.
The foreign currency During the year the Company invested 6.1m in a 20% borrowings are short-term with floating interest rates.
The Group shareholding in Delcam plc.
The investment was at a price of does not speculate with derivative financial instruments.
At 30th June 2007, the share price was 4.15.
Investments in associates increased from 0.9m at 30th June 2006 See note 20 on page 52 for an analysis of cash balances and currency borrowings at the year end.
Inventories have increased by 28% during the year, up from 28.4m During the year, there were forward contracts in place to hedge against the major part of the Groups Euro cash inflows for the year.
This was as a result of the initial stocking of the India manufacturing facility and a revised policy put in place during the This resulted in a profit for the year of 2.0m on maturity of these contracts, compared with 1.4m in the previous year.
Forward year to maintain a certain level of finished goods around the world.
contracts are also in place as a hedge against a major part of the The investment in Delcam, increased inventory and increased Groups estimated Euro cash inflows from July 2007 through to dividends paid during the year have contributed to a lower cash June 2008. balance at the end of the year.
Cash at 30th June 2007 stood at 20.8m, down 9.9m from the 30.7m held at 30th June 2006.
Investment for the future Cash flows from operating activities reduced to 22.4m, from The Group has continued to invest heavily in innovative products 34.1m last year, largely due to the increase in inventories.
and processes, with 17% of revenue being spent on research and The curtailment of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, with development, including associated engineering costs.
The Group effect from April 2007, along with increases in the pension fund is committed to continuing this policy in order to develop new assets, has resulted in the defined benefit pension funds showing a patented products to support its existing markets and to expand surplus at the end of the year of 5.6m, compared with a deficit of into new market areas.
Defined benefit pension fund assets at We will also continue to invest in manufacturing, to improve 30th June 2007 were 91.5m with liabilities of 85.9m.
efficiencies in production and ensure capacity for the future, and extend our presence around the world by opening offices in new territories and expanding existing offices where considered appropriate.
