Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review FINANCIAL REVIEW CENTRAL COSTS Fourth quarter Full year million 2007 2006 change 2007 2006 change At 2006 constant exchange rates Central costs 0.1 9.6 101.0% 28.5 19.5 46.2% One-off items 2.6 9.2 Central costs before one-off items 0.1 7.0 101.4% 28.5 28.7 0.7% Across the group, the net cost of these one-off items for Central costs for the quarter were 7.1 million below the the year was 28.4 million, compared with 22.6 million same quarter last year, mainly as a result of the partial last year.
This represents costs of 39.1 million offset reversal of 2006 and 2007 LTIP charges, the reassessment by profit of 10.7 million on the disposal of surplus UK of bonus and similar provisions reflecting lower-thanwashroom properties.
Of the costs, 25.4 million related expected profits for the year and the release of certain to the integration of City Link and Target Express.
Another property provisions due to favourable changes in sub-let 12.8 million was incurred in the rationalisation of Textiles income.
In the full year, there were a number of nonand Washroom with a further 0.9 million to complete recurring charges and credits which have not been treated the UK Pest Control and Facilities Services rationalisation as one-off items as they are not linked to the groups programmes.
18.3 million of the City Link integration restructuring programme.
The largest two items which costs are provisions for the estimated cost of exiting occurred in the second quarter were an asset retirement, surplus leasehold depots.
together with associated charges, of 10 million and the 10 million net release of surplus property and INTEREST environmental provisions.
This followed a successful Net interest payable for the year was 71.9 million, a exit from onerous lease liabilities at a large site in Maldon, 20.8 million increase over the prior year.
A cash payment of 13.2 million was made and the approximately 6.1 million was attributable to higher levels associated provisions were released.
In addition, start-up of average debt and 14.7 million to effective interest rates costs of some 3.0 million were incurred in the first half which were, on average, approximately 1.3% higher than on setting up the UK Shared Service Centre in Dudley.
The run-rate of central costs is expected to be around The interest charge was reduced by approximately 9.0 million per quarter in 2008.
7.7 million in the third quarter and approximately ONE-OFF ITEMS 8.7 million in the fourth quarter as a result of the receipt One-off items relate to the groups restructuring programme of 533 million in early July and 92 million in late and consist of consultancy, redundancy and reorganisation December following the sale of the groups Electronic costs net of the profit on sale of certain properties in the Security division.
Approximately 800 million of the groups UK washroom business.
They have been separately forecast debt is at fixed rates of interest averaging 5.8%.
identified as they are not considered to be business as The balance is exposed to LIBOR.
usual expenses and have a varying impact on different businesses and reporting periods.
In aggregate they make TAX it difficult to understand underlying trends in performance The blended headline rate for 2007 was 30.0% 2006: 30.7%.
unless they are separately identified.
This represents the weighted headline tax rates appropriate 40 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 40 27 3 08 02:58:13 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review to the countries in which the group operates.
The income capex outflows were 46.0 million and 13.1 million worse statement tax charge for 2007 for continuing businesses than 2006, leaving operating cash flow 22.9 million below last was 21.3% of profit before tax from continuing operations, year.
The working capital outflow has three main components: compared with 20.1% for 2006.
The principal factor that the payment made to exit the onerous property in Essex: the caused the effective tax rate to be lower than the blended cash payment in 2007 of certain reorganisation costs provided rate is the release of provisions for prior year items as the at the end of 2006: and an increase in trade receivables positions are now agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
consistent with the increase in fourth quarter revenues.
The blended headline rate for 2008 is expected to be Free cash flow was 102.1 million 2006: 128.6 million approximately 29.3%.
reflecting lower net tax payments following the receipt of certain refunds in the first half.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Our Electronic Security division was sold during the year Acquisition activity resulted in a cash outflow of 197.4 at a headline price of 595 million.
The sales of the UK, million for the year with receipts from disposals mainly Netherlands and US businesses were completed in early Electronic Security producing an inflow of 596.8 million.
July 2007 and the French business completed in December, Additional contributions of 80.0 million were made to, or following regulatory approval by the French authorities.
for the benefit of, the UK Pension Scheme during the year.
As a result the activities of the division have been treated At 31 December, net debt was 947.1 million.
The group as discontinued operations and excluded from the profit currently has 852 million of committed bank finance with before income tax.
Revenue from the Electronic Security available headroom of 775 million at the end of February division for the periods to completion was 181.2 million, 2008.
This is adequate to deal with the groups foreseeable generating adjusted operating profit of 25.7 million before requirements and also to provide cover for 2008s capital amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer market maturities 100 million in July 2008 and 250 million software and development costs.
Profit on sale of the division in November 2008 in the event that the debt capital markets was 524.8 million on which no tax is expected to be paid.
remain difficult for the remainder of the year.
DIVIDENDS FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES The board has recommended an unchanged final dividend The board has approved the following financial risk of 5.25p per share which, if approved, will be payable on management policies.
These policies cover those financial 23 May 2008 to shareholders on the Register on 18 April 2008. risks that are material to the companys operations and The total dividend for the year will be 7.38p, the same as last financial results.
The board has set appropriate delegated year.
The boards dividend policy remains unchanged and authorities, treasury financing parameters and reporting the dividend will not be increased until the group returns procedures to ensure compliance with such policies at all to sustainable profitable growth.
The effect of the companys treasury activities is CASH FLOW AND DEBT reflected in the disclosures in notes 16, 21 and 22.
Operating cash flow was 188.1 million compared with CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING STRATEGY 211.0 million in the prior year.
Although EBITDA was LIQUIDITY RISK 36.2 million better than last year reflecting the nonThe board has set the following policies so as to minimise recurrence of losses incurred in the UK linen and workwear the companys exposure to liquidity risk and thus ensure business in 2006 and partially offset by the disposal of that the company is able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Electronic Security in July 2007, the working capital and net 41 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 41 27 3 08 02:58:14 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review The company is committed to maintaining a debt equity In 2007 the group lengthened the maturity profile of its capital structure that is sufficiently robust so as to ensure debt.
This was achieved through the successful issuance the continued access to a broad range of financing sources of a 500 million seven year bond in March and the one year and thus be able to maintain sufficient flexibility to pursue extension of the existing 500 million five year syndicated commercial opportunities, in a timely manner as they bank credit facility in October, from October 2011 to October 2012. present themselves, without the imposition of onerous financing terms and conditions.
The company will target MARKET PRICE RISK a minimum financing headroom of 200 million, when The company and its reported results are exposed to measured against its latest forecast anticipated cash flows financial market price movements.
These risks principally over a rolling nine-month time horizon.
The companys arise from the interest and foreign exchange rate markets.
sources of finance should be structured in a manner so as In addition, through its UK defined benefit pension scheme to minimise potential refinancing risk particularly arising the scheme see note 24, the company also has exposure from a bunching of debt note facility maturities.
to equity market price movements.
The trustee directors are responsible for setting the risk management strategy The companys financing sources should be diversified, for this scheme.
In 2006 this schemes exposure to equity across the international banking and capital markets, market price movements was markedly reduced.
In 2006 the so as to avoid the over-reliance upon a single source, or schemes assets were switched from being predominantly disproportionately large source, of funds from an individual in equities 80% 20% equities bonds to being mostly capital market note issue or bank finance provider.
in corporate bonds 20% 80% equities bonds.
A 10% In autumn 2005, the groups credit rating from Standard movement in equity prices in any one year would give rise & Poors was reduced from BBB with negative outlook to a 20.0 million movement in scheme assets and thus a to its current level of BBB.
Following the publication of the corresponding movement in the underlying scheme deficit.
groups preliminary results at the end of February 2008, Shortly after this asset switch, the scheme also undertook Standard & Poors has placed the groups rating on negative inflation and interest rate hedging actions.
This outlook change primarily reflected the together with the closure of the scheme to future accrual increased business risk of the group as a result of the recent with effect from September 2006 were undertaken so as to issues at City Link.
We continue to target a stable BBB increase the likelihood that the schemes assets together rating in the medium-term as we believe that this strikes an with the companys agreed future contributions would be appropriate balance between an efficient capital structure sufficient to meet its anticipated financial commitments as represented by a low weighted average cost of capital, to existing and future pensioners.
The company has agreed a schedule of future company contributions with the liquid access to the capital markets and reasonable pricing.
At 31 December 2007, the group had approximately 544.9 million of undrawn committed bank credit facilities.
INTEREST RATE RISK The company is in compliance with the financial and other The policy is to manage interest rate exposures on a covenants within its committed bank credit facilities as well 12-month rolling basis measured quarterly.
Unless as all obligations relating to the notes issued under the otherwise agreed by the board, a minimum of 50% of the companys estimated future interest rate exposures should Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme.
indd 42 27 3 08 02:58:14 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review be fixed or capped for a minimum period of nine months TREASURY RISK forward.
Additionally, in the event that the companys The company utilises financial instruments to manage interest cover measured by the ratio of adjusted operating financial risks that arise naturally from its business profit to net interest payable is forecast to fall below 4.75 the operations.
Only group treasury personnel are authorised board will be required to approve a remedial action plan.
to deal such instruments on behalf of the company.
The board has set strict policies for the use of such instruments.
Some 80% of the groups net borrowings are currently at The companys policy is to ensure that their use shall be: fixed rates of interest for 2008.
Thereafter, in the event that interest rates rise or fall by 1% p. a. simultaneously across strictly limited to the management of known or anticipated the groups borrowings, the net interest payable by the financial exposures which arise from the companys group would then correspondingly increase or reduce existing or planned commercial operations: by approximately 2 million on an annualised basis.
only undertaken by suitably qualified or experienced group treasury staff: FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK undertaken only after efforts have been taken to avoid Foreign exchange risk can arise as follows: the need for use of such derivative instruments to manage the groups financial exposures: 1. from retranslation of overseas business profits into the limited to the management of interest rate or foreign sterling functional reporting currency of the company: exchange exposures i. e. no equity related or commodity 2. from retranslation of assets and liabilities of overseas hedging shall be undertaken without specific board approval : companies into the functional currency of the company: undertaken only after the preparation of clear 3. from cross-border trading transactions of group documentation which explains the purpose for the companies: and use of the specific derivative and its proposed financial 4. from the use of currency denominated borrowings and accounting treatment: financial instruments used to finance business operations.
capped by the maximum approved counterparty limit The company has a policy of not hedging foreign exchange for that transaction: and translation risks outlined in 1 and 2 above.
Further, the subject where relevant to detailed hedge effectiveness company has a policy of not hedging foreign exchange risks testing by group treasury, through to maturity of the arising from cross-border trading activities given that these transaction, if designated and documented as a hedge are immaterial.
at the outset of the transaction.
The company policy is to fund its business operations CREDIT RISK centrally with borrowings that are substantially The company limits its exposure to credit risk on financial denominated 90% or greater in the same actual or effective instruments by ensuring, where appropriate, that instruments currencies, and in the same proportion as the groups used are subject to International Swaps and Derivatives forecast cash flows generated by the business.
Association market standard legal documentation.
The use of either actual currency borrowings or The board also sets maximum counterparty approval currency swaps is permitted.
Currency swaps economically change the actual currency of borrowing into an effective amount, borrowed in a different limits for individual financial counterparties.
Currency swaps will be used in preference to actual currency are reviewed and varied to take account of changes to the borrowings when the all-in cost is cheaper than the alternative currency underlying credit rating of individual credit counterparties borrowings and or they enable a closer match to the companys debt as required.
indd 43 28 3 08 09:26:19 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review ACQUISITIONS ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The group acquired businesses in the year for a net The financial statements included in this annual report consideration of 201.0 million.
have been prepared and presented under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The groups accounting policies are set out on Details of the businesses acquired and the revenue pages 71 to 78. and operating profit therefrom are set out in note 30 to the accounts.
The group has adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, the complementary amendment to IAS 1, PENSIONS Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures The groups IAS 19 net pension asset was 50.0 million at and IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, the end of 2007 compared with a deficit of 118.8 million minimum funding requirements and their interaction at December 2006.
The group has a number of small during the year.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective defined benefit schemes outside the UK but the principal 1 January 2009 has not been adopted in 2007. scheme The Scheme is in the UK which had an asset of 63.9 million at December 2007 compared with a deficit of 108.3 million a year ago.
The principal reason for the reduction in the deficit is due to pension contributions of 80.6 million and a change in the underlying financial assumptions in particular the yield on AA-rated corporate bonds rose significantly and the long-term outlook for inflation increased.
Overall, this led to a lower value being placed on liabilities at the end of the year resulting in a gain of some 117.6 million.
During the year, equity markets increased but returned less than assumed and bond markets ended relatively flat and returned approximately in line with assumed.
The swaps also increased in value.
Overall, this led to a loss on assets of around 11.9 million.
Experience losses on liabilities were 14.0 million and 80.6 million was paid into the scheme during the year.
