Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 40 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Finance Directors review Andrew Shilston Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 41 Governance Financial statements Restructuring charges of 52 million 2006 In civil aerospace, it is common for a customer Results for the year 47 million, which were incurred for ongoing to take options for future orders in addition to Underlying profit before tax increased by operational improvements, were included rm orders placed.
Such options are excluded 13 per cent to 800 million 2006 705 million, within operating costs.
and underlying earnings per ordinary share were 34.06p 2006 29.81p.
Basic earnings On the basis described below, underlying profit In defence aerospace, long-term programmes per ordinary share were 33.67p 2006 57.32p.
before tax was 800 million 2006 705 million.
are often ordered for only one year at a time.
The adjustments are detailed in note 2 on In such circumstances, even though there page 77. may be no alternative engine choice available Summary to the customer, only the contracted business Underlying sales increased by six per cent.
The published profit before tax reduced is included in the order book.
to 733 million from 1,391 million in 2006.
Engine deliveries in the civil aerospace This is primarily due to reduced benets from Aftermarket services agreements, including business were broadly at at 851 in 2007. the unrealised fair value derivative contracts, TotalCare packages, represented 28 per cent of There was a change in the mix, a reduction lower benefit from foreign exchange hedge the order book having increased by 3.2 billion in the deliveries of large Trent engines was reserve release and nally the recognition in the year.
These are long-term contracts where balanced by increased deliveries of smaller of past service costs for UK pension schemes, only the first seven years revenue is included in engines for the corporate and regional all of which are excluded from the calculation the order book.
As a consequence, new engine of underlying performance.
revenues reduced by seven per cent in The Group is exposed to uctuations in foreign 2007.
Underlying civil aerospace services Aftermarket services currency exchange rates and commodity price revenues grew by 11 per cent.
The Group continues to be successful in movements.
These exposures are mitigated developing its aftermarket services activities.
Underlying defence aerospace sales through the use of currency and commodity These grew by nine per cent on an underlying increased by four per cent, with a six per derivatives for which the Group does not apply basis in 2007 and accounted for 55 per cent cent increase in original equipment sales hedge accounting.
and a three per cent increase in services revenues.
As a result, reported earnings do not reect In particular, TotalCare packages in the civil the economic substance of derivatives that aerospace sector now cover 55 per cent, Underlying marine sales increased have been closed out in the financial year, by value, of the installed eet.
TotalCare by 19 per cent, with continued strong but do include unrealised gains and losses packages cover long-term management of growth in the oshore oil and gas on derivatives which will only aect cash the maintenance and associated logistics for support market sector.
ows when they are closed out at some point our engines and systems, monitoring the Underlying energy sales were at, in the future.
equipment in service to deliver the system with a 15 per cent increase in services availability our customers require with Underlying earnings are presented on a basis revenues, osetting a decline in original predictable costs.
The pricing of such contracts that shows the economic substance of the equipment sales.
Revenues and Groups hedging strategies in respect of costs are recognised based on the stage of transactional exchange rate and commodity completion of the contract, generally measured Underlying aftermarket services revenues grew price movements.
Further information is by reference to ying hours.
The overall net by nine per cent to 4.3 billion and have grown included within key performance indicators position of assets and liabilities on the balance by ten per cent per annum compound over on page 20 of this report.
sheet for TotalCare packages was an asset of the past ten years.
Service revenues accounted A final payment to ordinary shareholders 550 million 2006 393 million.
for 55 per cent of total revenues.
of 8.96p in the form of B Shares is proposed 84 per cent of sales were to customers outside making a total of 13.00p per ordinary share Cash the UK.
2006 9.59p, a 35 per cent increase over the Cash inow during the year was 562 million total payment in 2006.
Underlying profit margins before nancing 2006 491 million before the special injection costs were relatively at with improvement of 500 million in to the UK dened benefit in original equipment demand, continuing Order book pension schemes.
Continued growth in growth in services sales and our focus on cost The order book at December 31, 2007, underlying profits and good cash conversion reduction mitigating headwinds caused by at constant exchange rates, was 45.9 billion was supported by further increases in customer commodity price ination and an adverse 2006 26.1billion.
deposits and progress payments in the year, trend in our achieved US dollar exchange rate.
increasing by 332 million, and a benefit of This included rm business that was announced Underlying nancing amounted to 32 million 41 million from year-end currency revaluations.
but for which contracts had not yet been signed 2006 43 million, comprising net interest Total cash investments of 598 million in plant of 7.1 billion 2006 1.7 billion.
6 million and risk and revenue sharing and equipment and intangible assets and partnersnance cost 26 million.
payments to shareholders of 97 million represent the major cash outows in the period.
Tax payments increased in the year to 71 million 2006 25 million.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 42 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Finance Directors review continued As a consequence average net cash was The Group has developed a robust financial Pensions 350 million 2006 150 million.
The net cash position over the previous four years as strong As for 2006, the charges for pensions are balance at the year-end was 888 million market positions, increasing market share and calculated in accordance with the requirements 2006 826 million.
a continued growth in aftermarket revenues of IAS 19 Employee Benets.
have driven growth in profitability and cash As the Group had previously announced, generation.
The review was conducted in the Taxation during 2007 the trustees of each of the UK context that the business model will continue The overall tax charge on the profit before tax dened benefit schemes undertook a review to strengthen as our portfolio broadens further was 133 million 2006 397 million a rate of of their investment strategies, in consultation and the aftermarket business opportunity 18.1 per cent 2006 28.5 per cent.
As a result, revised investment expands, all delivering increasingly resilient strategies have been adopted that seek to and predictable financial performance.
The tax charge was reduced by 35 million reduce the economic risks arising from each in respect of the adjustment of deferred tax The length of the investment cycles within scheme.
The impact on the asset allocation balances to reect future lower corporate tax which our products and services operate, and of each scheme from the implementation of rates in the UK and Germany and 22 million the long-term relationships that we maintain the revised investment strategies has been to in respect of the expected benefit of the with our customers and suppliers all mean that reduce the equity allocation and increase the UK research and development tax credit.
it is crucial to build and retain a strong balance xed income allocation.
Each scheme has In addition, 22 million of provisions for prior sheet on which to continue to compete in appointed a liability-driven investment asset yearstax liabilities were written back following the future.
The Group benets from many manager to hedge the majority of the interest settlement of a number of outstanding opportunities to deliver long-term growth by rate and ination risks associated with the tax issues.
continuing to invest in products, technology, pension liabilities, using swap contracts backed and improved routes to market.
These activities The tax charge on underlying profit was by short-term money market assets.
Under the require both financial strength and continued 193 million 2006 190 million a rate of terms of the swap contracts, each scheme investment in the business, not always at a time 24.1 per cent 2006 27.0 per cent.
The reduction is committed to paying London Inter-Bank of the Groups choosing.
mainly reects prior yearstax provisions no Oered Rate LIBOR to its counterparties longer required as noted above.
in exchange for xed or ination-linked cash In 2007, external events have been less positive, inows to match in large part an actuarial with the dollar weakening signicantly against The operation of most tax systems, including projection of future benefit payments to all major currencies and with a major crisis the availability of specic tax deductions, means scheme members.
in the global banking industry.
confidence that there is often a delay between the Group amongst consumers and in businesses has tax charge and the related tax payments, to the Following agreement of the revised investment been eroded and the significant volatility seen benefit of cash ow.
strategies with the trustees of each scheme, in global markets at the start of 2008 reinforces the Group has paid additional contributions of The Group operates internationally and is the Boards opinion that financial exibility is 500 million to the principal UK pension schemes.
subject to tax in many diering jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group is routinely Further information and details of the pensions The review has concluded that the overall subject to tax audits and examinations charge and the dened benefit schemes strength of the business and its future prospects which by their nature can take a considerable assets and liabilities are shown in note 18 justify a significant increase in the payment to period to conclude.
Provision is made for to the financial statements.
The Board is therefore proposing known issues based on managements deficit, after taking account of deferred tax, that payments to shareholders for 2007 will, interpretation of country specic legislation of 88 million 2006 681 million.
Changes in aggregate, be 35 per cent higher than and the likely outcome.
in this net position are aected by the 2006.
Subsequent payments are expected to assumptions made in valuing the liabilities The Group seeks to minimise its tax burden in a increase progressively in the light of the Groups and the market performance of the assets.
manner which is consistent with its commercial future performance.
objectives and meets its legal obligations and The change in investment strategies agreed The Board will be seeking shareholder ethical standards.
While every eort is made with the trustees of the principal UK schemes agreement at the 2008 AGM to amend to maximise the tax eciency of its business is expected to lead to lower volatility of the the method used to make payments transactions, the Group does not use articial Groups net pension position for the future.
to shareholders, this is described further structures in its tax planning.
The Group has in the Report of the directors on page 48. regard for the intention of the legislation Strategic financial review concerned rather than just the wording itself.
Following the successful completion of The Group is committed to building open Investments the UK dened benefit pension scheme relationships with tax authorities and to follow The Group continues to subject all investments restructuring, a review of the Groups financial a policy of full disclosure in order to eect to rigorous examination of risks and future strategy with reference to the manner the timely settlement of its tax aairs and to cash ows to ensure that they create and quantity of shareholder remuneration, remove uncertainty in its business transactions.
All major investments and the structure of the balance sheet has require Board approval.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 43 Governance Financial statements The Group has a portfolio of projects at dierent They share risk and investment, bring expertise Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost stages of their life cycles.
Discounted cash ow and access to markets, and provide external of sales and increase as the related programme analysis of the remaining life of projects is objectivity.
Some of our joint ventures have sales increase.
These payments amounted to performed on a regular basis.
Sales of engines become substantial businesses.
in production are assessed against criteria proportion of the debt of the joint ventures The classication of financial RRSPs as financial in the original development programme is secured on the assets of the respective instruments has resulted in a liability of to ensure that overall value is enhanced.
companies and is non-recourse to the Group.
315 million 2006 324 million being recorded in Gross research and development investment the balance sheet and an associated underlying amounted to 824 million 2006 747 million.
Risk and revenue sharing nancing cost of 26 million 2006 27 million Net research and development charged to recorded in the income statement.
partners RRSPs the income statement was 381 million 2006 RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad In the past, the Group has also received 370 million.
The level of self-funded investment portfolio of engines, thereby reducing the government launch investment in respect in research and development is expected to exposure of the business to individual product of certain programmes.
The treatment of this remain at approximately five per cent of Group risk.
The primary financial benefit is a reduction investment is similar to non-financial RRSPs.
The impact of this investment of the burden of research and development on the income statement will reect the mix R&D expenditure on new programmes.
and maturity of individual development Risk management The related R&D expenditure is expensed programmes and will result in a similar level of The Board has an established, structured through the income statement and the initial net research and development reported within approach to risk management.
The risk programme receipts from partners, which the income statement in 2008.
Investment committee see Report of the directors reimburse the Group for past R&D expenditure, in training was 30 million 2006 30 million.
has accountability for the system of risk are also recorded in the income statement, management and reporting the key risks and Capital expenditure on property, plant as other operating income.
The Director and equipment was 304 million 2006 of Risk reports to the Finance Director.
RRSP agreements are a standard form of 303 million.
The Groups policy is to preserve the resources co-operation in the civil aero-engine industry.
upon which its continuing reputation, They bring benets to the engine manufacturer Intangible assets viability and profitability are built, to enable the and the partner.
Specically, for the manufacturer The Group carried forward 1,761 million corporate objectives to be achieved through they bring some or all of the following benets: 2006 1,460 million of intangible assets.
the operation of the Rolls-Royce business additional financial and engineering resource: This comprised purchased goodwill of processes.
Risks are formally identied and sharing of risk: and initial programme 801 million, engine certication costs and recorded in a corporate risk register and its contribution.
As appropriate, the partner also participation fees of 354 million, development subsidiary registers within the businesses, supplies components and as consideration costs of 364 million, recoverable engine costs which are reviewed and updated on a regular for these components, receives a share of the of 162 million and other intangible assets basis, with risk mitigation plans identied long-term revenues generated by the engine of 80 million.
programme in proportion to its purchased programme share.
Total capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is expected to Financial risk The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP increase modestly in 2008.
The Group uses various financial instruments agreements.
In general, partners share financial in order to manage the exposures that arise investment in the programme: they share from its business operations as a result of market risk as they receive their return from Partnerships movements in financial markets.
All treasury future sales: they share currency risk as their The development of eective partnerships activities are focused on the management and returns are denominated in US dollars: they share continues to be a key feature of the Groups hedging of risk.
It is the Groups policy not to sales nancing obligations: they share warranty long-term strategy.
Major partnerships are trade financial instruments or to engage in costs: and, where they are manufacturing or of two types: joint ventures and risk and speculative financial transactions.
There have development partners, they share technical revenue sharing partners.
been no significant changes in the Group's and cost risk.
Partners that do not undertake policies in the last year.
development work or supply components are Joint ventures referred to as financial RRSPs and are accounted The principal economic and market risks Joint ventures are an integral part of our for as financial instruments as described here.
continue to be movements in foreign currency business.
They are involved in engineering, exchange rates, interest rates and commodity In 2007, the Group received other operating manufacturing, repair and overhaul, and prices.
The Board regularly reviews the income of 50 million 2006 57 million, financial services.
They are also normal business Groups exposures and financial risk primarily in respect of the Trent 1000 engine structures for companies participating in management and a specialist committee programme.
also considers these in detail.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 44 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Finance Directors review continued All such exposures are managed by the No new borrowing facilities were entered into Currency risk Group Treasury function, which reports to the during 2007 and 340 million of borrowing The Group is exposed to movements in Finance Director and which operates within facilities matured during 2007.
As at December exchange rates for both foreign currency written policies approved by the Board and 31, 2007 the Group had total committed transactions and the translation of net assets within the internal control framework described borrowing facilities of 1.5 billion 2006 and income statements of foreign subsidiaries.
in the Report of the directors.
There are no material debt facility The Group regards its interests in overseas maturities until 2011.
The maturity prole of the subsidiary companies as long-term investments.
borrowing facilities is staggered to ensure that Counterparty credit risk The Group has tended to manage its translational renancing levels are manageable in the The Group has an established policy towards exposures through the currency matching context of the business and market conditions.
A common of assets and liabilities where applicable.
There are no rating triggers contained in any framework exists to measure, report and control The matching is reviewed regularly.
Appropriate of the Groups facilities that could require the exposures to counterparties across the Group risk mitigation is undertaken where material Group to accelerate or repay any facility for a using Value at Risk and fair value techniques.
given movement in the Groups credit rating, The Group assigns an internal credit rating and no material impact on the Groups interest The Group is exposed to a number of foreign to each counterparty, which is assessed with charge would be expected to arise from a currencies.
The most significant transactional reference to publicly available credit movement in the Groups credit rating.
currency exposures are US dollars to sterling information, such as that provided by Moodys, and US dollars to Euros.
Standard & Poors, and other recognised market The Group continues to have access to all the sources and is reviewed regularly.
The Group manages its exposure to major global debt markets.
movements in exchange rates at two levels: Financial instruments are only transacted with counterparties that have a publicly Credit rating i Revenues and costs are currency matched assigned long-term credit rating from where it is economic to do so.
The Group The Group subscribes to both Moodys Standard & Poors of Aor better and from actively seeks to source suppliers with the Investors Service and Standard & Poors for Moodys of A3 or better.
relevant currency cost base to avoid the risk its ocial publicised credit ratings.
As at or to ow down the risk to those suppliers December 31, 2007 the Groups assigned that are capable of managing it.
Currency Funding and liquidity long-term credit ratings were: risk is also a prime consideration when The Group nances its operations through Rating agency Rating Outlook Category deciding where to locate new facilities.
a mixture of shareholdersfunds, bank Moodys A3 Stable Investment US dollar income converted into Sterling borrowings, bonds, notes and finance leases.
grade represented 25 per cent of Group revenues The Group borrows in the major global markets in 2007 2006 26 per cent.
US dollar in a range of currencies and employs derivatives Standard AStable Investment income converted into Euros represented where appropriate to generate the desired & Poors grade four per cent of Group revenues in 2007 currency and interest rate prole.
As a long-term business, the Group attaches The Groups objective is to hold financial significant importance to maintaining an ii Residual currency exposure is hedged via investments and maintain undrawn investment grade credit rating, which it views as the financial markets.
The Group operates committed facilities at a level sucient to necessary for the business to operate eectively.
a hedging policy using a variety of ensure that the Group has available funds to financial instruments with the objective meet its medium-term capital and funding The Group's objective is to maintain an of minimising the impact of uctuations obligations and to meet any unforeseen Acategory investment grade credit rating in exchange rates on future transactions obligations and opportunities.
The Group holds from both agencies.
cash and short-term investments which, together with the undrawn committed facilities, Market exchange rates enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
2007 2006 Short-term investments are generally held as US$ per bank deposits or inAAArated money market Year-end spot rate 1.991 1.957 funds.
The Group operates a conservative Average spot rate 2.001 1.844 investment policy which limits investments to high quality instruments with suitable per counterparty diversication.
During 2007, the Year-end spot rate 1.362 1.484 Group did not experience any losses related to its investments as a result of the US subAverage spot rate 1.461 1.467 prime crisis.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 45 Governance Financial statements The permitted range of the amount of cover Where exposures arise, the strategy has been, Sales nancing taken is determined by the written policies set and continues to be, to assume where possible In connection with the sale of its products, by the Board, based on known and forecast liquid forms of nancing commitment that may the Group will, on some occasions, provide income levels.
be sold or transferred to third parties when the nancing support for its customers.
The forward cover is managed within the involve the Group guaranteeing nancing for parameters of these policies in order to achieve customers, providing asset-value guarantees Note 23 to the financial statements describes the Groups objectives, having regard to the AVGs on aircraft for a proportion of their the Groups contingent liabilities.
Groups view of long-term exchange rates.
expected future value, or entering into There were no material changes to the Groups Forward cover is in the form of standard leasing transactions.
gross and net contingent liabilities in this foreign exchange contracts and instruments The Group manages and monitors its sales respect in 2007. on which the exchange rates achieved are finance related exposures to customers and dependent on future interest rates.
The Group products within written policies approved by may also write currency options against a Accounting standards the Board and within the internal framework portion of the unhedged dollar income The consolidated financial statements have described in the Report of the directors.
at a rate which is consistent with the Groups been prepared in accordance with International The contingent liabilities represent the long-term target rate.
At the end of 2007 the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted maximum discounted aggregate gross and Group had US$9.4 billion of forward cover by the EU.
In 2007, the Group has adopted net exposure that the Group has in respect 2006 US$10 billion.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and the of delivered aircraft, regardless of the point Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial in time at which such exposures may arise.
The consequence of this policy has been to Statements.
These changes both relate to maintain relatively stable long-term foreign The Group uses Ascend Worldwide Limited as disclosure and have no impact on the reported exchange rates.
Note 16 includes the impact of an independent appraiser to value its security results.
Other new standards, amendments to revaluing forward currency contracts at market portfolio at both the half-year and year-end.
standards and interpretations eective in 2007 values on December 31, 2007, showing a value Ascend provides specic values both current do not have a significant eect on the Groups of 379 million 2006 554 million which and forecast future values for each asset in the financial statements.
will uctuate with exchange rates over time.
These values are then used The Group has entered into these forward A summary of other changes, which have not to assess the Groups net exposure.
contracts as part of the hedging policy, been adopted in 2007, is included within the The permitted levels of gross and net exposure described above, in order to mitigate the accounting policies in note 1 to the financial are limited in aggregate, by counterparty, by impact of volatile exchange rates.
product type and by calendar year.
The Group's gross exposures are divided approximately 55:45 Interest rate risk Share price between AVGs and credit guarantees.
They are The Group uses xed rate bonds and oating During the year the Companys share price spread over many years and relate to a number rate debt as funding sources.
The Groups policy increased by 22 per cent from 448p to of customers and a broad product portfolio.
is to maintain a proportion of its debt at xed 546p per share, compared to a 20 per cent The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales rates of interest having regard to the prevailing increase for the aerospace and defence sector finance related exposures and risk management interest rate outlook.
To implement this policy and a four per cent increase for the FTSE 100. activities.
Each nancing commitment is subject the Group may utilise a combination of The Companys shares ranged in price from to a credit and asset review process and prior interest-rate swaps, forward-rate agreements 444p in January to 570p in July.
approval in accordance with Board delegations and interest-rate caps to manage the exposure.
The number of ordinary shares in issue at the of authority.
end of the year was 1,820 million, an increase The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing Commodity risk of 39 million of which 24 million related to share model to assess risk and exposure.
The Group has an ongoing exposure to the options and 15 million related to conversion price of jet fuel and base metals arising from of B Shares into ordinary shares.
Costs and exposures associated with providing business operations.
The Groups objective nancing support are incorporated in any The average number of ordinary shares in is to minimise the impact of price uctuations.
decision to secure new business.
The exposure is hedged in accordance with The Group seeks to minimise the level of Andrew Shilston parameters contained in written policies set Finance Director exposure from sales finance commitments by: by the Board.
February 6, 2008 the use of third-party non-recourse debt where appropriate: the transfer, sale, or reinsurance of risks: and ensuring the proportionate ow down of risk and exposure to relevant RRSPs.
Each of the above forms an active part of the Groups exposure management process.
