CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REVIEW MALCOLM WYMAN Performing against our Key performance indicators KPIs Volumes SABMiller has a clear strategic focus, with The adjacent chart shows the groups strategic priorities four strategic priorities, as noted in the Chief organic growth in lager volumes for each Executives review.
Management uses a of the last three years.
The groups growth range of KPIs to monitor progress against in each year is significantly ahead of the these priorities.
Some of the most important growth rate of the global beer industry.
measures used are: This years results demonstrate the operating Volume growth on an organic basis: strength of our business and our recent volume increases reflect access to growth Growth in revenue on a reported and markets by the groups businesses.
Total organic constant currency basis: beverage volumes, including carbonated soft Growth in volumes of premium brands drink CSD volumes, grew by 10% on an also called worthmore brand volumes organic basis and 23% on a reported basis in North America : to 272 million hectolitres hl.
Within this total, lager volumes at 216 million hl were Volume growth of selected international up by 10% on an organic basis and 23% and regional premium brands outside on a reported basis.
Particularly strong their home markets: growth in lager volumes was recorded in Organic constant currency EBITA growth Latin America, Europe and Africa and Asia.
Organic lager volume growth and EBITA margin progression: and % Revenue Various non-financial metrics attributable Our revenue growth reflects the groups 12 to functional areas.
success in expanding its volumes while also achieving judicious price increases and 10 Certain KPIs are discussed in further detail improving the mix of products sold.
The below within the review of the current years 8 adjacent chart illustrates the organic growth financial performance.
Other non-financial KPIs in group revenue for each of the last three are included in the Chief Executives review 6 years with each years performance shown or in the Operations review.
4 Selected disclosures of results on an Group revenue, including share of associates, organic, constant currency basis are made 2 was US$20,645 million.
This represents an in order to exclude the effects of acquisitions increase of 11% on an organic, constant and investments, net of disposals and 05 06 07 currency basis and mirrors the growth in changes in exchange rates on the groups volumes.
Real price mix gains were Source: SABMiller plc 2007 results.
Organic results exclude the first 12 achieved, principally in Europe and South months results in the case of acquisitions Africa, but were offset by the inclusion in and investments and the last 12 months Group revenue growth % group revenue of the fast growing Asia results from disposals.
Constant currency Organic constant currency basis operations where prices per hectolitre results have been determined by translating and mix impacts are generally at lower 12 the local currency denominated results for levels than the group average.
the year ended 31 March 2007 at the 10 exchange rates for the comparable period Currency movements during the year in the prior year.
reduced reported revenue marginally as, 8 against the US dollar, the South African rand weakened and offset favourable impacts 6 from the Polish zloty and Czech crown.
11% 4 Transactions completed in the financial year Increase in group revenue on an in India as well as in South America in the 2 organic, constant currency basis.
prior year had the effect of increasing reported revenue by 11.5%.
05 06 07 Source: SABMiller plc 2007 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Financial Officers review For a full financial glossary, visit 18 www.
com en gb Investors Financial glossary or see our definitions on page 140 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information EBITA margin performance % 2006 2007 Organic constant currency basis 30 25 20 15 10 5 Latin Europe North Africa & SA Hotels & Group America America Asia Beverages Gaming Source: SABMiller plc 2007 In the five years since the Miller transaction, EBITA margin In the five years since the the group has grown revenue strongly, A key strength of the group is its ability Miller transaction, the group both on an organic basis and by acquisition.
to constantly raise the performance of has grown revenue strongly, The compound annual organic growth rate local businesses, as seen in continued in volumes has been 5%.
The group has improvements in EBITA margin in the both on an organic basis and leveraged volume growth through price chart above, as a group and in most of by acquisition.
The compound and mix benefits to generate compound the divisions.
Revenue growth and further annual organic growth rate in annual group revenue growth of 9% over production efficiencies enabled the group volumes has been 5%.
to continue to meet its objective of ongoing margin enhancement with a further group has leveraged volume EBITA improvement of 20 basis points to 17.4%.
growth through price and EBITA is defined as operating profit before This is dampened somewhat from previous exceptional items and amortisation of mix benefits to generate years improvements as we were impacted intangible assets excluding software.
compound annual group by commodity price pressures, particularly It includes the groups share of associates in the North America business.
revenue growth of 9% over operating profit on a similar basis.
choose to report EBITA in our results in order to accord with the manner in which the group is managed.
SABMiller believes 20 bp that the reported EBITA profit measures give shareholders additional information on trends A key strength of the group is and make it easier to compare different its ability to constantly raise the segments.
Segmental performance is performance of local businesses, reported after the specific apportionment as seen in continued improvements of attributable head office service costs.
The adjacent chart shows the organic The groups reported EBITA margin has increase in EBITA for each of the last three been enhanced by the full-year inclusion years with each years performance shown of South America which has an aggregate in constant currency.
EBITA grew 12% on EBITA margin of 21.4% which is higher an organic, constant currency basis.
than the average for the rest of the group.
Reported EBITA, which includes the impact of currency movements and acquisitions, However the overall country EBITA margin grew by 22% to US$3,591 million.
Growth improvements are less obvious in the group in EBITA reflects the benefits of volume and EBITA margin improvement because the revenue increases as well as productivity.
growth in the lower-margin Asian countries The group has a record of improving its and the mix of profits in our African countries productivity over time, notwithstanding affect the margin of Africa and Asia and the EBITA growth % increases in capital investment and in margin of the group as a whole.
Organic constant currency basis sales and marketing expenses.
Exceptional items 20 Double digit organic constant currency Items that are material either by size or growth in EBITA was achieved by Europe, incidence are classified as exceptional items.
15 Latin America, Africa and Asia, and SA Further details on the treatment of these Beverages, which enabled the group to items can be found in note 4 of the absorb the EBITA decline in North America consolidated financial statements.
10 and still achieve a good overall performance Exceptional charges of US$93 million were for the year.
Of these, $69 million 5 relates to integration and restructuring costs incurred in Latin America of which US$64 million 2006: US$11 million was 05 06 07 incurred in the region and US$5 million 2006: US$4 million in the corporate centre.
Source: SABMiller plc 2007 UK GAAP Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 19 Adjusted EPS and Dividend US cents 120 EPS 100 80 60 Dividend 40 20 03 04 05 06 07 Source: SABMiller plc 2007 Europe has also reported a net exceptional Earnings The board has proposed a cost of US$24 million.
This comprises a On a statutory basis, the groups profit before final dividend of 36 US cents profit on the disposal of land in Naples of tax increased by 14% to US$2,804 million, to make a total of 50 US cents US$14 million less integration costs of reflecting the changes to the constituent per share for the year US$7 million, principally incurred in Slovakia, factors and the exceptional items noted above.
and an adjustment to goodwill at Birra an increase of 14% on The group presents adjusted basic earnings Peroni.
As required under IFRS, to the extent the prior year.
per share to exclude the impact of that a business is able to utilise, after an amortisation of intangible assets excluding acquisition, previously unrecognised deferred software and other non-recurring items, tax assets, an adjustment to goodwill is which include post-tax exceptional items, required with a compensating adjustment to in order to present a more meaningful tax.
During the year we have recorded such comparison for the years shown in the an adjustment for US$31 million and this has consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted been included within exceptional items.
earnings increased by 20% to US$1,796 Finance costs and tax million and the weighted average number Net finance costs increased to US$428 of shares in issue for the year was 1,496 million, a rise of 43% on prior year finance million, up from last years 1,372 million.
This follows an This mainly reflects the issue of shares in increase in net debt in the second half of last October 2005 as partial consideration for year following the Bavaria Group transaction the transaction in South America.
and the refinancing which was undertaken in the current year to enter into further fixed interest rate bonds.
Interest cover, based 10% on pre-exceptional profit before interest and tax, fell from 9.2 times in the prior year Adjusted earnings per share to 7.8 times.
The effective tax rate of 34.5%, before Adjusted earnings per share increased by amortisation of intangible assets excluding 10%.
The groups adjusted earnings per software and exceptional items, increased share also showed double-digit increases above that of the prior year, principally when measured in South African rand and reflecting a different mix of profits across 4% growth in sterling.
A reconciliation the group, including South America for a of basic earnings per share to adjusted full year, and adjustments in respect of prior earnings per share is shown in note 8 to years partially offset by improved tax the financial statements.
efficiencies and some rate reductions in certain jurisdictions.
Dividends The board has proposed a final dividend of Currency 36 US cents to make a total of 50 US cents The South African rand declined against per share for the year an increase of 14% the US dollar during the year and ended on the prior year.
This represents a dividend the financial year at R7.29 to the US dollar, cover of 2.4 times based on adjusted whilst the weighted average rand dollar earnings per share, as described above rate worsened by 10% to R7.06 compared 2006: 2.5 times, based on adjusted with R6.41 in the prior year.
The weighted earnings per share.
The groups target average Colombian peso COP rate is to achieve dividend cover of between declined by almost 2% against the US dollar 2.0 and 2.5 times, relative to adjusted compared to the post-acquisition period of earnings per share.
Details of payment the prior year, whilst the actual financial year dates and related matters are disclosed rate ended at COP2,190 to the US dollar, in the Directors report.
against a rate of COP2,292 at 31 March 2006.
Currencies in Central and Eastern Europe strengthened against the US dollar.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Financial Officers review 20 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Net cash from operations US$m 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 05 06 07 Source: SABMiller plc 2007 Acquisitions The group maintained its net liability position The group achieved operating In the first half of the year the group in working capital with only a marginal cash free cash flow of US$1,485 purchased the Sparks and Steel Reserve outflow from working capital during the year.
Free cash flow brands for a cash consideration of Free cash flow conversion remains strong, US$215 million.
The group also acquired a conversion remains strong, despite capital expenditure increasing by 100% interest in the Fosters operation and despite capital expenditure US$212 million to US$1,244 million and brand in India at a cost of US$127 million.
US$801 million in tax payments both increasing by US$212 million.
During the year we formed Pacific measures including the full-year impact of Beverages, a joint venture with Coca-Cola our businesses in South America.
Overall, Amatil in Australia, to import, market and the group achieved operating free cash flow distribute three of the groups international of US$1,485 million 2006: US$1,069 million.
In Vietnam the groups This represents net cash inflow from operating joint venture with Vinamilk made significant activities less interest paid, taxation paid progress as its brewery near Ho Chi Minh and cash paid for capital expenditure on City moved into production, establishing a property, plant and equipment and intangible platform in this fast growing market.
Operating free cash flow excludes dividends received from associates and In China, our associate CR Snow, has other investments along with cash received continued to consolidate its position as the from the sale of property, plant and countrys largest brewer with the purchase equipment, intangible assets and investments.
of further breweries as well as the remaining 38% minority shareholding in the Blue Sword Capital expenditure has risen by 21%, group which CR Snow did not already own, resulting from higher spending over the prior consolidating its interests in the south west year in most of our businesses which in turn of the country.
During the year the group has reflects capacity increases and spending on also purchased further minority shareholdings containers.
In addition, total capital expenditure in our operating companies in Colombia, for the current year includes a full year for Peru and Ecuador.
South America where container upgrades and capacity expansions required significant Cash flow and investment highlights capital expenditure.
The group has an excellent record of generating cash, as shown in the chart Tax paid has fallen from US$869 million above.
Increases in cash generation reflect to US$801 million, despite the full-year growth in profitability and improvements inclusion of South America in the current in working capital efficiency before interest, year, reflecting the movements in foreign tax payments and investment activities.
exchange, together with certain timing differences in tax payments relating to dividends from South Africa.
Financial structure and liquidity 22% The group finances its operations through Cash generation was again strong cash generated by the business and a with the ratio of EBITDA to revenue mixture of short and medium-term bank at 22%.
credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper.
In this way, the group Cash generated from operations increased avoids over-reliance on any particular by 22% over the prior year to reach liquidity source.
The group seeks to mitigate US$4,018 million.
Net cash inflow from the effect of structural currency exposures operating activities before working capital by borrowing, where cost effective, in the movement EBITDA rose to US$4,031 million same currency as the functional currency of from last years US$3,348 million.
The group borrows principally groups cash flow generation was again in US dollars, SA rand, euros, Polish zloty strong with the ratio of EBITDA to revenue and Colombian pesos at both fixed and both metrics excluding results of associates floating rates of interest.
Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 21 Funding structure 2007 2006 2007 2006 $m $m $m $m Overdraft 187 324 Maturity of borrowings: Borrowings 7,029 7,251 Within one year 1,711 1,950 Derivatives 127 173 Between one to two years 414 247 Finance leases 15 27 Between two and five years 2,984 3,045 Over five years 2,277 2,535 Gross debt 7,358 7,775 Cash and cash equivalents 481 472 Loan participation deposit 196 Net debt 6,877 7,107 Source: SABMiller plc 2007 The group also enters into derivative On 27 June 2006 the group raised The groups gearing has transactions to manage the currency, US$1,750 million of new debt through decreased to 45.8% from commodities and interest rate risk arising the issue of US$300 million of three-year 52.3% at 31 March 2006. from its operations and financing activities.
Floating Rate Notes at US LIBOR plus 30 The group can also purchase call options basis points, along with a US$600 million where these provide a cost effective hedging 6.2% five-year bond and a US$850 million alternative and where forming part of an 6.5% ten-year bond.
The proceeds of these option collar strategy.
The group can also issues were used to refinance amounts sell put options to reduce or eliminate the drawn down under committed facilities cost of purchased options.
It is group policy related to the Bavaria Group transaction, that no trading in financial instruments including subsequent purchases of minority is undertaken.
interests and the restructuring of priority debt.
Exposure to movements in interest rates Further progress has been made in the on group borrowings is managed through restructuring of debt in the Bavaria Group, a combination of fixed rate bonds, interest with US$500 million 144A bonds and rate swaps, cross currency swaps and US$150 million equivalent Colombian forward rate agreements.
It is the groups pesos related to a securitisation programme policy to limit the impact of movements in repaid in May 2006 and in October 2006 interest rates on floating rate debt to 1% of respectively.
group operating profit, excluding exceptional The group has further diversified its sources items, for each 1% change in interest rates.
of financing by launching, on 12 October As at 31 March 2007, 34% 2006: 25% of 2006, a US$1,000 million commercial paper the groups borrowings were at fixed rates programme.
This programme provides the after taking into account interest rate swaps group with a new flexible and cost effective and forward rate agreements.
source of US dollar funding.
The tables above summarise the groups The average loan maturity in respect of the funding structure at 31 March 2007. fixed rate debt portfolio is 4.7 years 2006: Gross debt, comprising borrowings of 4.8 years.
The weighted average interest the group together with the fair value of rate for the total debt portfolio at 31 March derivative assets or liabilities held to manage 2007 was 7.6% 2006: 6.9% reflecting the interest rate and foreign currency risk of currency profile of the debt and movements borrowings, has decreased to US$7,358 in rates in the year.
million from US$7,775 million at 31 March In the prior year, the group had US dollar 2006 as restated for the finalisation of the and sterling private placement notes in issue South America acquisition balance sheet.
As part of the Net debt comprising gross debt net of refinancing for the Bavaria transaction, cash and cash equivalents and the loan notice was given to repay all of these notes.
participation deposit has decreased to These amounts included an early redemption US$6,877 million from US$7,107 million at penalty of US$13 million, included in interest 31 March 2006 as restated reflecting the payable but treated as an adjusting item for cash generated by the group less capital adjusted earnings purposes in the prior year.
The groups gearing presented as a ratio of debt equity The group uses cash in hand, cash from has decreased to 45.8% from 52.3% at operations and short-term borrowings to 31 March 2006 as restated.
As at 31 March 2007, the group had cash and cash equivalent investments of US$481 million 2006: US$472 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Financial Officers review 22 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our strong financial structure gives us Accounting policies and definitions From March 1999, the FTSE adequate resources to fund ongoing The principal accounting policies used 100 has produced a TSR of business along with medium-term flexibility by the group are shown as note 1 to the 31% to 31 March 2007 while to invest in appropriate growth opportunities financial statements.
Note 1 also includes and manage the balance sheet.
The group recent accounting developments, none of the group has delivered a TSR has US$3,426 million in undrawn committed which is expected to have a material impact of 217% in sterling terms over borrowing facilities 2006: US$4,030 million.
Balance sheet profile In addition, note 1 details the areas where a As outlined above, the group has continued high degree of judgement has been applied to enter new markets to strengthen its in the selection of a policy, an assumption positions through additional acquisitions or estimates used.
These relate to the and investments.
These transactions have assumptions used in impairment tests of altered the balance sheet profile of the carrying values for goodwill and intangible group and details are given in note 27 to assets: estimates of useful economic lives the consolidated financial statements.
and residual values for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: assumptions Total assets increased to US$28,736 million required for the calculation of post-retirement from the prior years US$27,115 million.
benefit obligations: and judgements in There was also a marginal increase of relation to provision for taxes where the tax US$53 million in equity earnings attributable treatment cannot be fully determined until a to minorities less balances acquired as part formal resolution has been reached with the of minority interest acquisitions.
Goodwill increased by US$436 million, as In the determination and disclosure of a result of foreign exchange on goodwill reported sales volumes, the group denominated in currencies other than the US aggregates the volumes of all consolidated dollar and on the acquisition of the Fosters subsidiaries and its equity-accounted India business and the various minority associates, other than associates where interests acquired.
The finalisation of the primary responsibility for day-to-day South America acquisition balance sheet management rests with others such as has been reflected as a restatement to the Castel and Distell.
In these latter cases, 2006 position and is detailed in note 28 and the financial results of operations are equity increased provisional goodwill, previously accounted in terms of IFRS but volumes recognised, by US$275 million.
Although contract brewing Intangible assets increased by US$305 million volumes are excluded from total volumes, primarily due to the acquisition of brands turnover from contract brewing is included including the Sparks and Steel Reserve within group turnover.
brands in North America and Fosters Translation differences on non-dollar assets in India.
and liabilities are recognised in the statement Shareholder value of total recognised gains and losses.
It is not The value that a company returns to the groups policy to hedge foreign currency its owners is best measured by total earnings and their translation is made at shareholder return TSR a combination weighted by monthly revenue average rates.
of share price appreciation and dividends returned over the medium to long term.
Recent measures of shareholder return Malcolm Wyman have been affected by the volatility of equity Chief Financial Officer indices.
Nevertheless, since SABMiller moved its primary listing to the London Stock Exchange in March 1999, the FTSE 100 has produced a TSR of 31% to 31 March 2007 while the group has delivered a TSR of 217% in sterling terms over the same period.
Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 23
