Financial review of some 30m and a 13m adverse currency translation effect primarily as a result of the weak US dollar.
These were offset by a better than forecast first time contribution from Illovo, another strong performance from Primark and good progress in many of our food and ingredients businesses.
The disposal of properties, plant & equipment resulted in a profit of 8m which compares with 10m last year.
A net loss of 39m, including goodwill written off of 27m, arose on business disposals during the year, primarily our Scandinavian food distributor and the commodity food polyols business in the US.
Finance expense less finance income of 35m compares with a charge of 14m last year.
This year-on-year increase of 21m results primarily from the cost of acquisition of Illovo at the end of last year and a substantial capital investment programme.
Other financial income of 26m includes 25m of net pensions nancing income, being the expected return on assets in the groups pension schemes less the charge on pension scheme liabilities, and a 1m net foreign exchange gain on nancing activities.
profit before tax increased from 419m to 508m.
Last years result included an exceptional charge of 97m for the costs of closing two British Sugar factories.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items, amortisation of non-operating intangibles and profits and losses on the sale of businesses and xed assets, profit before tax increased 10% from 559m to 613m.
The group invested a net 489m in capital Taxation expenditure and acquisitions during the year.
The tax charge of 108m included an underlying charge of 153m, at an effective tax rate of 25.0% on the adjusted profit before tax described above.
The effective tax rate has reduced from last years 26.8% as a result of an increase in the profits subject to lower tax rates and the prospective effect of the reduction of tax rates in the UK and elsewhere on deferred tax carrying values.
The overall tax charge for the year benefited Group performance from a 30m 2006 13m credit for tax Group revenue increased by 13% to 6,800m.
relief on the amortisation of non-operating Operating profit, adjusted to exclude exceptional intangible assets and goodwill arising from items, the amortisation of non-operating asset acquisitions.
This credit, together with intangibles and profits on the sale of property, the tax effect of the other exceptional items, plant & equipment, increased by 11% to has been excluded from the calculation 622m.
The strength of sterling continued of adjusted earnings per share.
to have an adverse effect on the translation of our overseas results.
At constant currency, Earnings and dividends revenue increased by 16% and profit by 13%.
Earnings attributable to equity shareholders increased by 68m to 369m and the weighted The improvement in adjusted operating profit average number of shares in issue remained before exceptional items was delivered despite at 790 million.
Earnings per ordinary share the adverse impact of sugar regime reform increased by 23% from 38.1p to 46.7p.
22 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 A more consistent measure of performance Cash ow Following the merger of the British Sugar and is provided by the adjusted earnings per share Net cash ow from operating activities was Associated British Foods pension schemes which excludes exceptional items, profits on 696m compared to 419m last year.
This in April 2006, the company agreed with the the sale of businesses and fixed assets and increase reects a positive working capital pension trustees to make two payments the amortisation of non-operating intangibles movement year on year of 184m.
of 14.5m to eliminate the funding deficit, net of any tax benefit.
Adjusted earnings per at that date, in the British Sugar section of share increased by 4% from 50.9p to 52.9p.
The group invested a net 489m in capital the newly-merged scheme.
The first payment expenditure and acquisitions during the year.
was made in October 2006 and the second The interim dividend was increased by 4% to 6.5p Capital expenditure amounted to 420m of which in October 2007.
A full actuarial valuation of and a final dividend has been proposed at 13.0p 175m was spent on the acquisition of new the combined scheme is planned to take place which represents an overall increase of 4% for stores and the retting of existing Primark stores.
with the normal triennial cycle in April 2008. the year.
In accordance with IFRS, no accrual The balance was used to upgrade, expand or Total contributions to dened benefit plans has been made in these accounts for the proposed build new manufacturing facilities including in the year amounted to 61m 2006 48m.
dividend which is expected to cost 103m commissioning of the new biofuels plant at and will be charged next year.
The dividend British Sugars Wissington factory, construction For dened contribution schemes the charge is covered, on an adjusted basis, 2.7 times.
of a new factory in Poland for Blue Dragon and for the year is equal to the contributions made, rationalisation of the Ovaltine factory in Switzerland which amounted to 24m 2006 21m.
Balance sheet and the ACH oils plant at Jacksonville in the US.
Non-current assets increased by 327m Financial reporting standards and to 4,719m including 2,642m of property, 150m was spent on the acquisition of Pataks, accounting policies plant & equipment.
The increase was driven a 20% interest in Jordans and a number of There have been no changes to International by acquisitions which added 168m and smaller businesses to complement our Grocery Accounting Standards this year that have capital expenditure of 420m.
58m was realised a material impact on the group accounts.
on the disposal of the Scandinavian distribution To determine the market value of the assets business and SPI Foods in the US resulting We have rened our policy of excluding backing the Primark business we have obtained in a net cash outow on acquisitions and intangible amortisation from the calculation of an independent valuation of its freehold and disposals of 92m.
The amortisation long leasehold properties.
The net book value charge in respect of intangible assets that arise at the year end was 579m and the valuation Financing on a business combination, non-operating on a vacant possession basis is 1,002m.
This years acquisitions were nanced in part intangibles, will continue to be excluded from This valuation increases to 1,262m with the by the surplus cash funds that have historically the adjusted profit and earnings measures.
benefit of the Primark covenant.
These assets been managed by professional investment Amortisation arising on intangibles that are continue to be included in the accounts at managers.
All such funds have now been purchased in the ordinary course of business, their depreciated historic cost.
Cash and cash equivalents totalled operating intangibles, such as licences and 411m at the year end and were managed information technology expenditure, is charged Working capital, including tax accruals, during the year by a central treasury to adjusted operating profit.
department operating under strictly controlled of operating intangibles has historically been guidelines, which also arranges term bank excluded from the adjusted measures hence Net borrowings were 311m at the year end finance for acquisitions and to meet short-term there has been no need for restatement.
working capital requirements, particularly for the sugar beet and wheat harvests.
Post balance sheet events A currency loss of 28m arose on the translation The acquisition of certain of the European into sterling of the groups non-sterling net assets.
At the beginning of the year the company assets of Gilde Bakery Ingredients, and the This resulted from the continued strengthening renanced its external borrowings and disposal of our German yeast business, was of sterling against the US dollar year on year.
negotiated a multicurrency $1.2bn syndicated agreed on 2 October 2007.
The acquisition loan facility with its existing banking group, of the operations in Spain, Portugal and The groups net assets increased by 282m with a term of five years including two one-year Germany is dependent on clearances by the to 4,464m.
412m was borrowed relevant competition authorities.
Gilde will under this facility at the year end, drawn down continue to operate these businesses until Despite the high level of investment made this in euros, 248m, and US dollars, 164m.
competition clearance has been received.
year in acquisitions and capital expenditure, the return on capital employed for the group Pensions John Bason was consistent with last year at 18.8%.
Pensions are accounted for in accordance with Finance Director Return on capital employed is dened as IAS 19 Employee benets.
The total pension operating profit before exceptional items and expense for the year was 71m compared the amortisation of non-operating intangibles with 67m last year.
expressed as a percentage of average capital employed for the year.
On an IAS 19 basis, the net surplus employee benefit assets less liabilities in the groups dened benefit pension schemes increased from 127m last year to 276m this year benefiting from more favourable market conditions.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
