Business review continued Aerospace disposal Financial review On 4 May 2007 Smiths completed the sale of its aerospace business Accounting policies and Times Microwave Systems Inc. TMS to General Electric The accounts in this report are prepared under International Financial Company.
Smiths received proceeds of 2.6 billion on completion.
Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU.
This disposal was approved by shareholders at an EGM on The accounting policies used in preparing these accounts are set out 20 February 2007.
It generated a profit on sale of 1.5 billion.
Aerospace The 2007 financial year ended on 31 July.
The 2006 financial year Smiths Aerospace comprised two principal business units ended on 5 August 2006.
Aerospace Systems and Aerospace Components.
Aerospace Systems designed, manufactured and provided in-service support for digital, Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates electrical power and mechanical systems for both the military and Applying accounting policies requires the use of certain judgements, commercial markets.
Aerospace Components supplied high-value assumptions and estimates.
The most important of these are set out components to the principal aircraft engine manufacturers.
TMS, previously reported within Specialty Engineering, was included The uncertainty affecting the estimation of provisions has increased as part of the sale.
TMS products included components for military following the commutation of certain insurance policies in respect and commercial aerospace, shipboard and wireless applications.
See legal issues section page 16 for details.
Smiths Aerospace, headquartered in London, had approximately Taxation 11,500 employees and operated manufacturing facilities in five The tax charge for the year represented an effective rate for continuing countries.
Smiths Aerospace developed organically and through the operations of 25.1% on the headline profit before taxation, compared acquisition of Lear Siegler in 1987 and the merger with TI Group in to 25.6% in 2006.
The rate reduced due to taking advantage of global 2000. tax incentives, the tax-efficient use of capital and active tax compliance Background to the sale management.
On a statutory basis, the tax charge on continuing The Board decided that the agreed price recognised the high quality activities was 53m.
of the business of Smiths Aerospace together with Smiths substantial The fundamental tenets of the Smiths approach to taxation are investment in aerospace technology.
The sale accelerated the delivery to enhance the Companys competitive position on a global basis, of value to shareholders.
while engaging with tax authorities around the world on a basis of Smiths continuing businesses serve strong and growing markets.
full disclosure, full co-operation and full legal compliance.
The Board The Board believes that the continuing Group has enhanced financial considers and approves the management of the Companys tax affairs characteristics and is well positioned to generate substantial returns.
in the context of the Companys commercial objectives.
Return of cash to shareholders Accordingly, Smiths seeks to build open relationships with tax Following completion of this sale, the Board returned 2.1 billion authorities to bring about timely agreement of tax affairs and to shareholders.
This cash return was approved by shareholders to remove uncertainty on business transactions.
In summary, the Companys taxation strategy is to mitigate the burden The return of cash was carried out using a B share scheme, giving of taxation in a responsible manner for competitive advantage, and, Shareholders a choice as to the form in which they receive their in this way, to enhance long-term shareholder value.
proceeds from the return and the timing of such return.
The B shares Cost of capital and return on shareholders funds have been admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Smiths uses its weighted average cost of capital as one measure B shareholders were able to elect between receiving a single dividend to appraise both internally-generated investment opportunities and of 365p per B share, accepting an offer to sell their B shares for 365p acquisitions.
During 2007, the Companys weighted average cost of per B share or retaining their B shares.
B shares on which a dividend capital WACC increased from 8% to 9%.
payment was made converted into deferred shares which have a The after-tax headline return on shareholders funds for continuing negligible value.
It is currently expected that JPMorgan Cazenove, operations, including goodwill set-off against reserves, was 14.9%.
acting as principal, will make a final purchase offer to acquire the 4.9 In order to adjust for the Aerospace disposal, this ratio has been million retained B shares for 365p each, free of all dealing expenses calculated using the closing net assets adjusted for movements in and commissions, on or around 17 April 2008, although there can be goodwill set-off against reserves relating to the continuing operations.
no guarantee that such an offer will be made.
The 2006 Group return on shareholders funds was 13.6%.
Immediately after the allotment of the B shares, a capital reorganisation was undertaken.
Existing ordinary shares were subdivided and consolidated so that Shareholders received two new ordinary shares for every three existing ordinary shares they owned at 5.00 p. m. on 15 June 2007.
14 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Retirement benefits Treasury As required by IFRS the balance sheet reflects the net surplus or The aim of Treasury management in Smiths is to ensure a robust and deficit in retirement benefit plans, taking assets at their market values prudent financial profile while driving value throughout the Company at 31 July 2007 and evaluating liabilities at year-end AA corporate to attain the businesss full potential.
With this goal in mind, Treasury bond interest rates.
aims to reduce the cost of capital by optimising financial liabilities with the support of world-class banks.
The year-end retirement benefit position was: Smiths continues to apply centralised treasury management over 2007 2006 its financial risks, operating within a strong control environment.
The Company uses financial instruments to raise money for its operations Funded plans: and to manage the related financial risks.
Smiths neither speculates UK plans funding status 113% 105% nor trades in derivative financial instruments and all financial US plans funding status 92% 84% instruments are properly recognised on the balance sheet.
The Board Other plans funding status 83% 68% has approved a Treasury Policy, which governs the financial risk profile, and a treasury compliance report is presented annually to the m m Audit Committee.
Surplus deficit : The objectives of the treasury function remain the same as in previous Funded plans 297 75 years and are explained in further detail below.
To deliver the liquidity requirements of the businesses Total surplus liability 183 52 cost-effectively.
The Group aims to minimise the level of surplus cash but, where Company contributions to the funded pension plans were 103m surpluses arise, tight controls apply to ensure that they are securely 2006: 110m.
In 2007 special contributions were made totalling placed with highly-rated counterparties and are available for 56m, including 21m in respect of the aerospace disposal.
In 2006 redeployment at short notice.
The Company is required under IFRS a 61m special payment was made to facilitate UK scheme mergers.
to show gross borrowings and cash under its cash pooling arrangements, despite these balances being netted for interest Full details of the retirement benefits are shown in note 10. purposes, which exaggerates the Companys surplus cash balance.
Exchange rates Local working capital needs and capital expenditure requirements The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling at are typically funded by local bank facilities.
The net assets are translated at year-end 2.
To manage the central funding demands and provide a low cost rates.
The principal exchange rates, expressed in terms of the value of debt.
of sterling, are shown in the following table.
The Companys funding requirements are largely driven by acquisition 2007 2006 activity and met by centrally arranged debt finance.
Smiths has net debt as at 31 July 2007 of 588m 2006: 923m with average maturity Average rates: of 4.5 years 2006: 5 years and at an average effective interest rate US Dollar 1.95 1.79 Dollar weakened 9.0% after interest and currency swaps of 5.8% 2006: 5.6%.
Through the Euro 1.48 1.46 Euro weakened 1.5% use of interest rate swaps, Smiths maintains a broadly even mix of Year-end rates: fixed and floating rate debt.
US Dollar 2.04 1.91 Dollar weakened 6.7% Euro 1.49 1.48 Euro weakened 0.4% Credit ratings are BBB Baa2 with Standard & Poors and Moodys respectively.
The ratings fell after the aerospace disposal and Dividend policy consequential return of cash to shareholders, reflecting Smiths An interim dividend of 10.5p per share was paid on 27 April 2007. increased exposure to industrial products with short sales order A final dividend of 23.5p per share is proposed.
cycles and higher relative anticipated gearing.
Information on the return of cash to shareholders is set out in the 3.
To develop and maintain strong and stable banking aerospace disposal section page 14. relationships and services.
Smiths has a core group of eleven leading global banks and financial The 31 July 2007 balance sheet includes a 18m liability, and a institutions that competitively tender for treasury business.
Credit matching cash balance, in respect of the B Shares whose redemption exposures to any one bank are carefully controlled.
All business has been deferred.
transacted with the banks is on consistent terms and is fairly allocated.
Smiths objective is to increase dividends annually when trading 4.
To provide reasonable protection from the effect of foreign results and prospects justify it, and, in the long term, for dividend currency volatility.
cover relative to headline earnings of 1.8.
Material cross-border sales or purchase contracts in foreign Goodwill and intangibles currencies are hedged at their inception by appropriate derivative Goodwill on acquisitions has been capitalised since 1998.
Until financial instruments, principally forward foreign exchange contracts 1 August 2004 it was amortised over a maximum 20-year period.
and swaps, with the Groups core banks as counterparties.
Whilst Under IFRS goodwill is no longer amortised but instead is subject the trends of foreign currency movements cannot be eliminated, to annual reviews to test for impairment.
this hedging programme reduces volatility, protecting cash-flow and margins.
The goodwill balance was tested for impairment in 2007 and 2006.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 15
