qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 8 Operating and financial review Steven Corcoran Michael McGrath Neil OBrien Patrick Rawnsley Chief Executive Commercial Director Group Finance Director Company Secretary 1 Introduction 1 Introduction 08 Speedy Hire Plc is the UKs no.
1 company for tool and equipment hire and a member of the FTSE 250.
We provide hire services to 2 Our year 08 contractors, builders, industry, utilities and the public sector from over 2.1 Summary financial performance 08 350 depots throughout the UK and most recently the Republic of Ireland.
2.2 Shares, earnings and dividends 09 2.3 Operational highlights 09 Our business is structured to service the UK hire market through two 2.4 Tool Hire 09 operating divisions Tool Hire and Equipment Hire.
Our Tool Hire 2.5 Equipment Hire 10 business operates through five regional businesses, each offering the most comprehensive, modern hire fleet available for hire.
Our 2.6 Capital structure and treasury 10 Equipment Hire business supplies specific products to identified markets through a dedicated national network of depots.
3 Our business 11 3.1 Our values 12 This OFR describes the activities of our Company for the year ended 31 March 2007.
3.2 One Speedy 12 2 Our year 4 Our market 12 2.1 Summary financial performance 4.1 New markets 13 Speedy Hire delivered a strong performance in the year, with both 4.2 Market outlook 14 divisions achieving record revenue and operating profits.
These results reflect the benefit of organic growth, acquisitions and start-up businesses, which collectively resulted in a further increase in market 5 Our strategy 14 share for the Group.
6 Doing good business 15 Two important acquisitions were announced in our Equipment division: LCH Generators Limited LCH in May 2006, and Lifting Gear 6.1 Governance and risk management 15 Hire Limited in October 2006.
Both acquisitions have significantly 6.2 Our people 15 contributed to the rapid growth of our Equipment business.
6.3 Our customers 16 6.4 Our suppliers 16 For more information please refer to page 71 of this report.
6.5 Health & Safety 16 6.6 Our shareholders 16 Revenues are now split approximately 50 50 between the Tool and 6.7 Environment 17 Equipment operations.
Increased revenue in the Tool Hire business 6.8 Our communities 17 was driven by continued organic growth, like-for-like growth, the maturing of recently opened sites and the addition of new depots or greenfield sites accompanied with the launch of new products.
7 Looking ahead 17 Here are the main financial performance indicators for the year: Total revenues increased by 31.9% to a record 335.5m 2006: 254.3m.
Like-for-like Tool Hire revenues grew by 7.3%, in line with our fiveyear average.
Equipment Hire utilisation rates remained stable at 67.5% 2006: 70%.
Operating profits before amortisation rose by 31.2% to a record 50.0m 2006: 38.1m.
Margins pre-amortisation remained strong and stable at 14.9% 2006: 15.0%.
Return on capital remained steady at 16.9% by 31 March 2007 2006 17.5%.
Profit before tax grew by 18.6% to 36.4m 2006: 30.7m after charging net financial expenses of 9.5m 2006: 5.9m.
08 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 9 2.2 Shares, earnings and dividends The opening of Centres of Excellence in access, concreting and Speedy shares SDY.
L performed well in the year, posting an light plant and towable products.
increase of 26.5% and resulted in Speedy joining the FTSE 250 in The successful first phase in the rolling out of a new Group-wide June 2006.
The table below shows the movement of the share price integrated IT system.
The third share offer as part of our SAYE shareholder scheme, now with approximately one-third of employees engaged.
Speedy Hire share price for the past year Price in pence 2.4 Tool Hire 1400 The Tool Hire division saw total revenue growth of 16.2% in 2006 07 1200 and like-for-like revenue growth of 7.3%.
This is significantly ahead of the general hire market growth of 6%.
The division generated record 1000 levels of revenue and profit and further increased its market share.
800 Ten greenfield depots were added to our national network providing 600 greater coverage and improved customer service.
Our new operations in Dublin and Belfast are providing a solid platform from 400 which to drive further growth in Northern Ireland and in the Irish 200 Republic.
This will be driven through a mix of additional greenfield depots and via acquisitions.
0 Apr July Oct Jan Mar We continue to target growth through new product areas and by 2006 2006 2006 2007 2007 identifying growth opportunities from within our existing product range, such as concreting, access and engineering.
We have also Five year record Price in pence developed our overall service offering by expanding into non-hire 1400 related activities, e. g. training and consumable product sales.
1200 During the year, we also increased our commitment to Speedy on- 1000 site depots these have become an integral part of our offering, and now number 14 across the UK.
By becoming an integral part of the 800 site team we are better placed to serve the full range of trades and 600 sub contractors whilst also improving our client relationship through the delivery of site specific tool box talks and the provision of 400 tailored products and services for hire or sale.
200 Some of the highlights of the Tool Hire division in 2006 07 include: 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar The opening of 10 new greenfield depots.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 A total of 14 on-site depots with major construction companies.
Establishing new Centres of Excellence to increase specialisation, Earnings per share, adjusted for amortisation of intangible items, customer focus and operational efficiencies in access, concreting increased by 23.0% to 65.00 pence 2006: 52.86 pence.
A final and light plant products.
dividend of 11.5 pence per share has been proposed, for a total of The launch of our Lets clear the air dust campaign to instruct 17.0 pence per share for the year 2006: 14.3pps.
This is an 18.9% employees and customers about the dangers associated with increase that leaves the dividend 3.4 times covered.
The provision of a new range of consumable safety products, e. g. 2.3 Operational highlights site safety glasses, gloves and boots.
These are some of the operational performance highlights of 2006 07: Some of the priorities for the Tool Hire division in 2007 08 include: The Groups organic growth outperformed the UK hire market growth rate by nearly three times.
To continue to strengthen our reputation as the UKs number one We completed our largest-ever acquisition, of LCH Generators hire company.
Limited in May, followed by the acquisition of Lifting Gear Hire Ongoing increase in like-for-like growth in our existing depot network.
Further expansion of the Centres of Excellence to provide a The first full year of operations in Northern Ireland and the Republic national network of specialist centres.
A concentration in our sales teams on customers and markets to The successful launch of our Pumps business in stand-alone promote greater customer service, improve our market knowledge depots with a new product offer.
The launch of a new Group-wide People Plan.
Further developments in our award-winning Safety from the Continued expansion with the opening of 20 new greenfield depots.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 10 Operating and financial review 2.5 Equipment Hire handling and lifting regulations provide opportunities to our Lifting Our Equipment division grew rapidly in 2006 07, both organically and business as clients focus on reducing their exposure to risks through the addition of two major acquisitions.
The 55m acquisition associated with manual handling through the use of mechanical aids of LCH Generators Limited in May 2006 was our largest ever, while that help to alleviate discomfort and prevent accidents associated the acquisition of Lifting Gear Hire Limited in October 2006 has made with lifting and handling injury.
Speedy the leading national lifting business, enabling us to provide additional services in the testing, servicing and inspection of 2.6 Capital structure and treasury customers own fleets whilst broadening our customer base.
We continued our high level of investment in new hire assets in the year.
This commitment significantly contributed to the growth in The operational integration of LCH is now complete.
Net assets increased by 21.1% to 171.1m 2006: of Lifting Gear Hire is proceeding in accordance with the plan.
The 141.3m, as we grew our business and our market share.
Gross strong focus on employee retention and customer management has capital expenditure was 93.3m 2006: 78.3m with a further 69m ensured an orderly brand migration.
of consideration on the acquisitions of LCH Generators Limited and Lifting Gear Hire Limited.
In the year, we have further expanded our presence beyond our traditional construction market into new areas such as events, Shares to a value of 6.8m were issued as part payment for the petrochemicals and telecommunications.
February 2007 saw the acquisitions of LCH Limited and Lifting Gear Hire Limited, to help launch of the first Speedy depot dedicated to safety products.
As maintain a balance between debt and equity and ensure we have part of Speedy Survey, the depot based in East London will support finance available to continue to grow the business.
This equated to construction and infrastructure projects such as the 2012 Olympic 755,000 new shares issued.
Debt increased to 176.2m in the year Games.
The depot provides a full range of safety equipment including 2006: 103m, while gearing was reduced, as planned, from the noise and dust monitors, breathing apparatus, gas monitors and interim period to remain at a comfortable 103% 2006: 73%.
There safety harnesses and is one of the first in the country to hire marine were no changes made to our depreciation policies and the year end safety equipment to support waterside infrastructure projects.
Some highlights of the Equipment division in 2006 07 include: We remain a strongly cash generative company and are confident in our ability to invest for future growth.
Our cash flows are strong and The successful completion and managed integration of the LCH stable and highly predictable as shown by the ratio of EBITDA to and Lifting Gear Hire acquisitions.
This has been consistently around 30% for each of the last Revenue growth of 54.5%.
Gross capital expenditure in the current year included The opening of ten new greenfield depots.
28.2m of growth capex directed at start-up companies, greenfield All four Equipment businesses achieved Investor in People status.
depots and in fuelling like-for-like growth.
Operating cash flow grew The successful expansion of the Pumps business to five dedicated by 10.4% to 84.6m 2006: 76.6m.
In the event of a change in the stand-alone depots.
economy or should construction activity slow for any reason, The extension of our Speedy Space business into modular investment levels would be reduced and the business would accommodation and welfare facilities providing our clients with generate significant free cash flow.
Investment: The Speedy O-meter In 2007 08 the Equipment division will continue to extend the reach Debt of the business into industrial markets and site-based services.
This increasing will bring further opportunities to the Group to provide our full range of Gearing 32% Current Cash stable services into these wider markets.
We are also committed to further growth neutral Market share Gearing improve our approach to asset management through our new IT increasing falling platform and by changes to operational processes.
All of these initiatives should provide us with continued cross-selling opportunities by improving our capabilities to supply a broader range of end-user Cash Debt markets.
generative increasing Gearing Gearing falling The increased awareness of the risks associated with noise and dust increasing % and the subsequent tightening of the relevant legislation will be Turnover significant to our Power business.
Our high level of investment growth ensures we have the most modern hire fleet in the industry and positions us well to benefit from the increased demand in compliant Strategy: Investing for profitable growth equipment.
Other Health & Safety initiatives in regard to manual The Board is comfortable with the increase in debt generated by the acquisitions but remains vigilant to changes in interest rates and wider market conditions.
Our net debt increased by 73.2m compared to the prior year.
We should consider the following when making this comparison: 10 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 11 3 Our business We were virtually debt-neutral in the year pre the acquisitions.
Speedy Hire is predominantly a business to business company Tools revenues grew by 16.2% year on year.
providing a broad range of products for hire to the construction, Significant organic growth was achieved in Equipment.
building and specialist manufacturing industries.
Whilst traditionally 20 greenfield sites were opened across both divisions.
focusing on tool hire, in recent years we have developed our market Start-up businesses were established in Pumps and Ireland.
and complemented our brand, by expanding into other areas of the UK hire market.
Today our business is structured into two divisions During the year the Group increased available bank facilities to Tool Hire and Equipment Hire.
Bank accounts are pooled Group-wide for interest rate calculation and authority limits are set across the Group.
The Tool Hire division operates through five regional companies and has a total of 235 depots.
It offers an extensive range of light hire One of the key indicators of financial performance is Return on products including access towers, podium steps, drills, breakers, Capital.
This return is woodworking tools, heaters, dryers, temporary lighting, small amongst the best in the industry and is substantially ahead of our generators, welders and plumbing equipment for hire.
The Equipment Hire division comprises five businesses that operate Our policy is to hedge against the risk of interest rate movements.
It supplies specialist products for aim to have between 50% and 70% of our indebtedness covered by specific markets such as lifting and material handling, lighting and some form of swaps.
At year end we had a number of swaps electrical power generation, pumps, compressed air systems, covering 122m, with maturity dates of between September 2007 portable accommodation and surveying and measurement and December 2009.
Interest cover was a comfortable 4.8 times instruments.
2006: 6.2 times and we remain well within all our bank covenants.
Structure of businesses Acquisition 1: LCH Generators Limited LCH Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Cost 55m Scotland Northern Southern Western Ireland 32 depots 76 depots 80 depots 46 depots 01 depot Depots 6 Employees 190 Completion date 15 May 2006 Tool Hire Division LCH is a leading provider of temporary power for hire in the UK.
It has a proven track record of growth, driven by a combination Speedy Speedy Hire Direct Speedy Training Support of customer focus, commitment to service, eet investment, a 01 control centre Services skilled workforce and a highly motivated management team.
It operates a national network of sites, and provides services to the off-shore market.
Equipment Division Following the acquisition, we have created three distinct business units within the Speedy Power company: Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Generators: Survey Power Pumps Space Lifting Speedy Compressors: and 19 depots 20 depots 05 depots 23 depots 59 depots Speedy Pumps.
The acquisition has accelerated the development of Speedys existing power generation business, providing over 4,000 Speedy is a national business that can flex its resources and generators available for hire to service construction and commitments to wherever its services are in most demand, industrial customers.
In addition to the existing hire services responding to regional variations in building and economic activity.
income stream, the acquisition brings a new line of revenue in Our management structure is aimed at providing efficient support to the form of fuel management services.
the regions to ensure our customers receive consistently high standards of product quality and service delivery.
We are able to LCH was an already-expanding business, and we have closely monitor our markets and respond quickly to changes in continued this growth strategy post acquisition.
The operational integration process is now complete with a small number of demand.
overlapping depots having been consolidated into our national Power network.
We have also retained almost all of LCHs highly skilled workforce, an encouraging number of whom have chosen to participate in our SAYE shareholder scheme.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 12 Operating and financial review Our approach to customer service differentiates us from our The One Speedy initiative is designed to make it easier for competitors.
Speedy has achieved its success by staying close to its customers to deal with us by providing a single managed process customers and understanding their needs.
We always seek to build when purchasing from two or more product areas.
One Speedy will strong local relationships with our customers, town by town and raise customer awareness about our full product range and provide a region by region.
Our customers both nationally and locally recognise greater consistency in our service with an increased ability to crossthe benefits of our reliable service, depot network and broad product sell.
This will ultimately enable us to serve our customer in an range but perhaps more importantly, they attribute value to the integrated, one-stop, functionally efficient way.
friendliness, knowledge and commitment of our employees, and consider us to be professional, trustworthy and flexible in our Acquisition 2: approach.
Lifting Gear Hire Limited Lifting Gear As we expand the products and services we provide, we continue to Cost 14m identify new areas and find fresh opportunities to deliver better value Depots 34 and customer service.
This diversification has increased Employees 340 complementary purchases by our customers and created unique cross-selling and servicing opportunities for the Group.
Completion date 30 October 2006 Lifting Gear Hire is the UKs leading independent hirer of lifting Our dedication to customer service has resulted in us receiving a equipment to the on-shore market and provider of associated number of awards from various industry associations and specialist services, including the repair, maintenance, testing and publications.
For full details of these awards please turn to page 80 or inspection of lifting equipment.
It enjoys a strong brand visit www.
uk presence in the industrial services and manufacturing sectors.
3.1 Our values Lifting Gears operations and customer base are highly Our commitment is to be the best in everything we do.
We will complementary to Speedy Hires existing specialist lifting business.
The integration will deliver an unrivalled equipment achieve this by putting our values into practice.
and services offer to customers across a spectrum of industries, product requirements and geographical locations.
It These are the Speedy Hire values: also adds new revenue streams to our business offer in the form of testing and calibration services.
Integrity: To be open and honest in all our dealings, and deliver value to our stakeholders through high ethical standards.
The integration process was started immediately after Safety: To be committed to promoting a safe and healthy culture acquisition, and continues apace.
Progress made to date has for our customers and employees.
We have begun a far-reaching investment programme to help improve Lifting Gears operating Social responsibility: To be mindful of the communities in which performance, which is anticipated to yield returns on a par with we operate and our impact on the environment.
the existing Speedy Lifting business in due course.
Reputation: To be committed to maintaining and building upon our reputation and brand.
People: To endeavour to employ the best, encourage and support their development and reward well for success and loyalty through 4 Our market wherever possible a structure of devolved responsibility.
The UK hire market comprises a wide range of different products and Commitment: To work hard to maintain our can do culture, activities.
It is serviced by an array of different-sized and, in the main, which is one of the fundamental reasons for our success.
It is our view that the traditional approach of viewing the market as Tool Hire and Plant Hire has become inappropriate.
3.2 One Speedy The cross-over of products between those companies that were As the range of our activities and geographical spread has increased, traditionally viewed as either a plant hire or a tool hire company, so too has the diversity of our customers and the range of markets in accompanied with the changing approach by the customer to his which we serve.
This has led us to gradually consolidate our brand chosen service provider, determines that these definitions do not and we will continue to align our tool and equipment businesses onto accurately reflect the market.
To try and attain some understanding of this a single IT platform.
changing dynamic, Speedy Hire defined an area as Equipment Hire.
This is the middle area between tool hire and plant hire.
It is our view that in reality there is only one market, the UK hire market, with a total market size of at least 4.5bn.
12 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 13 UK hire market competitor landscape Hewden Select Small Independent Plant Cos Selwood Andrew Sykes A-Plant Lavendon 1 Aggreko VP Group Gap Speedy Hire Bubble size represents 100m relative Travis turnover Perkins UK only Speedy Hire has a differentiated position in the UK market HSS Source: Annual accounts, company websites, Stratton Top 100 tool hire 2007, Brandon Wolesley Hire Management Estimate 1 Aggreko UK spending only DIY Tradesmen Mid-size contractors National accounts % of turnover deriving from contractor and national account customers We estimate that we provide products for hire that account for 4.1 New markets around 3bn of this market value.
This would give us a market share While our prime market is the construction sector in its widest sense, of c. 7.6%.
Latest market research projects that the UK hire market Speedy is increasingly offering its services to a broader range of will grow by 19% between now and 2010, driven by continued high clients with other areas of speciality.
Our strategy of continually levels of activity in the construction market, increased legislation to broadening our business activities and geographical presence means encourage safer working practices and the maintained drive towards our customer base is also highly diverse, with no single customer outsourcing of non-core activities.
These initiatives, when added to accounting for more than 4% of our revenues.
the increasing emphasis on quality assurance, supply chain and Turnover by sector 2006 2007 health and safety standards, determine that customers that operate nationally require consistency in their services.
This has continued the momentum towards hire and away from ownership.
Our national Construction network, modern fleet, range of product and commitment to safety Industrial standards differentiate us from many of our competitors especially Leisure, Retail & Services Infrastructure those that service the more opportunistic or localised hire markets.
Government These dynamics will increase demand for more modern, compliant Other fleet.
We are confident that these changes will continue to provide clear opportunities for our Company.
Our customers play a central role in our product development.
Many of our new products and service initiatives have been driven by the market.
Working in conjunction with our suppliers, we identify solutions to their challenges and devise effective marketing campaigns to help communicate these developments.
A prime Our Equipment businesses have enabled us to provide a more example of this approach led to the implementation of our diverse offering for specific areas of the market.
We are now groundbreaking, hugely successful and award winning Safety from increasingly active in industrial markets, where we provide site-based the ground up campaign.
This has become the platform upon which service support at large-scale facilities such as steelworks and we communicate new products, legislation and operator awareness petrochemical plants.
Our recent acquisitions have also extended our in respect of changes in safe working practice.
reach into the events and industrial sectors with not only a wider product range but also additional services in testing, servicing and We are seeking to offer our customers a service based solution, rather inspection of the customers own fleet.
In Speedy Power we have than just a supply based provision of tools and equipment for hire.
We increased our association with the mobile telecommunications must therefore ensure that our sales and service teams are technically industry, while in Speedy Space we have moved into modular competent to serve them.
This has been instrumental in our decision to accommodation to give our customers solutions that are better switch from geographical to sector-based account management, to suited to their specific requirements.
ensure we understand their industries as well as they do.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 % of turnover deriving from plant hire activities Tools Equipment Plant Independents Jewson 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 14 Operating and financial review Geographically, our market is expanding beyond the UK.
In March 5 Our strategy 2006, Speedy Hire began operating in Dublin.
We believe the Irish Our strategy remains one of growth.
There are clear opportunities market holds potential for Speedy.
Investment in housing and available to us in the UK and Ireland, our business has the confidence infrastructure in the Republic of Ireland is estimated to reach some and is best placed to take advantage of them.
54bn over the next six years, with a resulting increase in construction activity.
Our overall vision is to see Speedy established as a leading UK company a company that is recognised as being a World Class 4.2 Market outlook service provider.
We are firmly of the view that this will not be The UK hire market continues to show robust growth, ahead of the achieved by concentrating on our financial performance alone.
We overall UK economy, and is expected to do so in the foreseeable have to be vigilant to the changing dynamics that are occurring both future.
The outlook for the UK construction industry is also favourable in todays market but perhaps more importantly the challenges that and is reporting steady growth momentum, despite some consumer we will face looking ahead to the market of tomorrow.
As globalisation continues, we are seeing increasing levels of We market ourselves most actively to the regular, high-volume consolidation across a wide range of industry sectors.
In this regard customers who appreciate our range of products, our fleet availability our own market place is no different: the recent acquisition of and the quality of our customer service Source: Lychgate Market Mowlem by Carillion, the continuing Merger & Acquisition activity Research.
A large proportion of Speedy Hires business services displayed by ROK Group and the recently announced merger contractors are engaged in public sector-based projects such as ambitions of Taylor Woodrow and Wimpey are testimony to this fact.
schools, hospitals and other infrastructure projects.
According to the latest DTI information, 34% of construction output in the UK came The industry leaders will demand that their chosen partners are able from the public sector.
The governments commitment to improving to provide quality, consistency and added value to realise preferred UK infrastructure is expected to continue into 2007 and beyond.
A failure to do so runs the risk of disappearing down the route of being perceived as a mere commodity supplier.
Our Our customers are optimistic in their business outlook and continue investment in fleet, our unrivalled operational network and expanding to report strong order books.
In the UK, some 26bn of PFI work range of services ensures that we are increasingly able to display our across 200 projects is in the pipeline to close by 2010, according to proven worth.
There is also further growth linked to the 2012 Olympic Games in London.
Industry information providers Emap Glenigan Our principal objectives in delivering our growth strategy are: have suggested that the capital cost of installing and developing the Olympic venues will be in excess of the estimated 10bn across 250 To operate the most modern comprehensive fleet in the industry.
Why: Because this will be less prone to breakdown, improve We continue to closely monitor market activity.
Looking ahead, availability and ensure our fleet is compliant with current legislation: market circumstances may well present further consolidation overall, ensuring improved client productivity.
opportunities and we are well placed to take advantage of these as they may arise.
In summary we believe Speedy is well positioned in To have an effective national network that provides our full range of the UK hire market and has ample room to continue growing.
Why: This will ensure that our customers have access to more Construction spending % change products in a consistent way wherever they are working, improving 5 productivity and reliability.
4 3 To increase the range of hire services available.
2 1 Why: To enable our customer to obtain more high quality, 0 consistent services, from fewer suppliers increasing cross-selling -1 and improving our client relationship.
-2 -3 To develop new businesses that provide sector specific products for hire.
-4 2005 2006E 2007F 2008F 2009F Why: To open up new markets to our business through the identification of the sub sectors where our penetration is low.
PFI proving our ability to serve customers business critical areas Private Sector better than our competitors we can win their trust to cross-sell Source: CPA, Winter 2006 07 E - Estimate F - Forecast other services, providing natural like-for-like growth.
14 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 15 Our commitment to achieve the ISO14001 environmental Develop complementary non-hire services.
management standard, our closer working with our stakeholder groups, our dedication to Health & Safety and our engagement with Why: Closer client relationship that has a higher value attached the communities in which we operate, underlines our growing focus and improves the value added contribution.
We were delighted, therefore, to achieve a Top 100 ranking in Corporate Responsibility Index, published in the Sunday Maintain product expertise: not to be a jack of all trades, master Times Companies that Count survey.
Mike McGrath, our Commercial Director, has Board responsibility for Why: To ensure that our customer has trust in our knowledge, and Corporate Responsibility Matters.
can rely upon us to service their requirements professionally, thereby improving reliability and customer retention.
Outlined below is our approach to integrating corporate responsibility into key areas of the business.
For more information, including details Strong marketing.
of our KPIs and our performance against specific targets, please refer to the Speedy Hire Corporate Responsibility Report or visit: Why: To position and promote our brand in an effective way but www.
uk also to ensure that we are at the forefront of understanding and responding to the future dynamics affecting the industry from a Our key areas of Corporate Responsibility focus: customer, supplier or legislative perspective.
Governance and risk management Employ a large direct sales force.
Our people Our customers Why: To get face to face with our customers, to understand their Our suppliers needs and their challenges and to provide us with the flexibility to Health & Safety respond to changing demand at a local level, thereby giving us Our communities better market and customer awareness and maintaining contact with the market in its broadest sense.
6.1 Governance and risk management The Speedy Hire Board is committed to maintaining high standards To reward success well.
We monitor and evaluate risk on an ongoing basis as part of our commitment to sustainable business.
Why: Because a highly motivated, engaged workforce is a more For more information on corporate governance and risk management committed one that will go the extra mile for our customers.
practices at Speedy, please refer to page 24 of this report.
To play a leading role in the continued consolidation of the industry.
6.2 Our people Our employees are at the heart of everything we do and their can Why: Because over-supply and lack of investment through a do attitude, hard work and customer service ethos represent a key myriad of small businesses will prevent the industry from attaining Speedy differentiator.
Today, Speedy employs more than 3,800 the most positive influence in supply chain, health & safety and people, an increase in excess of 650 since last year, as a result of our quality improvements.
It is imperative to our business that these values are developed as we grow and we aim to be an To be a promoter and leader in product and service innovation.
employer of choice in our sector.
Why: To be a recognised leader that differentiates through We strive to maintain a knowledgeable, stable and motivated ensuring that we are never complacent and always striving for workforce that increases the satisfaction levels of our customer base improvement in our products and services.
When our customers whilst reducing recruitment and retention costs.
Our policy towards need a solution we want them to think of us first.
our people is founded on simple principles: 6 Doing good business Employ the best Devolve responsibility and authority within defined limits Allow people to get on with their job Reward for success Speedy Hire is committed to meeting the highest standards of responsible business practice in all areas of its operations.
We are an accredited member of Business in the Community and of the FTSE4Good Index.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 16 Operating and financial review In May 2006 Speedy established a strategic and operational We develop training and awareness initiatives, such as our framework for long-term personnel development throughout our successful Safety from the ground up campaign, for our own business, known as the Group People Plan GPP.
In 2006 07 presentations were made to Speedy employees about the control of dust-related At an operational level our initial focus is on recruitment and the hazards.
retention of our drivers and sales people via induction courses.
We also work with our suppliers to ensure that new products At a senior management level, we are introducing a Senior conform to health and safety legislation, providing us with a Leadership Development programme for Speedys top 20 competitive edge.
executives and top 40 senior managers.
We also piloted our first-ever apprenticeship programme in Speedys work in this field has been recognised through numerous coordination with Askham Bryan College in York to provide a awards over the years.
In 2006 alone, Speedy was awarded the Hire National Vocational Qualification programme based around a Association of Europes Awards of Excellence for Best Contribution Modern Apprenticeship in tool and plant maintenance.
to Health & Safety, highly commended by the National Business Awards in the Health & Safety Award category, and received the Additional initiatives for next year include the introduction of an OPERC Award, in recognition of its contribution to Hand Arm employee suggestion scheme and a revised employee satisfaction Vibration awareness.
Accident frequency rate Number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked 6.3 Our customers Our customers are at the heart of everything we do.
Their feedback is 2.0 Riddor considered on an ongoing basis and used to improve our customer Major service.
1.5 1.34 1.06 We seek to protect our customers rights through responsive 1.0 0.90 customer complaint procedures and by meeting the strictest data protection requirements.
At Speedy, we are committed to high ethical 0.5 standards in the areas of marketing, advertising and procurement.
0.26 0.19 0.12 0 6.4 Our suppliers 20042005 20052006 20062007 We believe that building long-term partnerships with our suppliers is key to servicing our customers needs and developing the highest 6.6 Our shareholders standard of products.
Speedy is committed to helping its shareholders develop a clear understanding of the Companys strategy, performance and growth By working more closely with suppliers, we continue to find new potential through clear timely and open communications.
ways to improve efficiency, lower costs for our customers and address growing health & safety and environmental requirements.
2.0 RAW DATA 6.5 Health & Safety The priority we give to health & safety permeates our business at 1.5 DELETE IF NOT NEEDED many levels: We are committed to operating a safe and healthy workplace by 1.0 giving our employees the right information, training and protection and are pleased to report that our Accident Frequency Rate AFR 0.5 continues to fall.
At a Group level, we have a dedicated Health and Safety Committee and each of our businesses has its own health & safety manager.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 17 6.7 Environment 7 Looking ahead We are committed to reducing the day-to-day impact of our Through our proven successful strategy Speedy is well positioned to operations on the environment.
We aim to ensure all our employees grow its share of the UK hire market.
Our customers have expressed will have the information, training and supervision they need in order confidence in their order books and the mid-term outlook of their to act with due consideration for the environment and help our businesses is positive.
customers meet their own environmental targets.
Speedy has achieved its success by staying close to its customers As a Group we comply with the relevant requirements of the and understanding their needs.
Today our customers regard our Environmental Protection Act 1990 and all other domestic legislation brand and our proactive approach to health & safety practices as the pertaining to the protection of human and natural resources.
We also gold standard in the tool and equipment hire business.
encourage good environmental practices within our supply chain and require all contractors working on our behalf to adopt these same We are confident there are further opportunities to expand our standards of care.
business, both geographically and in the range of products and services we offer.
As the leading consolidator of the UK market, we Over the last five years Speedy has sought to reduce its CO will continue to be mindful of new and profitable market opportunities 2 emission levels by improving its vehicle fleet.
Recently, we acquired whenever these emerge.
our first electric vehicles that will be piloted for use in London.
If the pilot is successful we would expect to extend our electric fleet of We look forward to developing more long-term relationships with our vehicles.
customers and our suppliers and to investing more in our business, our products and our people.
We are confident that our business As part of our commitment to look at more efficient ways to run our strategy will continue to deliver success, growth and sustainable business, Speedy is assessing alternative forms of energy for its profitability for years to come.
depot network and the viability of buying energy from renewable sources.
Steve Corcoran Mike McGrath Chief Executive Commercial Director 6.8 Our communities Our community engagement is consistent with our strategic priorities Neil OBrien Patrick Rawnsley we aim to add value to the communities in which we operate and Group Finance Director Company Secretary through this engagement enhance the long-term sustainability of our business.
We undertake many initiatives at Group and depot level and details of these are highlighted in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Key iniatives in 2006 7 included: Active involvement with HMP Garth and Pentonville prisons in their prisoner rehabilitation programmes.
Encouragement of employee volunteering in support of local charities.
Support of Habitat for Humanity, involving sixth formers from local schools rebuilding homes in the tsunami-hit region of India.
Support of Construction Angels to raise money for Cancer UK.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8
