OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 3 Operating and financial review Group summary This Operating and Financial Review OFR 2007 2006 Change analyses the performance of the Tesco Group m m % in the financial year ended 24 February 2007.
Group sales It also explains other aspects of the Groups including value added tax 46,611 43,137 8.1 results and operations, including strategy Underlying profit before tax 2,545 2,277 11.8 and risk management.
Group profit before taxation 2,653 2,235 18.7 Long-term strategy Underlying diluted Tesco has a well-established and consistent earnings per share p 22.36 20.30 10.1 strategy for growth, which has allowed us to Diluted earnings per share p 23.31 19.92 17.0 strengthen our core UK business and drive Dividend per share p 9.64 8.63 11.7 expansion into new markets.
Our four part 03 04 05 06 07 SALES PERFORMANCE strategy to diversify the business was laid down m in 1997 and has been the foundation of Tescos UK performance GROUP success in recent years.
The new businesses 2007 2006 Change UK which have been created and developed over m m % Including 60 weeks the last decade as part of this strategy now have International Sales including value added tax 35,580 32,657 9.0 scale, they are competitive and profitable Operating profit 2,083 1,788 16.5 in fact, they make more profit than the entire Trading profit 1,914 1,752 9.2 Group did in 1997.
Trading margin 5.9% 5.8% The objectives of the strategy are: to grow the core UK business: Rest of Europe performance 2007 2006 Change to become a successful international retailer: m m % to be as strong in non-food as in food: and Sales including value added tax 6,324 5,820 8.7 to develop retailing services such as Tesco Operating profit 324 263 23.2 Personal Finance, Telecoms and tesco.
Trading profit 318 271 17.3 In 2006 07, Tesco has again delivered a strong Trading margin 5.7% 5.3% performance, with all four parts of the strategy contributing.
We have sustained good growth Asia performance 03 04 05 06 07 in the UK and coped well with the challenges 2007 2006 Change UK SALES GROWTH % of recovering competitors, rising costs and a m m % TOTAL cautious consumer background.
In our international Sales LIKE-FOR-LIKE including value added tax 4,707 4,660 1.0 operations we have also made good progress, 53rd WEEK Operating profit 241 229 5.2 completing our largest ever programme of new Trading profit 246 238 3.4 store openings and weathered difficult conditions Trading margin 5.6% 5.4% in some of our largest markets.
In non-food, more customers are choosing to shop with us Adjusted for IAS 32, IAS 39, the net difference between even in a period of more cautious consumer the IAS 19 income statement charge and normal cash contributions for pensions, the Pensions Adjustment Finance spending and we have launched Tesco Direct, Act 2006 and impairment of the Gerrards Cross site.
which extends our reach in selling a broad range Trading Profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit excluding property-related items and replaces the IAS 19 income of products on the internet and via catalogue.
statement charge with normal cash contributions for pensions.
Finally, our retailing services have delivered Trading Margin is calculated using sales excluding value added tax.
another good year, with tesco.
com sustaining Results for the year ended 25 February 2006 include 52 weeks its rapid growth, Tesco Personal Finance making for the UK and the Republic of Ireland and 14 months for the progress in challenging markets and Telecoms majority of the remaining International businesses.
continuing to build its customer base strongly.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Group performance Last April, with our Preliminary Results for 2005 06, and following our transition to IFRS, These results represent very good progress across we introduced an underlying profit measure, the Group and have been achieved by investing which excludes the impact of the volatile nonto improve the shopping experience for cash elements of IAS 19, IAS 32 and IAS 39 customers in our businesses around the world.
principally pension costs and the marking to We have been able to deliver another solid sales market of financial instruments.
Underlying performance, and through good cost control and profit rose to 2,545m in the year, an increase productivity improvements we have grown profits of 13.2% on a comparable 52-week basis.
This faster than revenue and thereby improved includes, as usual, property profits but excludes returns for shareholders.
These improvements both the gain in the year from the Finance Act have been achieved whilst continuing to invest in 2006 pensions adjustment Pensions A-Day 03 04 05 06 07 the long term in the people, assets, processes CAPITAL EXPENDITURE and the impairment charge on our Gerrards and systems, which will enable Tesco to sustain m Cross site.
its success in the future.
GROUP With our Interim Results for 2006 07, we also Group These results are for the 52 weeks ended UK began reporting segmental trading profit, which 24 February 2007, compared with the equivalent excludes property profits and, as our underlying 52-week period for the UK and the Republic of profit measure does, also excludes the non-cash Ireland combined with the 60-week period to element of the IAS 19 pension charge.
In the the end of February 2006 for the majority of current year this measure also excludes the the international businesses.
Where appropriate, Pensions A-Day gain and the impairment and for ease of comparison, total Group and charge on Gerrards Cross.
Group trading profits segmental results are also reported against a were 2,478m, up 11.1% on last year on a comparable 52-week period to 25 February 2006. comparable basis.
Group sales, including VAT, increased by 8.1% Group operating profit rose by 17.7% to to 46.6bn last year 43.1bn and by 10.9% 2,648m.
Total net Group property profits were on a comparable 52-week basis.
At constant 139m, comprising 98m in the UK, a 6m loss exchange rates, sales increased by 7.9% and in Asia and a 47m profit within Joint Ventures 10.8% respectively.
Comparable Basis Statutory Basis 52 weeks vs 52 weeks vs 52 weeks 60 weeks Actual rates Actual rates Constant Actual rates Group sales inc. VAT 46,611m 10.9% 10.8% 8.1% Group profit before tax 2,653m 20.3% 19.9% 18.7% Group operating profit 2,648m 17.7% 17.4% 16.1% Group underlying profit 2,545m 13.2% 12.9% 11.8% Group trading profit 2,478m 11.1% 10.8% 9.6% Trading margin 5.8% 1,228 2,134 1,520 2,285 1,704 2,450 1,795 2,802 1,883 2,990 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 5 International On a comparable 52 week basis, total international sales grew by 17.9% at actual exchange rates to 11.0bn and by 17.4% at constant exchange rates.
Like-for-like sales in International grew by 2.0% in the year, with net new space contributing the remaining 15.4%.
International contributed 564m to trading profit, up 18.0% on last year on a comparable basis, with stable trading margins at 5.7%.
At constant exchange rates, international trading profit grew by 16.5%.
Before integration costs and initial operating losses, trading profit rose by 20.9% and margins increased slightly.
Comparable Basis Statutory Basis 52 weeks vs 52 weeks vs 52 weeks 60 weeks Actual rates Actual rates Constant Actual rates International sales inc. VAT 11,031m 17.9% 17.4% 5.3% 03 04 05 06 07 International trading profit 564m 18.0% 16.5% 10.8% NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL HYPERMARKETS Trading margin 5.7% In Asia, sales grew by 16.8% at actual exchange rates on a comparable 52 week basis to 4.7bn last year 4.0bn.
At constant rates, sales grew by 13.5%.
After charging 0.3m of integration costs and initial operating losses on the Makro stores acquired in Malaysia, Asia trading profit increased by 18.8% to 246m at actual rates last year 207m on a comparable basis and by 14.5% at constant rates.
Before integration costs and initial operating losses, trading profit increased by 14.7%.
Trading margins rose in Asia to 5.6%, driven by strong performances in Korea, Thailand and Malaysia.
Comparable Basis Statutory Basis 52 weeks vs 52 weeks vs 52 weeks 60 weeks Actual rates Actual rates Constant Actual rates Asia sales inc. VAT 4,707m 16.8% 13.5% 1.0% Asia trading profit 246m 18.8% 14.5% 3.4% Trading margin 5.6% In the Rest of Europe, sales rose by 18.7% to 6.3bn last year 5.3bn on a comparable basis.
At constant rates, sales grew by 20.3%.
Trading profit increased by 17.3% at actual rates to 318m last year 271m and by 18.0% at constant rates.
Trading margins reduced slightly, after charging 14.0m of integration costs and initial operating losses on the stores acquired from Carrefour and Edeka in the Czech Republic and Casino in Poland, and with improvements in most of Central Europe, Ireland and Turkey being offset by the continuing effects of a weak economy in Hungary.
Before charging integration costs, trading profit grew by 22.5% and margins rose.
Comparable Basis Statutory Basis 52 weeks vs 52 weeks vs 52 weeks 60 weeks Actual rates Actual rates Constant Actual rates Rest of Europe sales inc. VAT 6,324m 18.7% 20.3% 8.7% Rest of Europe trading profit 318m 17.3% 18.0% 17.3% Trading margin 5.7% UK UK sales increased by 9.0% to 35.6bn last year 32.7bn, with like-for-like growth of 5.6% including volume of 5.0% and 3.4% from net new stores.
Excluding petrol, like-for-like sales grew by 5.6%.
In our stores, we saw modest inflation of 0.2%, as our continued investment in lowering prices for customers was more than offset by the strength of seasonal fresh food prices.
Fourth quarter like-for-like sales growth, excluding petrol, was 5.8%.
This compared with growth of 5.6% in the third quarter.
Including petrol, like-for-like sales grew by 4.9%.
Total sales grew by 8.2% in the quarter, including 3.3% from net new stores.
In the final seven weeks of the financial year, like-for-like growth excluding petrol, was 5.8%, with 4.0% coming from net new stores which includes Tesco Direct.
152 194 273 341 411 6 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Increased productivity and good expense controls have Underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 11.6% enabled us to absorb significant external cost increases in on a comparable basis, to 22.36p last year 20.04p.
the year, arising mainly from higher oil-related costs and Dividend The Board has proposed a final dividend of 6.83p increases in local business taxes.
Start-up costs totalling 42m per share last year 6.10p.
This represents an increase of for Tesco Direct and establishing our operations in the United 12.0%.
As announced with our Preliminary Results last year, States were charged to the UK.
Although the combined we have now built dividend cover to comfortable levels and this start-up losses were a little below our previous guidance of increase in dividend is again in line with growth in underlying 50m, we expect these to increase during the current year, diluted earnings per share, which includes net property profits.
particularly in the US, as we recruit store and depot staff We intend to continue to grow future dividends broadly in line ahead of our planned launch later this year see page 12. with underlying diluted earnings per share growth.
Despite absorbing these additional costs, UK trading profit The final dividend will be paid on 6 July 2007 to shareholders rose 9.2%, with trading margins at 5.9%, similar to last year.
on the Register of Members as at the close of business on 27 April 2007 the dividend record date.
Shareholders now 2006 7 Growth have the opportunity to elect to reinvest their cash dividend UK sales inc. VAT 35,580m 9.0% and purchase existing Tesco shares in the Company through a UK trading profit 1,914m 9.2% Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This scheme replaced the scrip Trading margin 5.9% dividend at the last Interim Results and was introduced to reduce dilution of issued shares and improve earnings per share.
Joint Ventures and Associates Our share of profit net of tax and interest for the year was 106m compared to 82m last Cash flow and Balance Sheet Group capital expenditure year.
Tesco Personal Finance TPF profit was 130m, of which excluding acquisitions rose as planned, to 3.0bn during our share was 65m, down on last year after absorbing higher the year last year 2.8bn.
UK capital expenditure was 1.9bn provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Profits from property last year 1.8bn, including 687m on new stores and 295m joint ventures rose significantly, due to the sale of two stores on extensions and refits.
Total international capital expenditure in which we remain tenants to third parties, realising 47m rose slightly to 1.1bn last year 1.0bn : comprising 0.4bn of property profits from two of our joint venture companies in Asia and 0.7bn in Europe.
The UK total includes 89m of capital invested in establishing In September, we sold our 38.5% equity stake in GroceryWorks, our operations in the United States.
We expect US investment an internet grocery retailing business in the United States US, to move to around the 250m level this year, in line with the to Safeway Inc. which resulted in a profit of 22m.
guidance we issued when we announced our entry to the market last year.
We expect Group capital expenditure this Exceptional items Pensions adjustment Pensions A-Day : year to be around 3.5bn.
In April 2006, a Finance Act revision was agreed.
This change, known as Pensions A-Day, enabled members of our UK defined Cash flow from operating activities, including an improvement benefit scheme to gain additional pension flexibility, altering of 11m within working capital, totalled 3.5bn.
Overall, the our pension scheme assumptions and resulting in a reduction Group had a net cash outflow of 265m during the year, of the future liability by 250 million pre-tax.
Changes in leaving net borrowings of 5.0bn at the year-end, 0.5bn pension assumptions for the Republic of Ireland pension higher than last year.
scheme produced a smaller gain of 8m, bringing the total Return on capital employed In April last year, we renewed exceptional gain to 258m, recognised in the Income our commitment to increasing our post-tax return on capital Statement.
Gerrards Cross: we are facing continuing employed ROCE, having exceeded our 2004 aspiration two uncertainty in respect of our Gerrards Cross site as a result years early.
We set a new target to improve ROCE by a further of the complex legal situation following the tunnel collapse.
The strong performance of the business No decision has yet been taken about the future for this site.
delivered slightly higher ROCE in 2006 07 at 12.6% last However, at year end we have written off the carrying value of year 12.5%, Including the one-off benefit from Pensions our existing asset there an impairment charge of 35m.
This represents good progress are not yet in a position to assess any recoveries or liabilities and was achieved despite carrying the extra start-up costs in respect of ongoing claims.
and investment in the US and Tesco Direct as well as the Finance costs and tax Net finance costs were 126m integration costs and capital employed in our International last year 127m, giving interest cover of 21 times last year acquisitions and increased stake in Hymall.
Total Group tax has been charged at an effective ROCE is on track to meet our new target.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 7 Total Shareholder Return Total shareholder return TSR, At least 1.5bn of our originally planned 5bn of proceeds which is measured as the percentage increase in the share were to be used to buy Tesco shares in the market, initially to price, plus the dividend paid, has increased by 36% in offset future dilution to earnings per share and almost 470m 2006 07, its largest value increase for ten years and the has already been spent in this way.
In light of our enlarged fastest percentage growth rate for three years.
programme of property divestment, we now plan to return a total of at least 3bn of the proceeds to shareholders.
Over the last three years, TSR has grown 87% compared with the FTSE100 average of 58%.
Over five years, the Pensions The provision of Tescos award-winning UK defined increase has been 102% compared to the increase in the benefit pension scheme for our staff remains an important average for FTSE100 companies of just 50%.
It goes to the heart of our values and helps us attract and retain the best people.
We manage and fund our scheme Releasing value from property on an actuarial valuation basis and, as at December 2006, the scheme was estimated to be fully funded, largely as a result As announced last April, we plan to release cash from property of improved asset performance.
through a sequence of joint ventures and other transactions, both in the UK and internationally and return significant value IFRS requires that we value pension scheme liabilities using a to shareholders, either through enhanced dividends through high quality corporate bond yield and calculate the operating the growth in underlying earnings per share, which includes charge in the Income Statement as if invested purely in bonds.
property profits or share buy-backs.
The first of these deals, At February 2007, the IAS 19 pension deficit was just under with the British Airways Pension Fund, which formed part of 670m on a post-tax basis, a significant reduction on last our plan to release some 5bn of funds from property over five year, reflecting Pensions A-Day.
The A-Day change enabled years, was completed during the second half.
A second, larger members of our UK defined benefit scheme to gain additional joint venture transaction was completed with The British Land pension flexibility, altering our pension scheme assumptions Company PLC after the year end.
and resulting in a reduction of the future liability by 250m pre-tax see pensions adjustment on page 6.
Combined, these two transactions involved the divestment to these joint ventures of some 5% of our UK store space.
They realised 1,015m in net proceeds and were completed at very attractive initial yields below 4.5%, whilst also delivering significant property profits from which dividends are paid to shareholders.
The average premium to bookvalue on these transactions has been nearly 100%.
Some of the proceeds have already been used to fund our share buy-back programme.
Importantly, these joint ventures also provide us with the right platform to run our business for customers.
The net bookvalue of our fixed assets is 17bn most of it in freehold stores even after these divestments.
We estimate current market value to be around 65% higher than this.
Given the store of value embedded in our property and the strength of our covenant we have decided to divest more freehold property assets than the 5bn we announced last April.
This is consistent with our commitment to retain the strong asset-backing to our balance sheet and the freehold element of our property base will be maintained above 70%.
8 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Key Performance Indicators KPIs We operate a balanced scorecard approach to managing the business that is known internally within the Group as our Steering Wheel.
This unites the Groups resources around our customers, people, operations, finance and the community.
This enables the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
Some of the KPIs below are tracked through our Steering Wheel and others are tracked as a monitor of investor return.
2007 2006 Sales growth Change in Group sales over the year including value added tax 10.9% 13.2% UK sales growth 9.0% 10.7% International sales growth 17.9% 23.0% International sales growth at constant exchange rates 17.4% 15.5% Profit before tax 2,653m 2,206m Underlying profit before tax 2,545m 2,248m Trading margin UK trading margin 5.9% 5.8% International trading margin 5.7% 5.7% Trading margin is calculated from the operating profit expressed as a percentage of Group revenue sales excluding value added tax.
It is a measure of profit generation from sales and is a comparable performance measure with other companies.
This is how much we made from trade in our stores, taking account of the cost of the products sold, wages and salaries, expenses associated with running the stores, depots and head office, and the cost of depreciation of the assets used to generate the profits.
Net cash outflow inflow 265 m 165m Net cash inflow is the cash received less cash spent during the financial period, after financing activities.
Capital expenditure 3.0bn 2.8bn This is the cash invested in purchasing fixed assets.
UK 1.9bn 1.8bn International 1.1bn 1.0bn Net borrowings and gearing Net borrowings 5.0bn 4.5bn Gearing 48% 48% Return on Capital Employed ROCE 12.6% 12.5% ROCE is calculated as profit before interest less tax divided by the average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
ROCE is a relative profit measurement that not only incorporates the funds shareholders have invested, but also funds invested by banks and other lenders, and therefore shows the productivity of the assets of the Group.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 22.36p 20.04p Underlying diluted earnings per share is the calculation of profit after tax and minority interest divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
It is the amount which could be paid out on each share if the Company decided to distribute all its profits as dividends instead of retaining some for future expansion.
Including the one-off gain from Pensions A-Day, ROCE was 13.6%.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9 2007 2006 Total shareholder return 36.0% 45.8% Total shareholder return is the notional return from a share and is measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the dividend paid.
This is measured over the last five years.
Full year dividend per share 9.64p 8.63p The growth of the dividend per share from one period to the next is important to shareholders since this represents their actual cash return, and is usually paid twice a year.
We monitor a wide range of KPIs, both financial and non-financial.
Across the Group, KPIs are set locally, with oversight from the Executive Directors, to ensure they are tailored to drive the priorities of each business.
Each business operates a Steering Wheel, our balanced scorecard.
During the last year we have made good progress with rolling-out our Corporate Responsibility management system to our International operations.
We report quarterly on social, ethical and environmental matters alongside their Customer, Operations, Finance and People KPIs.
More detail on each country follows in the Operations, resources and relationships section.
The following are some KPIs for the UK and Group operations.
2007 2006 UK market share Grocery market share 21.0% 20.2% Non-food market share 8.0% 7.0% This is measured as the share of all spend by all shoppers through Taylor Nelson Sofres Superpanel Total Till Roll data.
Supplier viewpoint measure 94% 94% We aim to monitor supplier relations through the Supplier Viewpoint Survey.
The target is for over 90% of suppliers to view Tesco as being trustworthy, reliable, consistent, clear, helpful and fair.
Employee retention 84% 83% This measure shows the percentage of employees who have stayed with the business for longer than one year.
It is one measure that we use to monitor employee loyalty and satisfaction and we aim to exceed 80% retention of experienced staff.
Energy consumption 12.5% 5.5% For 2006 07 our target was to reduce energy consumption by 12% 2005 06 5%.
10 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Operations, resources and relationships At the end of February, our international operations were trading from 1,275 stores, including 411 hypermarkets, with a We have continued to make good progress with all four parts total of 40.4m sq ft of selling space.
Nearly 60% of Group sales of our strategy: area is now in International.
Excluding the United States, we grow the core UK business expect to open 442 new stores in our International markets become a successful international retailer during the current year, adding 7.6m sq ft of selling area.
be as strong in non-food as in food, and Returns CROI All our established markets are now develop retailing services profitable and with growing local scale, increasing store maturity and the benefits of investment in central distribution We have done this by keeping our focus on trying to improve now flowing, returns from our International operations are what we do for customers.
We try to make their shopping continuing to rise.
On a constant currency basis, cash return experience as easy as possible, lower prices where we can to on investment CROI for International has increased again help them spend less, give them more choice about how they to 11.5% with our lead markets overall maintaining shop in small stores, large stores or on-line, and seek to bring significantly higher levels.
simplicity and value to sometimes complicated markets.
Asia International Despite challenging economic conditions and political uncertainty in some of our markets, our international In China we trade from 47 hypermarkets, mainly in businesses delivered another good performance.
Sales growth Shanghai, and the first stores in Chinas other large has been strong with like-for-like growth in all but one of our regional markets Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Beijing markets Hungary being the exception and profits have again our first Tesco-fascia store have opened well.
Margins continue to improve, despite range of over 1,000 Tesco own brand lines have been absorbing significant integration costs from the in-market well-received by customers.
Hymalls sales have continued acquisitions we have completed in the year in the Czech to grow strongly up overall by 19% in the year, with Republic, Poland and Malaysia.
strengthening like-for-like sales as the year progressed.
As a result of carrying higher overheads as we invest to We are building-out our store networks more rapidly in existing equip the business to grow faster, it made a small loss markets through a combination of strong organic growth and after tax and interest, of which our share was 6m.
484 stores, with 8.2m sq ft of selling area, were opened during the year, including 76 hypermarkets.
This is In a still subdued retail market in Japan we made progress, four times the amount of new space opened in the UK.
In Rest with modest overall sales growth and a stronger like-for-like of Europe we opened over 4.7m sq ft of space and in Asia performance.
Our focus in the year has been on refining 3.5m sq ft. and developing the trial Express-type stores into a profitable, expandable format and implementing our These numbers included the acquisition of: Tesco in a Box suite of operating systems successfully.
11 Carrefour stores in the Czech Republic in May 2006 as We now plan to push on with a much larger opening part of the asset swap deal announced in September 2005, programme of up to 35 new stores this year.
plus 27 small stores from Edeka in April, which together In Korea, Homeplus continued to do well, with solid sales added 1.2m sq ft or 45% to our space there.
and very strong profit growth in more challenging market 146 Leader Price stores in Poland in December, which conditions than in recent years.
During the year we opened added a total of 1.4m sq ft the equivalent of 29% of 29 new stores and, including extensions, almost 1m sq ft the existing sales area.
Most of our new selling area came from large Eight large Makro stores in Malaysia in January, which hypermarkets, but our development programme is now added 0.9m sq ft of sales area, nearly doubling our broadly-based with nearly 20% coming from store space in the market.
extensions, 21% from compact hypermarkets and the We are keen to participate further in the process of remainder from the roll-out of our successful Express consolidation which is now taking place in many International convenience format, which now has almost 40 stores trading.
We have a strong forward pipeline of new space, markets but we are selective purchasers of assets or businesses.
including plans to double the size of the Express business.
Cash return on investment CROI is measured as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, expressed as a percentage of net invested capital.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 11 Tesco Malaysia has made excellent progress, moving We continued to make progress in Hungary but although strongly through to profitability in the year, delivering overall sales grew, profit performance was below budget.
another year of very strong over 50% sales growth, and The effects of Government austerity measures last August achieving a near-doubling of space helped by the Makro on an already difficult economic and retail environment acquisition, which completed in January.
Substantial refits have been severe.
Consumer spending levels are to the Makro stores have now begun, taking eight to nine significantly down, with non-food categories particularly weeks per store to complete and involving significant affected.
Despite these challenges we have a strong changes to layouts and ranges.
We are developing a market position which we have continued to strengthen good market position in Malaysia with a strong new store by lowering prices, expanding our store network and programme in place for this year which will add a further developing our infrastructure.
We opened 14 new stores 22% of space to our network.
in 2006 07, including 10 hypermarkets, and we plan to add 15% to our total space in the current year.
Political uncertainty in Thailand during the second half of the year produced a difficult business climate.
Nevertheless, Against the background of an improving economy and a Tesco Lotus, which has a strong market position, again consolidating retail industry in Poland, we are making very performed well, delivering good growth in sales and profit.
good progress, with rising sales, profits and returns.
Sales The successful development and roll-out of new small growth has continued to be strong, driven by sustained formats continues and to date, we have 370 stores trading improvement in existing store performance and a growing across four formats, including 75 hypermarkets of which contribution from new space.
The development of our 17 are Value stores.
We also have 266 Express stores 1k around 10,000 sqft, 2k and 3k store formats as part and 29 supermarkets which are proving very popular of an enlarged opening programme is going well.
acquisition of the Leader Price stores from Casino, which was announced last July and completed in December has Europe Our rate of expansion in European markets stepped up accelerated our 1k format expansion and contributed to a significantly in the year with 4.7m sq ft of new space added 37% overall space increase in Poland.
Leader Price stores representing almost 30% growth.
Successful regional initiatives are being converted rapidly to Tesco with, on average, to strengthen our business from pan-European purchasing 25% sales uplifts.
of own brand products and fresh produce to the introduction of the Cherokee clothing range have contributed to further Tesco Ireland delivered another excellent performance with improvements in our competitiveness.
Customer numbers improved profits and another year of strong sales growth are up significantly and this is driving substantial market in existing stores.
Our new store opening programme share gains.
will be substantially bigger this year with 240,000 sq ft, representing growth of over 10%.
The new 740,000 sq ft In the Czech Republic, our business has grown by almost distribution centre at Donabate, in north Dublin, opens this two-thirds in the year and is now one of the leaders in the month.
Our competitive position is also strong and were market.
We again delivered strong profit growth despite investing more for customers for example, our largest competitive market conditions and the challenges of ever programme of price cuts in Ireland, which started last integrating the Carrefour and Edeka acquisitions.
Conversion of the 11 Carrefour stores is almost complete, we have a strong organic store opening programme which In Slovakia the success of our compact hypermarket format will add some 13% to our space in the current year and we and a strong economy have underpinned pleasing growth have begun remodelling our department stores with the in sales, profits and returns.
We now have 25 such stores, first, at Brno, performing well.
representing approaching half of our total space, with more planned.
We introduced our 1k format this year opening the first store at Vrable and we now have six trading with nine more planned this year.
Our organic expansion will add around 15% to our space this year.
12 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Our Kipa business in Turkey, continues to grow strongly The implementation of new checkout technology across and profitably and now has the capability and resources to our stores means that we can now monitor and manage become a national business.
We now have 15 hypermarkets the checkout service customers receive much more trading, with the majority now outside our base in Izmir, precisely by customer, by store and by the hour.
As a including our first store in Thrace, with 24 more planned result, nearly 350,000 more customers a week receive for the current year.
The early introduction of Express in our one-in-front checkout queue promise.
Turkey has also gone well, with 15 stores now trading, On-shelf availability, which we measure using our in-store including three in Antalya.
We have invested in creating picking of tesco.
com orders, has also improved again and the infrastructure for a business of scale initially in more customers are able to buy everything they want when management and systems and also in supply chain, they shop at Tesco.
Although there is still scope to get better with our first major distribution centre at Yasibasi particularly during evenings and on Sundays the most covering 400,000 sq ft, planned to open this month.
marked improvement has been achieved in fresh foods, United States We are on track to open our first stores which has seen a fifth consecutive year of higher availability.
under the Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market banner on Weve also introduced significant changes to our ranges in the west coast of the United States, as planned, later this year.
For example, we are selling Our El Segundo office is now staffed by over 150 people and a much larger Organics range which is now fully integrated the construction of our Riverside distribution centre on the into ranges across our stores with sales up almost eastern edge of Los Angeles LA is on schedule.
Site 40%: we have introduced over 1,000 new premium lines, acquisition for our 10,000 square foot convenience format including a faster pace of new product launches for Finest.
stores is also going well and we expect to be able to open All of our eligible own-brand products now carry our a significant number at launch across the LA, Phoenix, GDA nutritional signpost labels.
We have created a system Las Vegas and San Diego markets.
that is easy to understand and practical to use and recent Recruitment and training of staff for the stores will begin soon sales data suggests we have made a genuine impact on which, combined with the other pre-launch costs and initial customer behaviour, which in turn has helped us to trading losses, will involve a planned rise in estimated US improve and reformulate many Tesco products.
start-up costs to around 65m in the current financial year.
Step-Change We delivered efficiency savings ahead of plan Thereafter, as previously announced, we expect initial trading in the year with 350m achieved through the Step-Change losses to diminish and the business to move into profitability programme, which brings together many initiatives to make during its third financial year of operation.
Our intention what we do better for customers, simpler for staff and cheaper remains to commit some 250m of capital per annum to for Tesco.
Most of these savings are reinvested to improve our the US going forward, although given the phasing of our offer for customers.
We aim to make similar incremental investment and the higher leasehold element of the early savings in the current year.
stores, capital invested last year was lower at 89m.
We will begin formal reporting of US performance separately within our International operations from opening.
Core UK Tesco made further good progress in the UK: coping well with recovering competitors by delivering an improved shopping trip for customers.
UK sales grew by 9.0% in the year, including a like-for-like increase of 5.6%.
Both customer numbers and spend per visit increased.
We have continued to invest in the things that matter for customers and although we can still get better, we have made real improvements to the shopping trip: Our Price Check survey, which compares 10,000 prices against our leading competitors weekly, shows that our price position has improved again during the year for more information see www.
In a market to which food price inflation has returned for the first time in several years, driven by the higher energy costs and strong seasonal food prices, Tesco has invested more than ever in helping to keep prices as low as possible for customers.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 13 New Space We opened a total of just over 2m sq ft of new Tesco Direct Last September, we announced plans to expand sales area, adding a net 7.3% to our UK sales area during our non-food offer substantially and make it more accessible the year in all formats, of which 800,000 sq ft was in store for customers through tesco.
We started extensions, principally for Extra.
We opened another 30 Extra Tesco Direct in a low key way with initially 8,000 products hypermarkets, bringing the total to 147, most of them offered on-line and 1,500 by catalogue, including new developed through extensions to existing stores.
Extra categories such as furniture.
We have now launched a more now represents 37% of our total sales area.
comprehensive offer with 11,000 items on our website, 7,000 of which are in our catalogue and begun the roll-out of several In total, a further 2.1m sq ft is planned to open in the current of our innovative options for customers to order and collect.
As year, of which store extensions will represent over 30%, and well as wider ranges, Tesco Direct provides customers with the a significant proportion of this will be allocated to non-food.
choice of ordering on-line, by phone or in selected stores and 85 new Express stores opened during the year, bringing the market-leading delivery options, including two-hour slots for overall total to 735 and a similar programme is planned for home delivery, the option to pick-up from some stores soon the current year.
to be 200 and very short lead times on furniture orders.
The Non-food Despite a less helpful consumer environment in the customer response so far has been very encouraging.
UK, our general merchandise business has again made very Homeplus The performance of our Homeplus trial non-food good progress, with sales growing significantly faster than in stores we now have six units trading has been pleasing.
Our our core operations and the proportion of our sales represented most recent trial store in Chelmsford, trading from 50,000 sq ft, by non-food rose to 25% excluding petrol.
With our relatively has traded well.
It stocks a general merchandise range similar low market shares in many general merchandise categories, to the assortment offered in larger Extra hypermarkets and is the growing popularity of our offer for customers and the also able to provide more space than the earlier trial stores for scope to expand our stores or sell more though direct channels, promotions and seasonal events.
A further store is planned these areas provide exciting growth opportunities for Tesco.
but no decision has yet been taken on further expansion for Group non-food sales have grown to 10.4bn, including this format.
Sales growth, in the UK alone, was Retailing services Our efforts to bring simplicity and value to 11.6% in the year, with total non-food sales increasing to sometimes complicated markets are behind the success of our 7.6bn included in reported UK sales.
Volume growth was retailing services businesses.
Also underpinning this element again even higher, driven by our ability to pass on lower prices of our strategy is a strong economic model, based around to customers, funded by our growing scale and supply chain leveraging existing assets either our own or a partners so efficiency and the benefits of more direct sourcing in Asia.
that we can simultaneously price our services competitively We have seen strong growth in most large non-food for customers and also achieve high returns for shareholders.
categories, including product groups which have seen flat or Tesco Personal Finance TPF has delivered a creditable reduced overall consumer spending.
Most, but not all of our performance in a difficult financial services market as established categories, which benefit less from new space, a consequence of making higher provisions for bad and grew strongly.
Those which did well included health & beauty doubtful debt.
Profit, net of interest and tax, is 130m where sales increased by 9% and news and magazines, last year 139m of which Tescos share is 65m.
Although we increased market share, sales in conditions in two of TPFs core markets credit cards and entertainment DVDs, CDs etc were weak as a result of the motor insurance remain difficult, but a strong programme growth of internet downloading and deflation.
of new product launches is planned for the current year.
Our newer categories saw strong growth.
com sales continued to grow strongly up by 29.2% grew well up by 16% in a subdued market, partly affected in the year to 1,226m.
Profit, before the start-up costs by unseasonal weather and we made strong market share associated with Tesco Direct also rose strongly by 48.5% gains by volume and value.
Some product groups, which we to 83.4m.
The grocery and wine business now has over have been able to allocate more space to in our larger Extra 850,000 regular customers and more than 250,000 orders stores, did particularly well.
For example, toys and sports goods a week.
were up 30%, consumer electronics sales rose by 35%, stationery and DIY both up by 23%.
14 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Telecoms moved into profit during the year and continued Diversity We try to ensure that at all times and in every to build its customer base successfully through a combination aspect of employment, including recruitment, training, of simple, great value tariffs, good service and innovative and development, everyone receives the same treatment, new products.
Tesco Mobile, our joint-venture with O2, regardless of factors such as gender, age, colour, creed, race, was the fastest-growing pay-as-you-go network in the UK ethnic origin, disability, marital status, religion or belief, trade in 2006, taking almost a 30% share of new business and union membership or sexual preference and orientation.
ended the year with 1.4m customers.
It was also recognised Suppliers To be a successful, sustainable business we have in industry surveys as number one network for overall to ensure that our drive to bring cheaper prices is achieved customer satisfaction.
Strong sales of handsets in the year without compromising our standards, reducing quality, means that Tesco overall is now the UKs largest retailer damaging the environment or harming the suppliers and of branded pay-as-you-go mobile phones.
workers who produce the goods we sell.
So we take a partnership approach to working with suppliers sharing Resources and Relationships our knowledge and listening to suppliers feedback.
This Customers Our customers have told us what they want from includes providing technical expertise, advice and insight an Every little helps shopping trip and this year 46,000 into customer trends and making regular payment, on time.
shared their ideas on how to improve the shopping trip for We are one of four signatories to the UK Governments all customers.
Clubcard also helps us to understand what statutory Supermarkets Code of Practice.
Since the Codes our customers want, whilst allowing us to thank them for introduction we have run tailored training for all Tesco buyers shopping with us this year we gave away over 340m to promote understanding and compliance.
If problems do in Clubcard vouchers.
arise in supplier relationships we aim to air and resolve We dont always get it right but we try to make their shopping them through constructive discussion.
To aid this process trip as easy as possible, reduce prices where we can to help we appointed a Code Compliance Officer to hear formal them spend less and give them the convenience of shopping complaints, confidentially if requested, and we hope that when and where they want in small stores, large stores or our annual Supplier Viewpoint Survey encourages suppliers to on-line.
give us more feedback on our relationships.
Our target is for feedback to show that at least 90% of our suppliers view Tesco Employees With over 400,000 staff in 13 countries, we play as being trustworthy, reliable, consistent, clear, helpful and fair.
an important role in creating employment, fostering skills and generating economic development.
Our people are our most We carry out ethical audits and target ourselves to cover 100% important asset.
Looking after our staff so that they can look of our high risk own brand suppliers and ensure all commercial after our customers is one of the core values of the business.
teams have received training on supply chain labour standards.
We are committed to providing market-leading working Corporate Responsibility As a responsible Company, conditions for our staff and we encourage our suppliers to Tesco works hard to bring real benefits to the communities we do the same.
serve, the environment and the economy.
This is recognised In the UK, we offer our staff a market-leading package of pay through our inclusion in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones and benefits: Sustainability indices.
Employee Share Schemes Through share ownership and share Our fundraising efforts have again delivered great results.
Each incentive schemes, over 165,000 of our people have a personal year we contribute the equivalent of at least 1% of our pre-tax stake in Tesco.
Staff were awarded shares worth a record 77m profits to charities and good causes and a total of 43m was last May under our Shares in Success scheme.
50,000 staff given during 2006 07 in donations, staff time and gifts in kind.
were able to benefit when Save As You Earn schemes matured Our Charity of the Year was Whizz-kids, for which staff and in February, giving them access to shares worth 148m.
Training and Development We are committed to developing our people to bring out the best in everyone and do what we can to enable all our people to reach their potential.
All our staff have access to training programmes and personal development planning to ensure that they have the right skills to do their job.
TNS Prognostics Mobile Satisfaction Survey, Q4 2006.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 15 Community, environment and corporate responsibility alongside the standard ranges, on the same shelves, instead of in a separate section.
We have improved the People tell us they want us to use our size and reach to be a range and this has helped to generate 40% year-on-year force for good in society.
To help us meet this challenge we growth in sales.
decided in 2006 to introduce a new Community Plan.
This is part of our Steering Wheel, setting out objectives that Health the business will deliver.
It will ensure we provide the right We are well on our way to our target of encouraging two resources, energy and focus to meet the expectations of million people to be physically active in events organised our customers and other stakeholders in this area.
or sponsored by Tesco in the build up to the London 2012 We have made significant progress this year on the Community Olympics.
For example, over 240,000 people took part in Plan and on our key objectives of being a good neighbour in the Tesco Great School Run, setting a Guinness World the communities we serve and being fair, responsible and Record in the process, and 750,000 women took part in honest, particularly on the environment.
This has been the Cancer Research Race for Life in 2006 07, which has recognised through our continued inclusion in FTSE4Good been supported by Tesco for the last five years.
and Dow Jones Sustainability indices.
We are the first supermarket to complete front of pack Environment nutritional labelling on all of our 6,600 eligible own-brand products.
We have committed to reduce the amount of packaging on both branded and Tesco own label products by 25% Community and Charities by 2010.
We will also label all our packaging according to We were pleased to be one of the first retailers to enter whether it can be re-used, recycled or composted and into Local Employment Partnerships, a new Government if it cannot, we will label that too.
The first labelled products initiative announced in the recent Budget, whereby we will will be on our shelves by 2008. increase the prospects for unemployed people to get an In the UK, Tesco has achieved an absolute reduction in interesting job and an opportunity to get on.
This builds energy use in our buildings, despite growing sales by 9% on our groundbreaking Tesco Regeneration Partnerships and sales area by over 7%.
We have achieved this by which have revitalised the prospects and opportunities making energy reduction a top priority throughout our for almost 4,000 people including long term unemployed, business from the boardroom through to our staff single parents, disabled and redundant workers, through working in our stores.
our unique job guarantee for everyone who completes our training.
We are beginning the search for a universally accepted and commonly understood measure of the carbon Our Community Conference in partnership with the British footprint of our products covering their lifecycle from Red Cross and the Work Foundation brought together manufacture through to use.
This will enable us to label all voluntary groups, charities, businesses and Government our products so that customers can compare their carbon to explore the role of business in local communities.
footprint as easily as they can currently compare prices or We have raised 3.4m for our 2006 Charity of the Year, nutritional profiles.
Whizz Kidz, which provides disabled children with their own Our Green Clubcard scheme rewarding customers with customised mobility equipment.
This is more than double extra Clubcard points for environmentally friendly behaviour our original 1.5m target, and is the highest amount raised is helping us to meet our target of reducing carrier bags in any Charity of the Year partnership to date.
Over 400m bags have already been saved Our 2007 Charity of the Year is the British Red Cross.
since the scheme launched in August 2006.
As well as aiming to raise 2m, we are also working with We are also encouraging customers to make a difference them to develop a volunteering scheme for our staff, by making green products more affordable.
For example, giving them paid time off to make a positive contribution we have halved the price of energy-efficient light bulbs to local communities.
making them even more cost-effective than traditional light We are helping schools through our Computers for Schools, bulbs over their life-span.
and Sports for Schools and Clubs schemes.
We have now The rapid growth in sales of organic food is testimony to given away over 108m in computer equipment since the fact that people will make greener choices if we give Computers for Schools launched in 1992, and in 2006 07 them the right information, opportunity and incentive.
The gave away over 7.5m worth of equipment and lessons competitive pricing of organic products means that, for through Schools for Sports and Clubs.
many, they are no longer luxury items.
We now sell them 16 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued Suppliers & Farmers We also invest significant resources in ensuring our strategy is communicated well and understood by the parties who are We are committed to increasing the number of local key to delivering it.
The business operates a Steering Wheel products in store.
Regional roadshows in Cornwall, the a balanced scorecard process in all countries and significant Isle of Wight, the North-West and Wales attracted over business units such as Dotcom to help manage performance 300 small suppliers and we have already launched 58 and deliver business strategy.
new lines in our South West stores as a result of the roadshow in Cornwall.
Financial strategy and Group Treasury Risk The main financial risks of the Group relate to the availability of funds to We will help dairy farmers by offering direct contracts to meet business needs, the risk of default by counter-parties to named farmers, raising the price they receive to around 22 financial transactions, and fluctuations in interest and foreign pence per litre, and sourcing more for our Localchoice milk exchange rates.
from local farms this will be sold for slightly more per litre than standard milk so that these smaller producers can The Treasury function is mandated by the Board to manage make returns more in line with the proportionately higher the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business costs of their business.
The function has clear policies and operating parameters, and its activities are routinely reviewed and Risks and uncertainties audited.
The function does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Introduction Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
The real challenge for any business is to identify the principal risks A description of the role of the Finance Committee and and to develop and monitor appropriate controls.
A successful Internal and External Audit is set out in the Corporate risk management process balances risks and rewards and relies Governance section, page 25 of the Annual Report.
on a sound judgement of their likelihood and consequence.
Operational threats and performance risk in the business The Tesco Board has overall responsibility for risk management There is a risk that our business may not deliver the stated and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups strategy in full particularly since, like all retailers, the business is objectives.
Our process for identifying and managing risks is set susceptible to economic downturn that could affect consumer out in more detail on page 24 of the Corporate Governance spending.
The continuing acquisition and development of Statement in this Annual Report.
The key risks and mitigating property sites also forms an intrinsic part of our strategy and factors are set out below.
Business strategy If our strategy follows the wrong direction or We try to deliver what customers want better than our is not efficiently communicated then the business may suffer.
competitors by understanding and responding to their behaviour.
All of our business units have stretching targets We need to understand and properly manage strategic risk in based on the Steering Wheel and the performance of all order to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all our business units is monitored continually and reported monthly stakeholders.
Our strategy is based on a four-part strategy: to the Board.
We manage the acquisition and development of to grow the core UK business, be as strong in non-food as our property assets carefully.
We consider and assess in detail in food, develop retailing services and become a successful every site at each stage of acquisition and development and international retailer.
Pursuit of this four-part strategy has ensure that relevant action is taken to minimise any risks.
allowed the business to diversify.
At a strategic level, diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets has Our aim is to have broad appeal to all customers in our the effect of reducing overall risk by avoiding reliance on a different markets, minimising the impact of changes to the small number of business areas.
However, by its very nature, economic climate.
diversification also introduces new risks to be managed in Competition and consolidation The retail industry is highly areas of the business that are less mature and fully understood.
The Group competes with a wide variety of To ensure the Group continues to pursue the right strategy, retailers of varying sizes and faces increased competition from we dedicate two full days a year to reviewing strategy as well as UK retailers as well as international operators here and overseas.
discussing it at every Board meeting.
The Executive Committee also holds specific sessions on a regular basis.
We have structured programmes for engaging with all our stakeholders including customers, employees, investors, suppliers, government, media and non-governmental organisations.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 17 Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, Policy is reviewed regularly by the Compliance Committee product range, quality and service could have an adverse effect and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
We recognise the on the Groups financial results.
opportunities for competitive advantage through energy efficiency and look for continuous improvement through We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format innovations and better ways to help customers act responsibly in a way that allows us to compete in different markets.
track performance against a range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their shopping trip experience.
We Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of constantly monitor customer perceptions of ourselves and our paramount importance to Tesco as well as being essential competitors to ensure we can respond quickly if we need to.
for maintaining customer trust and confidence.
A breach in confidence could affect the size of our customer base and People capabilities Our greatest asset is our employees.
It is hence financial results.
critical to our success to attract, retain, develop and motivate Tesco has detailed and established procedures for ensuring the best people with the right capabilities at all levels of operations.
We consider our people policies regularly and are product integrity at all times especially for our own-label committed to investing in training and development and products.
There are strict product safety processes and regular incentives for our people such as profit sharing.
We work in partnership with suppliers Planning process helps individuals achieve their full potential.
to ensure mutual understanding of the standards required.
We also carry out succession planning to ensure that the needs The business also monitors developments in areas such as of the business going forward are considered and provided for.
health, safety and nutrition in order to respond appropriately There are clear processes for understanding and responding to changing customer trends and new legislation.
We have to employees needs through our People Management Group, clear processes for crisis management, pulling together expert staff surveys, regular performance reviews, involvement of teams should we need to respond quickly on issues.
trade unions and regular communication of business Ethical risks in the supply chain We do business with a large developments.
number of own-brand suppliers in over 90 countries and the Reputational risk As the largest retailer in the UK, supply chain is made of complex relationships from individual expectations of the Group are high.
Failure to protect the farmers and growers through to processors, manufacturers and Groups reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust distributors.
There is a risk that any part of the supply chain and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the customer might not adhere with the Groups high ethical standards base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
which are set out on our website.
Like other companies we must consider potential threats to To minimise this risk we have a partnership approach to our reputation and the consequences of reputational damage.
working with suppliers providing a certain and growing Emotional loyalty to the Tesco brand has helped us diversify market for their products, regular payments and payments into new areas like retail services and non-food and we on time, and our commitment to sharing our understanding recognise the commercial imperative to do the right thing of customers and changing consumer behaviour.
We also for all our stakeholders and avoid the loss of such loyalty.
have a programme of regular risk assessments and audits The Tesco Values are embedded in the way we do business of suppliers on ethical issues to complement our compliance at every level and our Code of Ethics guides our behaviour work on product safety, quality and capability.
in our dealings with customers, employees and suppliers.
Fraud and compliance As the business grows in size and We engage with stakeholders in every sphere to take into geographical spread, the risk of occurrence of fraudulent account their views and we try to ensure our strategy reflects behaviour by its employees increases.
While the vast majority them.
The launch of the Community Plan has demonstrated of our staff are completely honest, there remains the potential our commitment to tackling a wide range of societal and for fraud and other dishonest activity at all levels of the environmental issues.
We have high level committees including business from shop floor to senior management.
The Group the Corporate Responsibility Committee and Compliance takes extensive steps to reduce this risk.
Relevant accounting Committee to help guide and monitor our policies.
and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
Environmental risks Our key environmental risks are related to minimising energy usage in stores and transportation, waste The Group gives clear guidance on behaviour to employees management and our ability to respond to consumer concerns through the Values and the Code of Ethics.
We develop environmental policy through department undertakes detailed investigations into all areas engaging with key stakeholders and experts in this field to of the business and highlights to the Audit Committee its achieve sustainable growth and minimise our environmental findings.
The Compliance Committee formulates and monitors impacts and the Groups approach is brought together in a the implementation of, and compliance with appropriate consistent manner by the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
policies on key areas of ethical behaviour, including fraud.
18 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Operating and financial review continued IT systems and infrastructure The business is dependent on Joint venture governance and partnerships As we continue efficient Information Technology IT systems.
Any significant to enter into new partnerships and joint ventures as well as failure in the IT processes of our retail operations e. g. barcode developing existing arrangements, there remains an inherent scanning or supply chain logistics would impact our ability to risk in managing these partnerships and joint ventures.
We recognise the essential role that IT plays across the more difficult to guarantee the achievement of joint goals and Group in allowing us to trade efficiently and that we can also we rely on partners to help achieve such goals.
We may also be achieve commercial advantage through implementing IT impacted by reputational issues which affect our partners.
innovations that improve the shopping trip for customers and We choose partners with good reputations and set out joint make life easier for employees.
We have extensive controls goals and clear contractual arrangements from the outset.
in place to maintain the integrity and efficiency of our IT We monitor performance and governance of our joint ventures infrastructure and we share world-class systems from across and partnerships.
our international operations to ensure consistency of delivery.
Financial review Regulatory and political environment We are subject to a wide variety of regulations in the different countries in which The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the we operate because of the diverse nature of our business.
availability of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default Tesco may be impacted by regulatory changes in key areas by counter-parties to financial transactions, and fluctuations in such as planning laws, trading hours, and tax rules as well interest and foreign exchange rates.
These risks are managed as by scrutiny by the competition authorities.
We may also as described below.
The Balance Sheet position at 24 February be impacted by political developments in the countries in 2007 is representative of the position throughout the year.
We consider these uncertainties in the Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations external environment when developing strategy and reviewing by a combination of retained profits, long and medium-term performance.
We remain vigilant to future changes in the UK debt, capital market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and abroad.
As part of our day-to-day operations we engage and leases.
The objective is to ensure continuity of funding.
with governmental and non-governmental organisations The policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange to ensure the views of our customers and employees are funding ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient represented and try to anticipate and contribute to important undrawn committed bank facilities, and a strong credit rating changes in public policy.
so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
Activism and terrorism A major incident or terrorist event The Groups long-term credit rating remained stable during the incapacitating management, systems or stores could impact year.
Tesco Group is rated A1 by Moodys and A by Standard on the Groups ability to trade.
In addition to contingency and Poors.
New funding of 1.8bn was arranged during the plans, we have security systems and processes that reflect year, including a net 0.5bn from property joint ventures and best practice.
At the year end, Pension risks The Groups pension arrangements are an net debt was 5.0bn last year 4.5bn and the average debt important part of our employees overall benefits package maturity was nine years last year six years.
We see them as a strong contributor to our ability to attract and retain good people, our Groups greatest asset.
Management of the assets is delegated to a number of independent fund managers who have discretion to invest in Tesco PLC providing they do not exceed the proportion of the share in the total market.
Since the implementation of IAS 19 there is a risk that the accounting valuation deficit could increase if returns on corporate bonds are higher than the investment return on the pension schemes assets.
The Company has considered its pension risks and has taken action by increasing contributions from April 2006 and by reducing risk in its investment strategy.
The increase in contributions recognises the higher cost of providing pensions including an improvement in life expectancy.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 19 Interest rate risk management The objective is to limit All policies pertaining to risk within TPF are subject to the our exposure to increases in interest rates while retaining the governance procedures of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group opportunity to benefit from interest rate reductions.
Forward and ratified by the TPF Board, which has representation from rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps and collars are both Tesco and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
This has used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
delivered a portfolio of products with strong asset quality.
This The policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and asset quality is maintained through proactive risk management, projected debt interest costs.
At the year end, 2.3bn of debt both at the time of acquisition and ongoing account was in fixed rate form last year 1.5bn with a further 1.0bn maintenance.
of debt capped or collared, therefore 86% 2006 53% The Tesco Group would support its 50% share of any further of net debt is fixed, capped or collared.
Fixed rate debt funding TPF might require to sustain liquidity ratios.
However, includes 693m of funding linked to the Retail Price Index we believe that provisions for bad debts and insurance losses 2006 472m.
supported by re-insurance of significant risks are at This debt reduces interest risk by diversifying our funding prudent levels.
The remaining balance of our debt is in floating Insurance We purchased Assets, Earnings and Combined rate form.
Liability protection from the open insurance market at The average rate of interest paid on a historic cost basis catastrophe level only.
The risk not transferred to the insurance excluding joint ventures and associates this year was 4.8% market is retained within the business by using our captive last year 5.2%.
insurance companies, Tesco Insurance Limited in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland.
Foreign currency risk management Our principal objective Tesco Insurance Limited covers Assets and Earnings, while is to reduce the effect of exchange rate volatility on short-term Valiant Insurance Company Limited covers Combined Liability.
Transactional currency exposures that could significantly impact the Income Statement are hedged, typically using Statement of compliance forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies and currency options.
At the year end, forward foreign currency transactions, This review has been prepared in accordance with the designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 764m were Directors Report Business Review Requirements in section outstanding 2006 548m as detailed in note 20.
It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards We hedge the majority of our investments in our international Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review.
subsidiaries via foreign exchange transactions in matching currencies.
Our objective is to maintain a low cost of borrowing The OFRs intent is to provide information to shareholders and hedge against material movements in our Balance Sheet and should not be relied on by any other party or for any value.
During the year, currency movements decreased the other purpose.
net value of the Groups overseas assets by 77m last year Where this review contains forward-looking statements, increase of 27m.
We translate overseas profits at average these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the exchange rates which we do not currently seek to hedge.
information available to them at the time of their approval of Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising this report.
These statements should be treated with caution from default by parties to financial transactions across an due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forwardapproved list of counterparties of high credit quality.
Groups positions with these counterparties and their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
Other information Tesco Personal Finance TPF TPF lending is predominantly Additional financial and non-financial information, including to individuals through its credit card and unsecured personal press releases and year end presentations, can be accessed loan products.
TPF has also developed a significant insurance on our website, www.
com corporate and also in our business, with motor insurance a major component.
TPF risk Corporate Responsibility Review 2007. is managed by observing and adopting industry best practices and drawing upon the expertise and systems of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, including its subsidiary Direct Line.
