30 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Financial Review Cash flow 21 Operating cash flow was 166.5m compared to continuing 22 operating profit of 166.1m.
This represents a cash conversion of 100.2 per cent, a strong performance by the business.
Capital expenditure for the year was 12.6m 2006: 13.1m.
This was higher than depreciation of 10.2m 2006: 8.6m, reflecting the investment we have made, primarily in new systems, for example the New Technology Platform in OAG which will enable migration of data revenues from print to online, major website projects in our B2B business, and property investment at new office locations and sales systems within PR Newswire.
We paid dividends of 246.7m, including a special dividend of 200.3m.
We incurred restructuring and business reorganisation spend of 17.0m.
We made additional contributions to our pension scheme of 1.7m which, along with actuarial gains of 34.8m arising mainly from strong asset returns and a higher discount rate for valuing scheme liabilities, helped to turn a deficit of 3.8m on an IAS 19 accounting basis to a surplus of 36.2m.
Balance sheet Our balance sheet remains strong.
UBM had net debt Nigel Wilson at 31 December 2007 of 157.5m.
We invested 93.7m Chief Financial Officer & including estimate of potential earn outs and excluding deal Deputy Chief Executive Officer costs in 17 acquisitions and returned 276.2m of capital by repurchasing our shares and payment of a special dividend.
Our tax creditor is 227.6m and has increased from 205.7m as at 31 December 2006, representing our prudent assessment of the potential liability for prior years across different geographies, we have necessarily made judgements as to the outcome of matters not yet concluded.
This creditor has been consistently classified as short term in line with our accounting convention.
As previously disclosed UBM is in dispute with HMRC with regards to a technical matter arising in relation to the sale of our Regional Newspapers business in 1998.
The tax in dispute is estimated at 80m.
UBMs appeal was heard at the High Court on 22 February 2007.
The decision of the High Court went against UBM and UBM lodged an appeal with the Court of Appeal.
The appeal was heard on 26 February 2008 and we are awaiting the outcome.
Whilst it is likely that the matter will not be resolved until 2009 it is possible that it could be resolved during the current year.
21 Adjusted to exclude non-operating movements in working capital, such as expenditure against reorganisation and restructuring provisions.
22 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Excluding potential payments in respect of the Regional Acquisition performance Newspapers dispute discussed above, we do not expect the Cumulative 23 Invested Pre-Tax Return tax cash outflow in respect of the taxation creditor in 2008 to m % exceed 10m.
2005 104.9 11.3 We continue to hold investments in ITN and the PA Group 2006 163.0 11.3 Limited which have performed well.
24 2007 93.7 13.1 Restructuring and business reorganisation costs During the year, CMP Technology announced a restructuring to 2007 acquisitions contributed operating profit of 6.8m since align its product portfolio and organisational structure to the acquisition and achieved a return of 10.4% on a pro forma basis.
changing needs of its customers, and to better position the In 2007, we achieved underlying revenue growth of 5.0% business to take advantage of growth opportunities in events, 2006: 4.3% and we aim to accelerate that growth with further online and data.
This involved the closure and merging of some investment in 2008.
PR Newswire achieved underlying revenue print titles and a headcount reduction of over 200 people.
growth of 6.9%, CMP Asia achieved 10.7%, CMP Information The exceptional restructuring charge of 6.2m includes 3.3m achieved 9.4%, CMP Technology achieved 2.4%, Commonwealth relating to redundancy, 2.2m relating to vacant property achieved 6.7% and CMPMedica suffered a 1.7% decline.
and 0.7m to restructuring and business reorganisation costs.
Effective rate of taxation The redundancy and restructuring and business reorganisation UBMs effective rate of taxation for the year was 17.0% costs have been substantially incurred at the year end and the 2006: 18.0%.
amount relating to vacant property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease term.
Impairment Following the acquisition of the Official Airlines Guide OAG We have reviewed the carrying value of our intangible assets in December 2006, UBM announced a restructuring plan to including goodwill in light of current trading conditions and integrate OAG into the Commonwealth business and to enable expectations and consider that no provision for impairment is it to serve its global customers more effectively.
The exceptional required as at 31 December 2007. charge of 7.7m includes 6.0m relating to redundancy, 0.5m Pensions relating to vacant property and 1.2m of restructuring costs.
UBM operates a number of defined benefit and defined The redundancy and restructuring costs have been substantially contribution schemes, based primarily in the UK, but with incurred at the year end and the amount relating to vacant some based overseas.
The most recent actuarial valuations property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease term.
were undertaken at various points during 2005 and updated During the year, CMPMedica commenced a restructuring to 31 December 2007 using the projected unit method.
programme to rebalance the business to enable them to better At 31 December 2007 the aggregate surplus under IAS 19 was meet the changing customer requirements, to position them in 36.2m, an improvement of 40.0m compared to the deficit of growth markets and to improve profitability.
The exceptional 3.8m at the previous year end, reflecting asset returns and an charge of 5.7m includes 2.8m of redundancy costs, 1.2m of increase to the discount rate.
For UK schemes, the PA92 Year of vacant property costs and 1.7m of other reorganisation costs.
Birth standard tables have been used.
These tables allow for life Of the amount charged, 1.3m has been spent in 2007 and the expectancy to improve over time due to improvements in medical balance is expected to be incurred in 2008. treatments and other lifestyle factors such that younger members Profit on disposal of business who have not yet reached pensionable age are expected to live 6.0m of additional profit from discontinued operations after longer than current pension members.
For current pensioner tax has been recognised in 2007.
This represents additional members, the tables assume that they had a life expectancy at consideration receivable from GfK following the settlement of age 65 of 19.2 years for males and 22.3 years for females.
For certain outstanding items relating to the sale of NOP World in younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age, 2005, together with the release of amounts previously held the tables assume they will have a life expectancy when they for potential warranty and other claims which are now no reach age 65 of 20.6 years for males and 23.6 years for females.
23 UBM has adopted a financial target that acquisitions should achieve an 8% post-tax return.
This would equate to a pre-tax return of 10% at an assumed effective tax rate of 20%.
The return is calculated by dividing operating profit by the cost of acquisitions for the total of the three prior years.
24 Results of 2007 acquisitions have been included on a proforma basis to reflect full year impact, amounts invested include the current estimate of all future deferred consideration, but exclude deal costs.
32 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Financial Review continued The average rate of improvement underlying the standard tables UBM does not hedge the profits of its overseas operations as they is approximately an increase of 0.7 years life expectancy in every are accounting rather than cash exposures.
For US schemes, RP 2000 tables are used.
Due to the nature of UBMs business, the overseas operating The opening deficit has been restated from 6.9m as disclosed units have only limited transactional currency exposures.
Where in the 2006 financial statements to 3.8m as a result of a change these exposures exist, UBMs treasury policy requires that all its of accounting policy resulting from the adoption of IFRIC 14 operating units request currency contracts to eliminate the which has required UBM to recognise the surplus on the UNEPS, currency exposures on any individual transactions in excess of which had previously not been recognised.
50,000 for which payment is anticipated more than one month The IAS 19 interest credit was 4.5m, being the excess after entering into a firm commitment for a sale or purchase.
of expected asset growth during 2007 over the interest on Forward currency contracts must be in the same currency as the the scheme liabilities.
hedged item and it is UBMs policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged item to Funding and financial risk management maximise hedge effectiveness.
UBMs exposure to foreign currency UBMs central treasury is principally concerned with managing risk is shown by way of sensitivity to changes in exchange rates internal and external funding requirements, the monitoring of in the foreign currency risk table in note 22. working capital and the management of key financial market risks and their impact on UBMs financial assets and liabilities, profits Interest rate risk UBMs policy is to manage its cost of borrowing and cash flow.
The Head of Treasury is accountable to the Finance using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
UBM enters into Committee and the Board.
interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to generate the UBM finances its activities with a combination of funding from desired interest profile, in which UBM agrees to exchange, at capital markets, bank loans, cash and short-term deposits, as specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and variable disclosed in notes 20 and 21.
UBM mainly borrows and invests interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon centrally on behalf of its subsidiaries with the aim of maximising notional principal.
liquidity, security, flexibility and price competitiveness.
UBM has At the year end, 47% 2006: 79% of UBMs borrowings were established strong relationships with a number of banks and at fixed rates after taking account the impact of interest rate financial institutions to facilitate future funding requirements.
UBMs exposure to interest rate risk is shown by way At the end of 2006 UBM had net cash of 130.9m.
UBM paid of sensitivity to changes in interest rates in the interest rate risk 85.1m on aquisitions completed in 2007 net of cash acquired table in note 22. and earnout payments in relation to acquisitions made in prior Credit risk The risk of financial loss due to the failure of a counter years and this, together with 276.2m of capital returns made to party to honour its obligations arises principally in relation to shareholders during the year, has moved UBM to a net debt investment of surplus cash and derivative contracts it enters into.
UBM policy restricts the counterparties with whom funds can be UBM enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate invested and derivative contracts can be entered into, with the swaps, in order to manage the interest rate risk arising from UBMs objective of preserving UBMs capital.
At the end of 2007, operations and its sources of finance.
UBM also enters into a small investment of surplus funds and derivative contracts were held number of forward currency contracts to manage the currency risk with major banks of high quality credit standing with which UBM of its operations.
It is UBMs policy that no trading in derivatives has a lending relationship.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables Financial instruments give rise to foreign currency, interest rate, are limited due to UBMs customer base being large and unrelated.
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes used to Liquidity risk UBM aims to mitigate liquidity risk by borrowing and measure and manage each risk.
investing centrally on behalf of its subsidiaries with the aim of maximising security, flexibility and price competitiveness.
Foreign currency risk UBM has significant operations outside the Investment, both in organic growth and in acquisitions, is carefully UK and uses borrowings to mitigate the effect of its currency controlled with authorisation limits operating up to UBM board exposures by borrowing in the same functional currency as the level and cash payback periods applied as part of the investment foreign operation into which it invests.
At the end of 2007 UBM appraisal process.
Four year cash forecasts with analysis of varying had hedged approximately 30% of UBMs US dollar assets and scenarios are prepared by central treasury and regularly reviewed 70% of UBMs Euro assets.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 In its funding strategy, UBMs objective is to maintain a balance Through the above, UBM expects to achieve a leverage position of between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of approximately three times net debt to earnings before interest, capital markets, bank loans and overdrafts.
To facilitate access to taxation, depreciation and amortisation by the end of 2009.
At these sources of funds UBM seeks to maintain a long-term the end of 2007 the ratio was 0.9 as shown below.
Since the date investment grade credit rating with both Moodys Baa2 and of the announcement, 25m of acquisitions and 30.8m of share Standard and Poors BBB-.
buybacks have been undertaken against this policy.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is only invested in UBM monitors capital using a leverage ratio of net debt to financial instruments that are not exposed to significant risk of earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation changes in market value, and are therefore placed on interestwith a policy of keeping the ratio below three to one.
bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than 6 months 2007 2006 or in AAA rated money market funds.
m m UBM maintains a 325m multi-currency revolving credit Financial liabilities 252.5 191.1 facility from key relationship banks.
The facility allows UBM to Financial assets 95.0 322.0 draw and repay up to 325m provided all conditions precedent Net debt cash 157.5 130.9 are met.
At 31 December 2007, all conditions precedent were met and UBM had drawn 195.8m from the facility leaving Adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, 25 depreciation and amortisation 176.3 158.3 129.2m available.
Leverage Ratio 0.9 UBM has other committed bank facilities totalling 55.8m of which 53.6m was drawn at 31 December 2007.
on these facilities, including maturity profile, can be found in 25 Adjusted earning before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is adjusted operating profit as adjusted for depreciation and amortisation of website development costs.
Following the announcement in November 2007 on future In assessing the leverage ratios of net debt to adjusted earnings capital structure, UBM intends, subject to market conditions, before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, both to access further sources of finance during 2008 and 2009.
Moodys and Standard and Poors take account of a number of other factors, including future operating lease obligations and Capital management UBM maintains an investment grade credit any pension deficit.
rating and conservative capital ratios in order to support its businesses and maximise shareholder value.
Interest In November 2007, UBM announced potential changes Net interest paid was 0.6m compared to 8.3m net interest to its capital structure, subject to market conditions, in the received in the prior year as UBM moved from a net cash position period to the end of 2009.
In particular, it was announced that to a net debt position during the year as a result of acquisitions UBM would: and capital returns.
Net interest paid represents interest payments on UBMs bonds and bank loans reduced by receipts due on our continue its acquisition programme, targeting an investment cash holdings.
of 150m to 250m per year in 2008 and 2009 on acquisitions to enhance UBMs B2B and news distribution businesses while Going concern maintaining its strict acquisition criteria, including the Having reviewed UBMs liquid resources, borrowing facilities requirement to exceed an 8% post-tax return in the first full year and cash flow forecast, the directors believe that UBM has of ownership: adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
move towards an ongoing level of dividend cover of approximately two times for the period to the end of 2009, reducing cover from the current 2.47 times.
This increased dividend reflects the improved earnings visibility and predictability arising from the changed composition of UBMs businesses: return between 200m and 300m of capital to shareholders by the end of 2009 subject to trading conditions.
The level and timing of capital returns will be flexed relative to the progress of UBMs acquisition programme.
