AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Finance Directors review 4 y0 ears of making a difference AVEVA has delivered an exceptional set of financial results which reects an established market position in all of our main markets where demand remains very strong.
Summary of the Finance Directors review i Substantial increase in revenue generated across all our major regions and verticals delivered sales growth of 44% i Recurring revenues now amount to 52.7 million i Initial licence fee revenues almost doubled in the year to 34.2 million 16 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 16 07 06 2007 14:53:13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Paul Taylor FD AVEVA has delivered an exceptional set of financial results which reflects an Research and Development expense 17.6m established market position in all of our main markets where demand remains 13.9m very strong.
10.4m Revenues Substantial increase in revenue generated 6.9m across all our major regions and verticals 5.9m delivered sales growth of 44% to 94.9 million 2006 65.9 million.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Recurring revenues remained an intrinsic part of the business model and increased by 29% to 52.7 million 2006 40.9 million.
Overall this now amounts to 56% of total revenues and of sales in the industry and increased increased from 491 in March 2006 to 582 whilst slightly lower as a percentage than to 17.6 million 2006 13.9 million.
Total costs, including last year it re ects the surge of Initial related costs, amounted to 38.3 million licence fee business, particularly in Asia Operating costs increased to 43.6 million 2006 29.0 million.
Continued and historical business denominated in 2006 33.2 million an increase of investment in this area remains in line US Dollars.
Continued expansion of our global with current growth rates and ensures sales effort remained a key component AVEVA, its people and technologies Initial licence fee revenues almost to this cost and included the opening of remain world class.
doubled in the year to 34.2 million two additional sales of ces in Russia and 2006 17.6 million and much of this Mexico.
Performance based rewards were Taxation growth was generated within the Asian also a major factor in the increase in The headline tax rate is lower than the region, where local preference still costs in this area.
Operating costs for UK standard rate due to a number of drives this style of sale.
In other regions, 2006 included a charge for reduction in one-off credits, including the bene t customers long-term visibility and goodwill of 0.6 million in the year 2006 of tax losses and other unrecognised con dence has also resulted in sales and in 2007 this amounted to 1.1 million.
After adjusting for which may have previously been under IFRS prescribes that, where the tax these items the effective rate is 32%, a rental model.
charge has been reduced due to the which is higher than the UK standard utilisation of previously unrecognised rate and due to a proportion of the Revenues generated from services pre-acquisition losses, the carrying value Groups pro ts being earned in overseas continued to be driven by new product of goodwill should be reduced by a entities subject to higher rates of tax.
sales and increased this year by 8% charge to operating expenses of the to 8.0 million 2006 7.4 million.
Earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share which Gross margin, operating expenses and Adjusted pro t before tax was is before amortisation of intangibles, pro t before tax 28.1 million, an increase of 104% share-based payments and adjustment Operating margins improved materially 2006 13.8 million, which is before to goodwill was 31.71p compared with and re ect the nature of the business, amortisation of intangibles, share-based 16.15p in 2006 an increase of 96%.
where a predominant amount of cost payments and adjustment to goodwill Basic earnings per share was 26.59p of sales relates to Research and of 3.4 million 2006 2.7 million.
The Directors believe Development and delivery of new sales that adjusted earnings per share provides relates to standard product.
However, Staff costs remain our single biggest a more meaningful measurement of investment in Research and Development expenditure.
Total staff headcount has performance of the underlying business.
remains one of the highest as proportion 17 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 17 07 06 2007 14:53:13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Finance Directors review continued 40 years of continued growth Dividends believe it would be prudent to maintain a Stronger first half trading than The Board recommends a final dividend strong cash position to help support any usual and subsequenat debtor of 2.94p per ordinary share, resulting potential acquisition opportunity.
collections delivered substantial in a total dividend per share for the year of 4.18p 2006 2.46p.
The final Treasury policy cash generation in the period, dividend will be paid on 1 August 2007 The Group treasury policy aims to ensure with net cash up 76% to 41.3 to shareholders on the register at the that the capital held is not put at risk and million 2006 23.5 million.
close of business on 29 June 2007. as such the treasury functions are managed The cost of dividends paid in respect under policies and procedures approved by of the financial year was 2.0 million the Board.
These policies are designed to these exposures will be hedged.
reduce the financial risk arising from the hedges aim to minimise the adverse Groups normal trading activities, which effect of exchange rate movements, Balance sheet primarily relate to credit, interest, liquidity without eliminating all upside potential.
The success of our business over recent and currency risk.
years has helped strengthen our balance Acquisitions sheet, which in turn has helped us The Group is, and is expected to continue During the year the Company bought a continue to invest organically to acquire to be, cash positive and currently holds source code license for certain software key technologies and companies when net deposits.
The objective with these from Spescom Software Inc. for the sum the opportunities arise.
Total assets deposits is to maintain a balance between of 1.0 million $2 million.
The license have increased to 113.8 million from generating competitive rates and allowing of this software will enable AVEVA 89.7 million at 31 March 2006.
This generally means that to extend its lifecycle information other receivables for the same period no deposits are made beyond a 3 month management solutions and capitalise on were 36.5 million, compared with commitment.
However, AVEVA will secure the rapid success of its AVEVA NET portal 26.9 million at 31 March 2006 and the provision of committed funding at a and integration software, to provide reect the proportional increase in sales competitive cost to meet any needs arising complete tailored data and document year on year.
Deferred revenue increased in the long-term business plan.
The credit management solutions to its plant and to 15.4 million from 12.5 million at facilities will be secured with the Groups marine customers.
31 March 2006, a 23% increase and is principal bankers.
During the year the after adjusting for the weakness of the Group had a bank overdraft and revolving Review of principal risks Dollar against Sterling.
loan facility of 6.0 million in the UK and and uncertainties approximately 2.2 million SEK 30 million AVEVA has delivered good growth in Cash ows in Sweden, which was utilised to manage revenue, profits and cash over recent years, Stronger first half trading than usual and short-term uctuations in cash before but as with any organisation there are a subsequent debtor collections delivered remittances from the overseas entities.
number of potential risks and uncertainties substantial cash generation in the period, which could have a material impact on the with net cash up 76% to 41.3 million The revenue of the Group is Groups long-term performance.
Cash ow predominantly in foreign currency, with possible the Group seeks to mitigate these generated from operating activities approximately 35% in USD and 25% in risks through its system of internal controls before tax amounted to 26.8 million Euro.
The overseas entities incur costs but this can only provide reasonable and not compared to 13.7 million in the prior in their local functional currency, which absolute assurance against material losses.
year, demonstrating continued strong acts as a partial net hedge.
The Group The principal risks and uncertainties faced cash conversion.
has a net funding requirement in GBP, by the Group are as follows : due to the majority of Research and As our market expands our customers Development costs being incurred in Protection of the Groups intellectual demands for more complex and integrated the UK.
Where applicable, revenue and property rights solutions grow.
Our ability to sustain a expense payments will be netted against The Companys success has been built upon market leading position will be driven by each other, constituting a natural hedge.
the knowledge developed in its intellectual continued organic investment, but there Any payments which cannot be set off property rights and protection of this are also opportunities to make value against each other will result in a net remains critical.
The Company uses third enhancing acquisitions.
As such we currency exposure and where possible party technology to encrypt, protect and 18 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 18 07 06 2007 14:53:13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report restrict access to its products.
Access Employees AVEVAs success has been limitations and rights are also dened AVEVAs success has been built on the quality built on the quality and reputation within the terms of the contract and the and reputation of its products and services, of its people, products and Group seeks to ensure that its intellectual which rely almost entirely on the quality of property rights are appropriately protected the people delivering these.
Maintaining and by law wherever possible.
and growing this pool of highly skilled and growing highly skilled motivated individuals across all disciplines and motivated individuals Dependency on key markets and geographies remains key to our ongoing AVEVA generates a substantial amount success.
The Group endeavours to ensure across all disciplines and of its income from customers whose main that employees are motivated by their work geographies remains key business is derived from capital projects and there are regular appraisals, with staff to our ongoing success.
driven by growth in the oil and gas, power encouraged to develop their skills.
Whilst the global complexity of these projects affords some Identication and successful integration International operations protection against short-term issues, of acquisitions The Group operates internationally and future success is dependent on growth The Group expects to continue to review is required to comply with local laws and within these markets.
acquisition targets as part of its strategy.
regulations and tax legislation of overseas Market conditions may lead to increased countries.
significant changes in these laws Timing of contract signing competition for targets, resulting in higher and regulations or failure to comply with As with most software companies, timings acquisition prices or fewer prospects them could lead to additional liabilities and of contractual signing and delivery is key to which will deliver lower value.
The Group endeavours to comply recognising revenue.
With the majority of integration of acquisitions also involves a with local laws and regulations by employing costs being people, sales at the end of the number of unique risks, including diversion qualied personnel and through the use of year tend to generate very high margin of managements attention, failure to retain local professional advisers.
Timing of closure of these can key personnel of the acquired business, materially affect revenues and profits, failure to realise the benets anticipated whilst the increasing recurring nature of to result from the acquisition, system our business mitigates this to some extent.
integration and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities.
Paul Taylor Foreign exchange risk Finance Director Exposure to foreign currency gains and Research and Development losses can be material to the Group, with The Group makes substantial investments approximately 75% of the Groups revenues in Research and Development in enhancing denominated in a foreign currency, of existing products and introducing new which our 2 largest are US Dollars 35% products.
If new products or enhancements and Euro 25%.
The Group enters into are introduced which do not meet customer forward foreign currency contracts to requirements or competitors introduce manage the currency risk where material.
a rival product which better meets the The overseas subsidiaries trade in their own requirements of the market then this currencies and that also acts as a natural may have a material impact on revenues hedge against currency movements.
Group is also exposed to foreign currency translation risk on the translation of its net investment overseas into Sterling.
This is managed to some extent by the overseas entities incurring costs denominated in their local currency.
