Operating and Financial Review To the shareholders of William Hill PLC to reflect events or circumstances after www.
com and the date of this announcement.
com, an The statutory requirement to prepare an online casino Operating and Financial Review OFR has This OFR has been prepared for the Group www.
com, online been removed by the Government.
as a whole and therefore gives greater poker site However, it is included in this Annual emphasis to those matters, which are www.
com, online Report as the Board considers it contains significant to the Group taken as a whole.
com important information, which may assist and online skills games shareholders to assess the Companys www.
The strategy and the potential for that Group accepted its first bet via the strategy to succeed.
The OFR discusses the following areas: internet in 1998 and the casino was launched in conjunction with The Directors are however required to Operations Page 4 Cryptologic Inc at the end of 1999. provide a Business Review, the contents Long term strategy Page 5 of which are set out in the Companies The offering was enhanced by the Review of 2007 performance Page 6 introduction of arcade games in 2002 Act.
For convenience the Business Review and the launch of a dedicated poker on page 14 does not repeat information Key performance indicators Page 9 site in January 2003.
Also in 2003, already provided within the OFR and Future outlook Page 10 appropriate cross references to Boss Media AB was introduced as a second supplier of casino software, a information in this document are Risks and uncertainties Page 10 Euro denominated casino was provided.
As such, some of the Resources and relationships Page 10 launched and an integrated information within the OFR is required Financial review Page 11 and some is being provided on a sportsbook and casino account was offered to customers.
in the interactive offering through Operations The OFR includes statements that are, or improvements in functionality and may be deemed to be, forward-looking Description of business product development continue to be statements.
By their nature, forwardmade and in 2007 included the William Hill is a leading provider of fixed looking statements involve risk and introduction of skill and bingo odds bookmaking services, offering odds uncertainty because they relate to future games: and taking bets on a wide range of events and circumstances.
A number of sporting and other events, as well as Telephone betting, in which the factors could cause actual results and offering gaming machines in its LBOs and directors believe that William Hill is a developments to differ materially from a comprehensive suite of gaming market leader in terms of customer those expressed or implied by the products online.
The Group also operates numbers, has the capacity to forward-looking statements.
As such, two greyhound stadia situated in the operate approximately 637 information in this OFR cannot be relied north east of England.
telephone bet capture positions at upon as a guide to future performance.
call centres in Leeds and Sheffield: Forward-looking statements may and The Group delivers its betting and gaming International businesses, which often do differ materially from actual products to customers through four comprise joint ventures established results.
Any forward-looking statements in principal channels: this OFR reflect the Companys view with in Spain and Italy to exploit retail and Retail comprising a network of nearly respect to future events as at the date of interactive gambling opportunities 2,300 outlets throughout the UK and in those territories.
this document and are subject to risks Ireland making William Hill one of relating to future events and other risks, Operating and regulatory environment the two largest operators of LBOs in uncertainties and assumptions relating to Historically, the Groups business has the UK.
The directors believe that the William Hills operations, results of proven to be less exposed to the scale of the network gives William operations, strategy and liquidity.
Save as economic cycle than many other Hill a significant competitive required by law or by the Listing Rules of consumer facing industries.
Since the last advantage in terms of brand the Financial Services Authority, the economic downturn, however, the recognition and allows central costs Company undertakes no obligation business has significantly increased its to be spread across a large estate: publicly to release the results of any income generated from gaming machines Interactive betting including an revisions to any forward-looking in LBOs and online betting and gaming.
It online sportsbook statements in this OFR that may occur is difficult to predict with any certainty www.
com, arcade games due to any change in its expectations or 4 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 how these income streams will react for the provision of live coverage of all Long term strategy under conditions of economic pressure.
horse races taking place at those horseThe Group continues to pursue a strategy race courses for which Turf TV has aimed at delivering sustainable earnings The business is defined and constrained exclusive rights.
These issues are discussed growth and value for shareholders.
Recent legislation affecting further in the Review of 2007 the UK operations comprises the key elements of the strategy are to: performance under the heading Cost of Gambling Act 2005, which was fully content.
Continue to enhance traditional implemented from 1st of September 2007 earnings and maximise organic and sets up a new regulatory regime for Competition growth opportunities: the industry enforced by a new Gambling The Group faces competition primarily Profitably exploit new platforms: Commission.
The Groups businesses are from other bookmakers, online betting properly licensed in the UK to accept Capitalise on opportunities from exchanges, other interactive operators sports and other bets and in Malta, regulatory, fiscal and technological and, to some extent, the National Lottery.
Gibraltar and Netherland Antilles to change in the UK and overseas: and The directors do not believe that the operate gaming products including Group currently faces significant Selectively pursue value-enhancing casino, poker and bingo sites.
Our competition from other land-based acquisitions.
operations in Spain and Italy are or are in participants in the gaming industry, The Board monitors performance against the process of being appropriately namely casinos and bingo halls.
However, the strategy by: licensed under the regulatory regimes competition in the online space has and is Establishing an annual plan established in those jurisdictions.
expected to continue to intensify as new incorporating strategic objectives operators enter the market and existing The regulation of online gambling around and monitoring results against that operators improve and expand their the world is constantly changing with plan: product offerings.
new rules and regulations being Monitoring performance against key considered and introduced in a number of The competitive landscape remains competitors: territories where we have customers.
In subject to change depending on Evaluating new business this environment our approach is that regulatory and technological development opportunities against each customer must take responsibility for developments.
stringent financial criteria and complying with local laws in respect of The Groups principal competitors in the alternative uses of capital: betting and gaming in the jurisdiction in UK retail market are Ladbrokes and Coral, which he or she is based.
However, where Playing an active role in regulatory with William Hill and Ladbrokes having considered necessary, the directors obtain and fiscal matters which could the largest LBO estates.
independent legal advice concerning the influence the business: and state of betting and gaming laws in Ladbrokes, Coral and the Tote are the Identifying and implementing particular jurisdictions.
Groups chief competitors in the UK technological change which is telephone betting market.
In addition, a expected to benefit the business.
The Group closely monitors the number of international telephone development of tax policy in relation to operators compete with the Group from betting and gaming in all the jurisdictions outside the UK.
It seeks to lobby the respective governments to ensure a fair The Group faces competition in its and equitable approach to the taxation of interactive operations from a large different forms of gambling and various number of UK owned operators including platforms, and to minimise the likelihood Ladbrokes, Coral and various betting that the tax regimes might be changed to exchanges, as well as operators based the detriment of the Group.
overseas that have entered, and continue to enter, the interactive market.
Relatively The Group, in conjunction with other few of these overseas competitors have a bookmakers, continues to make a number recognisable or long-established brand of statutory, voluntary and commercial name in the UK.
The Group competes payments to various sporting bodies.
In overseas with online and off-line addition, the Group makes commercial competitors that may have more brand payments through Bookmakers Afternoon recognition than William Hill in certain Greyhound Services Limited BAGS for markets.
the right to screen pictures in LBOs from various horse and greyhound racetracks and from 12th of January 2008 to Turf TV 5 The average number of machines in the Review of 2007 performance estate increased to 8,382 2006: 8,218 in Group summary the period.
The average net contribution A summary of the key financial results is set out in the table below: per machine per week was 466 2006: 433.
This is a strong performance from Key financials Gross win Operating profit machines, which has absorbed the before exceptional items additional cost from the imposition of m 2007 2006 2007 2006 AMLD in August 2006, that has adversely affected average weekly profitability of Retail 802.6 736.0 229.8 225.9 each terminal by 38.
The improvement Interactive 119.8 130.5 50.9 61.5 was achieved despite the advent of the smoking ban from 1 July and was driven Telephone 53.0 57.5 16.1 16.7 by staff training, content improvements, tight management of machine downtime Other 8.3 7.3 1.1 0.6 and the extended opening hours allowed International joint ventures 2.6 from 1 September.
In January 2008, we renegotiated our machines supply Associate SIS 3.3 3.6 contracts on improved terms with our existing supplier Inspired Gaming and Central overheads 11.9 14.9 also introduced a new supplier to the 983.7 931.3 286.7 292.2 estate, Global Draw.
We expect that these flexible supply arrangements will drive The Retail channel, which constitutes 82% Retail channel product innovation and service of the Groups gross win, continued to performance, which should enable us to The Retail channels gross win grew by 9% perform strongly driven by encouraging deliver continued growth in our machines to 802.6m 7% excluding the effects of gross win growth and good cost control.
the 53rd week and pre-exceptional profit This was achieved notwithstanding the increased by 2% to 229.8m.
This Costs in the channel were up 11%, driven full year effects of the imposition of AMLD performance was achieved by the extended betting shop opening and the absence of a major football notwithstanding the adverse full year hours, the effects of the 53rd week, tournament.
We estimate that these items impact in 2007 from the imposition of increases in the average number of LBOs in total had an impact on the Group of AMLD in August 2006, as well as the 2006 mainly affecting staff and property costs approximately 16m in comparison with comparatives including incremental gross and development activity within the win associated with the football World 2006, although the effects of this were existing estate mainly affecting property Cup.
partly offset by 2007 being a 53-week and depreciation costs.
Interactive has had a difficult Gross win from over the counter OTC We completed 282 development and LBO period, impacted by technology issues increased by 3%, while machines gross refurbishment projects in 2007 including and a very competitive market, while win was up 15% both excluding the 53rd 39 new licences, 65 extensions and resites Telephone produced a stable result, week.
Growth was facilitated by a larger and 178 LBO refurbishments.
Overall, we despite lower high-staking customer estate reflecting estate development and spent 46.8m on estate development in volumes year-on-year.
In addition, 2007 bolt-on acquisitions and the extended 2007. has seen the start of our long-term opening hours allowed from 1 September 2007 has also seen the acquisition and investments in the Italian and Spanish by the Gambling Commission.
We believe speedy integration of two small chains of markets via our international joint that further benefits from extended hours LBOs, TH Jennings Harlow Pools Limited ventures with Codere.
will come through in the future as punters comprising 22 LBOs acquired for total become more familiar with the new Profit before finance charges and consideration of 21.5m and Eclipse trading hours available.
exceptional items was 5.5m lower than Bookmakers Limited comprising 7 LBOs last year but earnings per share excluding The impact of sporting results on OTC acquired for a total consideration of exceptional items increased by 4%, gross win year-on-year was broadly 3.2m.
Both chains have traded neutral as the effects of favourable benefiting from one-off tax movements.
satisfactorily since their respective football results in the earlier part of the The Board is recommending a final acquisitions.
year were largely offset by disappointing dividend of 15.5 pence per share, an At 1 January 2008, we had 2,234 LBOs in results in September and October.
increase of 7% on last year consistent with the United Kingdom, 9 in the Channel Horseracing gross win was impacted by the Groups policy of returning surplus Islands, 2 in the Isle of Man and 49 in the the poor summer weather and a capital via dividends and share buyback.
Republic of Ireland: a total of 2,294. consequent high level of fixture cancellations 88 in 2007 compared to 46 in 2006.
6 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Interactive channel relative underperformance of the This result was achieved notwithstanding Interactive sportsbook.
Management the World Cup benefiting the comparative Interactive had a disappointing year with changes have been made within the figures and lower high-staking customer gross win falling by 10.7m to 119.8m Interactive management team and there activity in the period.
While the Telephone and operating profit falling by 10.6m to has been an increased investment in the channel is our most mature, we believe 50.9m.
content on the site including the live that it should continue to deliver stable The Interactive sportsbook site has streaming of events such as horse racing earnings whilst providing a valuable continued to be impacted by the relative and the Australian Tennis Open with the facility to customers who are attracted by inflexibility of our current technology aim of driving increased traffic to the site.
good quality service and a quick and configuration.
This inflexibility is most In addition, we have improved our current convenient way to get their bets notable in respect of in-running betting offer to clients through expanded processed.
where the limitations of our technology payment methods, market leading pricing We ended the year with 146,000 active prevented us from matching the on selected football bets, easier telephone customers 26 December 2006: increasing number of in-running betting navigation of the website and improved 160,000.
The 2006 number of accounts opportunities available from our internet search engine optimisation was boosted by recruitment activity competitors.
The Group had been capabilities.
associated with the World Cup.
addressing this technology deficiency Gaming revenues largely stabilised in through its replacement NextGen Costs incurred by the channel were 2007 following the loss of poker business technology programme.
In November reduced by 12% principally due to lower in the second half of 2006 that resulted 2007, following the notification of a delay marketing spend in respect of the World from changes in US legislation.
Arcade in the implementation of the NextGen Cup and rationalisation of staff costs.
games performed strongly driven by new programme, the Board instigated a review International activities games and products.
We launched 9 new of the project by external consultants.
The 2007 has seen further progress in arcade games during the period that review concluded that, while the NextGen developing our operations in Spain and expanded our offering to 26 games.
We programme would deliver the expected Italy in conjunction with our joint venture also introduced internet based bingo and benefits in due course, the partner, Codere.
skill games in the period and bingo, in implementation would require greater particular, has been very successful and investment and take longer than In Spain, the joint venture has launched has exceeded initial expectations.
The review also its Spanish brand Victoria Apuestas and revenues are lower than last year in part identified that proven technology was has developed the infrastructure needed reflecting a cannibalisation of casino available that could be implemented to manage and control the joint venture revenue by arcade games and also a more rapidly and at a lower comparative operations.
We are expecting to be lower average yield per player.
The Board concluded that this was awarded an operational licence for the a difficult first 6 months of the year but the preferred option and decided to Madrid region imminently.
We aim to the introduction of a closed loop which terminate the NextGen programme.
This secure up to 34 owned outlets in this means that poker winnings should be decision resulted in an exceptional nonregion by the end of the year together recycled amongst our clients within the cash impairment charge in relation to the with a similar number of third party Cryptologic poker room and lower limit NextGen technology programme of outlets subject to obtaining local licensing tables has seen a stabilisation of revenue 20.9m in the 2007 results with further and planning permissions.
We have also in what has traditionally been the slower related restructuring charges of successfully secured one of the three second half of the year.
approximately 4m expected to be licences available in the Basque region of incurred in 2008.
Spain, which entitles us to open betting Total active accounts increased to 432,000 outlets in that region.
We hope to have 8 as at 1 January 2008 26 December 2006: In January 2008, we agreed heads of betting shops and 55 other betting 405,000. terms to purchase the ORBIS technology outlets operational by the end of the year.
ORBIS is the industry-leading Costs in the channel increased 6%, largely Some of the unsuccessful bidders have platform and once implemented, will due to higher depreciation associated challenged this award.
The Basque allow us to compete on a level playing with increased investment in systems government has indicated that it will field with our competitors, especially in partly offset by the effects of lower respond to this appeal by the end of the number and variety of marketing costs, following the football February 2008.
We remain confident that in-running markets we can offer.
We aim World Cup investment in the previous our licence will be confirmed.
to implement ORBIS by the end of year.
November 2008 and will invest in In December 2006, as part of a process of Telephone channel programme management skills to ensure deregulating betting within Italy, William Telephone gross win fell by 4.5m to that we meet this implementation target.
Hill and Codere were jointly awarded 20 53.0m and operating profit decreased by concessions to operate horseracingThe Board took a number of other 0.6m to 16.1m.
betting shops, 7 concessions to operate initiatives in the period to address the 7 sports betting shops and 28 concessions incurred in the period in preparation for against Turf TV and various others over relating to sports betting points.
Progress the introduction of the new Gambling allegations of breaches in competition has been made in 2007 in identifying and Commission regime of which 1.2m was law.
acquiring locations to exploit these non-recurring.
On 20 February 2008, the Government concessions and under the terms of the announced its intention that the 47th Levy Looking forward, we will continue to concessions they have to be ready to scheme be settled on terms similar to focus on cost discipline and remain commence trading by September 2008 those included in the 46th Levy scheme.
confident that cost increases will remain and the majority are expected to be We were disappointed with this outcome in the 4-6% historical cost range excluding operational before then.
We are also but welcomed the comments in the the incremental effects of evening investigating potential shop acquisition accompanying statement that the opening and Turf TV.
opportunities in Italy to expand our Government accepted an argument could footprint.
Remote licences relating to Regulatory development be put forward that bookmakers horseracing and sports betting were also The Gambling Act 2005 came into force subscriptions to the new Turf TV service applied for and granted and the internet on 1 September 2007 with the Gambling constitute a commercially-based flow of sites have recently commenced trading in Commission taking on its role of money to horseracing.
We share the February of this year.
implementing and policing the detailed Governments desire to move away from a The Board notes that both Spain and Italy regulations, licence conditions, and statutory levy and we look forward to are new markets for William Hill and guidance that will govern gambling in engaging with the Government and the expect that it will take a period of time to Great Britain.
We welcome the horseracing industry in the near future on develop these opportunities.
establishment of the Gambling developing a commercial arrangement for Commission and support its objective to the support of horseracing going forward.
Operating expenses regulate gambling in the public interest Taxation Full-year expenses before exceptional by keeping crime out of gambling, by The main taxation change in the period items net of operating income for the ensuring that gambling is conducted fairly was the reduction from 30% to 28% in the Group were 480.2m, an increase of 8%.
and openly, and by protecting children headline rate of corporation tax, which Excluding the effects of the 53rd week and vulnerable people from being becomes effective from 1 April 2008.
As and the extended opening hours from 1st harmed or exploited by gambling.
the Group has significant non-cash September, costs are estimated to have We have engaged with the Commission, deferred tax liabilities associated with its risen by 4%.
working with it to try and establish acquired betting licences, the rate change Staff costs which represented roughly workable regulations in time for the 1st has led to a one-off reduction in the tax half of our total costs increased by 7% September deadline.
We look forward to charge of 11.3m, resulting from the over the comparable period, mainly maintaining a positive dialogue with the restatement of these liabilities based on reflecting the 53rd week, extended Commission in years to come.
We have the reduced corporation tax rate.
opening hours from September, a 3% also undertaken a significant training Consequently, the Groups effective rate of increase in the average number of LBOs programme during the year to inform all tax before exceptional items and trading in the period and an inflationour staff of the requirements of the Act associate income was 25.3%, as based pay award to staff of 3%.
Property and their responsibilities under the new compared to 29.6% in 2006 and the UK costs, which represented 17% of our total regime.
costs, were up 15% over the comparable period reflecting higher energy costs and Cost of content Cashflow and net indebtedness increases in rent and rates, in part driven On 11 January 2008, we entered into a The Group generated net cash inflow by an increase in average LBO size and five year contract with Amalgamated from operating activities before financing also a greater number of LBOs.
Racing Limited, trading as Turf TV, for the and tax of 310.7m, 3.2m lower than the provision of live coverage of all horse Depreciation costs increased 20% due to comparable period.
The Group paid races taking place at those horse-race increased investment in the LBO estate 77.7m in net debt service costs five courses for which Turf TV has exclusive and IT systems, including gaming separate interest payments were made rights.
By agreeing this contract the Group products.
The cost of providing pictures due to the 53-week period, paid 71.8m has ensured that it is able to provide and data to our LBOs was up 9% over the in corporation tax, invested 97.3m in pictures of UK racing to our customers in comparable period due to the increased capital expenditure and acquisitions, paid the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man, size of the estate and the costs of extra 78.5m in dividends and spent 43.5m Channel Islands and the Republic of content to support the extended opening net of SAYE option receipts purchasing Ireland from that date and has obtained hours.
Advertising and marketing costs its own shares.
certainty on the cost of that service for were down 9% over the comparable Net indebtedness increased to 1,083.9m the next five years.
The Group, together period mainly due to the absence of the at 1 January 2008 26 December 2006 with the Bookmakers Afternoon World Cup marketing campaign, which 1,043.4m as a result of the above.
Greyhound Services and other was included in the 2006 comparative bookmakers, is currently party to litigation figures.
Approximately 3.0m was 8 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Return on incremental capital Key performance indicators invested for example, in relation to A comparison of KPIs in the 2007 and 2006 financial years is shown below: investment in the Retail estate, the 1 Group seeks returns on capital Group KPIs 2007 2006 invested of 20% on new licences, actual actual 15% on resites and extensions and 2 Growth in gross win 6% 6% 10% on refurbishments.
2 Growth in gross profit 4% 6% To assess the capital structure, the Board 2 focuses on the ratio of net debt to Growth in operating expenses 8% 6% earnings before interest, taxation, Net interest expense 63.3m 56.8m depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, which is managed to ensure an efficient Interest cover EBIT before exceptionals net finance costs 4.5 5.1 balance sheet and is a key driver of overall Effective tax rate excluding exceptional items distribution policy.
and associate income 25.2% 29.6% In addition to these financial indicators a 3 Gross win percentage by channel number of non-financial indicators are also used including numbers of betting OTC 17% 16% slips processed and the number of active Interactive sportsbook 6% 7% customers in the remote channels.
The Board also monitors a number of KPIs to Telephone 10% 9% ensure that the Group is meeting its Operating margin by channel corporate and social responsibilities.
This is further discussed in the Corporate Retail 29% 31% Responsibility Report.
Interactive 42% 47% Targets for certain KPIs are set on an Telephone 30% 29% annual basis as part of the Groups operational objectives for the coming year Average profit per LBO 101,000 103,000 having regard to historic levels, expected Average net contribution per machine 466 433 new developments and the Groups strategy.
Average profit per active Interactive customer 118 152 In 2007, adjusted EPS before exceptional Average profit per active Telephone customer 110 104 items increased 4% to 47.4 pence.
Growth 4 Net debt EBITDA 3.4 3.3 in gross win was just below internal targets, reflecting Interactives 1 2007 is a 53-week period.
disappointing results, while gross profit 2 Excludes Stanley Retail.
growth was also just below our internal 3 Gross win percentage by product is monitored internally but not publicly disclosed.
Both gross win and gross profit 4 Net debt is before offset of finance fees, excludes client cash and includes third party bank guarantees.
exceeded the levels achieved in the The Board sees earnings per share growth The Board also utilises a range of comparative period due to factors as the key indicator of the Groups success measures designed to determine explained in the Review of 2007 in delivering on its objectives of performance at a channel and product performance.
Growth in operating level, the more important of which are: sustainable earnings growth and expenses was managed within our enhancing shareholder value.
The key Gross win percentage by channel: expectations.
performance indicators KPIs used by the Operating margin by channel and by Board in monitoring earnings per share product: Operating margins were at acceptable growth are as follows: Average profit per LBO: levels for the Retail and Telephone Gross win represents total customer businesses but fell below expectations for Average profit per active stakes less customer winnings : the Interactive business.
Telephone Interactive customer where profit is pre-exceptional Gross profit represents gross win With regard to financial structure the operating profit as shown in note 2 less cost of sales : Board believes that a target net debt to of the Group financial statements Operating expenses: EBITDA ratio of circa 3.5 times represents and an active customer is defined as an efficient balance sheet structure for the Interest charges and cover: and one who has placed a bet with their Group with any excess capital, not Effective tax rate.
own money in the last 12 months: required for investment in the business, and 9 being returned to shareholders through a Make significant progress on key The risk that key technology or combination of dividends and share buytechnology programmes.
information systems could fail: backs.
For the year as a whole, we remain The impact of weather or other confident of further growth in the Retail factors on the sporting programme: Future outlook business.
The Group remains focused on The loss of key personnel: cost and believes that like for like cost The Group continues to invest in The risk of a prolonged economic growth can continue to be contained developing each of its businesses to recession or other geo-political within the historical range of 4-6%.
underpin its future growth prospects.
events that may result in a reduction However, the business will need to absorb It plans to continue to invest circa 38m of betting activity: incremental costs associated with the new per annum in the Retail estate.
The Group Turf TV contract and the full year impact of The risk that intermediaries such as has also earmarked 28m for investment extended winter opening hours.
banks refuse to accept credit and in 2008 in new and improved technology debit card transactions connected The performance of the interactive platforms and core bookmaking systems with gambling: and sportsbook is expected to continue to be that will initially have the most impact on impacted until the new ORBIS platform is The risk resulting from any inability the underperforming Interactive channel fully up and running towards the end of of the Group to refinance and service and will ultimately benefit Telephone and the year.
The Group also plans to The development of our International The Board routinely monitors all the invest circa 30m to pursue opportunities business continues.
Until these businesses above risks and appropriate actions are in Spain and Italy in the short term but reach scale we would anticipate absorbing taken to mitigate the risks or their this amount could be exceeded some operating losses, which in 2008 are potential adverse consequences.
The dependant on the speed and nature of expected to be approximately 8 million.
Review of 2007 performance further deregulation and the opportunities that expands on certain issues that fall into the become available in those markets and Overall, the Board remains confident about above description of risk factors.
the longer-term prospects for the business the extent to which trading exceeds or both in the UK and internationally.
Resources and relationships All investment and acquisition proposals Risk and uncertainties The Group seeks to exploit a number of are evaluated against strict criteria that The directors are seeking to build an assets and resources that are not focus on return on capital and payback increasingly profitable business by necessarily reflected in its financial period.
exploiting its resources and relationships statements including: 2007 has seen differing approaches taken and, at the same time, carefully managing A market leading position in all major by countries within Europe with some the risks to the operation.
Such risks betting channels in the UK with an increased protectionist activity, in include: established international presence: particular in Germany and Turkey, and The potential impact of legislative A long-established and widely some local liberalisation in Italy and Spain.
changes and the activities of The Group works with its industry bodies recognised brand, with a strong regulators in the UK and overseas on to press for compliance by EU member reputation for quality: the Groups scope and conduct of states with EU treaty obligations and to An extensive and high quality estate operations and ability to accept push for a fair and proportionate of betting shops which benefit from gambling transactions: regulatory regime when local laws are significant sustained investment and The potential impact of changes to being reviewed.
The EU Commission has ongoing refurbishment and the UK and overseas fiscal been active in asking various countries to improvements: environments: explain how their gambling laws comply An effective risk management system with EU law.
The ability of the Group to manage and significant bookmaking its bookmaking risk: In the coming year we expect to: experience: The relationship with key suppliers, A focus on sustainable and profitable Maximise revenues in each channel most notably the horse and growth and tight management of through specific initiatives: greyhound industries and other costs: Maintain cost and capital discipline providers of content and pictures: Strong cash flow generation: to ensure efficient use of resources: The amounts required to be paid by A track record of innovation and Continue our investment in levies and fees to certain sporting profitably exploiting regulatory, fiscal operations in Italy and Spain: bodies under various arrangements: and technological change: and Continue to invest in the LBO estate The potential threat represented by A strong management team and through our ongoing development competitors based in the UK and workforce of over 13,000 trained programme: and overseas: employees.
10 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The directors believe that such resources dividend of 15.5 pence per share 2006: these facilities are currently sufficient to help to secure the Groups position at the 14.5 pence per share on 5 June 2008 to meet the projected working capital and forefront of the betting and gaming shareholders on the register on 2 May investment needs of the Group.
industry and ensure it is well placed to 2008.
The 7% increase in the proposed The Company has hedged its exposure to compete and develop its business in the final dividend is in line with the Groups interest rates on its forecast floating rate future.
policy of returning surplus capital via debt by entering into a series of interest dividends and share buybacks.
The Our customers and employees are key to rate swaps and collars.
As at 1 January proposed level of total dividend our success and our Corporate 2008, approximately 40% of its forecast corresponds to a dividend cover ratio of Responsibility CR Report on pages 31 exposure is fixed via interest rate swaps 1.9 times 26 December 2006 to 36 provides further information on our reducing to 10% by the end of 2012.
The Company normally aims to policies and practices in these areas, as further 40% is subject to interest rate pay interim and final dividends that well as details of other key CR issues for collar arrangements as at 1 January 2008, represent approximately one third and the Group.
also reducing to 10% by the end of 2012. two thirds, respectively, of total dividends.
The Group also has a number of key The remaining exposure is at floating The Company obtained a renewed suppliers who provide products and rates.
The Board will continue to review authority from shareholders at the Annual services to the Group.
periodically the borrowing and hedging General Meeting held in May 2007 to arrangements to ensure that they remain In Retail, the most significant relationships buyback up to 10% of the issued share appropriate to the needs of the Group are with Leisure Link and Global Draw capital.
In 2007, the Company bought who both supply gaming machines to our and take account of changes in market back 2% of its opening share capital, all of conditions and business plans.
LBOs in Great Britain, and Alphameric, which was cancelled.
The aggregate cost who supply and maintain the Groups In September 2005, the Board announced after expenses and stamp duty of the EPOS systems.
SIS, in which the Group has it intended to maintain an efficient and acquired 2% of issued share capital was a shareholding, and Turf TV are the main flexible capital structure and would 46.0m.
providers of pictures and data into our achieve these objectives by targeting a From June 2002, the date of its initial LBOs.
The Group also has arrangements ratio of net debt to earnings before public offering to the end of 2007, the with the various horse and greyhound exceptional items, interest, tax, tracks via BAGS and Turf TV for the right Company has bought back a total of 19% depreciation and amortisation EBITDA of of its original issued share capital to screen pictures.
approximately 3.5 times to be achieved inclusive of shares bought back into Our two online casino providers over the medium term.
By the end of treasury returning 448.6m to Cryptologic Inc and Boss Media AB are December 2007, the Group net debt to shareholders and paid dividends totalling important suppliers to the Interactive EBITDA ratio was 3.4 times.
Our bankers are important As we are now close to our target proposed dividend of 15.5 pence per providers of funding and interest rate risk leverage and as we have current share to be paid in June 2008. management products as well as investment opportunities both providing daily banking facilities through Approximately 2% of the issued share internationally and in respect of our distribution channels.
capital at the end of 2007 is held as investment in IT systems to support our treasury shares to meet future awards William Hill operates in a regulated Interactive channel, we currently estimate under the Groups various incentive and environment where the potential risks that the pace of our rolling share buyback share remuneration schemes.
identified previously include adverse programme in 2008 is likely to slow.
We changes to the regulatory and tax Financial structure and liquidity remain committed to returning surplus regimes.
The Group both on its own and capital to shareholders and our buyback Following the acquisition of Stanley Retail via trade associations maintains an programme will be kept under regular in June 2005, the Board considered the ongoing dialogue with the DCMS and HM review.
optimal capital structure and financing Treasury as well as with the Gambling arrangements for William Hill as a public Reconciliation of gross win to revenue Commission.
Accordingly, the Group secured Due to the requirements of accounting The Government and the Commission new facilities of 1.2bn with a consortium standards, the Group discloses a different have identified responsible gambling as a of banks.
600m of the new facilities has top line measure of activity revenue in its key area of focus and we have a regular been structured as a five-year revolving accounts from gross win.
The difference dialogue with DCMS, the Commission, credit facility and 600m as a five-year between the two measures is the VAT GamCare, the Responsibility in Gambling term loan.
These facilities are repayable in payable on machine income and the Trust and trade associations in this area.
In June 2006, the Group following is a reconciliation for the periods arranged a further new five-year bank We also, via relevant trade associations, presented between gross win and facility of 250m.
This facility is repayable have arrangements for alerting sports revenue as disclosed in the attached in July 2011.
The directors believe that regulatory bodies to unusual betting financial statements: patterns.
53 weeks 52 weeks The Group is a major contributor to the to 1 Jan to 26 Dec horse and greyhound racing industries via 2008 2006 the statutory levy and voluntary levy m m respectively.
Gross win 983.7 931.3 Financial review VAT on machine income 43.3 37.1 Returns to shareholders The Company is proposing to pay a final Revenue 940.4 894.2 11
