Directors Report Business Review Finance Directors Report Stephen East The results for the year are produced under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and to aid understanding we show in the tables on page 15 the reconciliation of profit under IFRS to the Adjusted Profit numbers used by management and most of the analyst community.
Earnings per Share and Dividend Basic earnings per share was 0.9 pence per share compared to 0.7 pence per share in the previous year.
Adjusted basic earnings per share which removes the effect of fixed rental uplifts, amortisation of certain intangible assets and exceptional items was 1.2 pence per share compared with 2.8 pence per share last year.
A maintained final dividend of 1.34 pence per share has been recommended by the Board.
This will be paid, subject to shareholder consent, on 21 June 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 April 2007.
This proposed dividend together with the interim dividend of 0.43 pence per share paid on 12 December 2006 brings the total dividend for the year to 1.77 pence per share, compared to a total of 1.75 pence per share in the prior year.
The results reflect a highly challenging retail environment, a year of investment in our multichannel capability and store estate and a year of change for our Entertainment Wholesale business.
This has resulted in a number of one-off costs which though are more than offset by one-off and ongoing accounting benefits as well as enduring changes to the business.
The results reflect a highly challenging retail environment, Profit from Continuing Operations Adjusted Retail profit of 17.1 million in the prior year became a year of investment in our a loss of 12.9 million this year, reflecting the challenging retail multichannel capability and environment and a period of investment in the Retail business including clearance activities, growth of its multichannel capability store estate and a year of and store refurbishments, all of which had a cost in the year but change for our Entertainment help better position the business for the future.
of these and other initiatives are included in the Chief Executives Report on pages 8 to 13.
Adjusted profits from Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing amounted to 53.1 million compared to 56.4 million in the previous year.
This reflects stable profitability from 2entertain, our joint venture with BBC Worldwide and a similar level to the prior year of releases of historic accruals no longer required.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Finance Director 14 Directors Report Business Review Finance Directors Report The adjusted profits of Entertainment UK together with THE and Reconciliation of Adjusted Profit Bertram from their respective dates of acquisition, after a 2.4 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 3 February 2007 28 January 2006 million provision in relation to Music Zone, a THE customer which m m went into administration in January 2007, were down 2.7 million Profit before tax on the previous year.
This reflects a very active year in which the and exceptional items 7.3 43.7 impact of improved trading terms granted to retain the Tesco business until April 2007 were largely offset by growth and Add back: efficiency improvements.
Further details of the developments amortisation of in the business are included in the Chief Executives Report.
certain intangible assets 3.9 3.0 fixed rental uplifts 10.6 11.0 Balance Sheet Adjusted profit before tax 21.8 57.7 Overall Group stock increased by 32.9 million to 377.1 million.
This reflects the growth of EUKs business including the Adjusted Segmental Analysis acquisitions of THE and Bertram.
The Woolworths retail stock for the 53 weeks to 3 February 2007 was down 8 million.
Overall, the quality of the Group stock Entertainment improved during the year, reducing the need for provisions.
Wholesale and Continuing Retail Publishing Unallocated Interest Total Operations m m m m m During the year seven store freeholds were purchased at a Reported loss profit cost of 9.3 million.
Profits of 6.4 million were earned on the before taxation 14.8 49.2 7.7 10.7 16.0 assignment of three store leases during the year.
A review of the expected life of tenants fixtures and fittings was carried out Adjust for: in the light of experience and the store refurbishment programme.
exceptional items 8.7 8.7 This resulted in a reduction of depreciation of 5.8 million in the second half of the year.
Loss profit before exceptional items 23.5 49.2 7.7 10.7 7.3 A review was also carried out of the liability for unredeemed gift Add back: vouchers in the light of historic experience and this resulted in amortisation of certain a reduction in creditors and a one-off credit to the income intangible assets 3.9 3.9 statement of 3.2 million.
fixed rental uplifts 10.6 10.6 Cash Flow and Net Debt Adjusted loss profit The Groups average net debt increased to 113 million from before tax 12.9 53.1 7.7 10.7 21.8 37 million in the prior year.
The main drivers of this increase were the growth of the Entertainment UK business whose working Adjusted Segmental Analysis capital requirements increased by approximately 50 million and for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2006 the acquisition of THE in September 2006 for 20 million.
In the Entertainment Wholesale and Retail business, capital expenditure was 62.4 million, reflecting Continuing Retail Publishing Unallocated Interest Total the acceleration of the store refit programme and investment Operations m m m m m in multichannel capability which together more than offset the Reported profit loss benefits from reduced stock levels.
before taxation 30.3 48.2 7.6 9.4 61.5 Adjust for: exceptional items 24.2 5.2 1.2 17.8 Profit before exceptional items 6.1 53.4 6.4 9.4 43.7 Add back: amortisation of certain intangible assets 3.0 3.0 fixed rental uplifts 11.0 11.0 Adjusted profit loss before tax 17.1 56.4 6.4 9.4 57.7 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Excludes amortisation of certain intangible assets arising on consolidation, namely Directors Report Business Review Finance Director underlying rights, customer relationships and trade names.
15 Directors Report Business Review Finance Directors Report The year-end net debt was 103.3 million compared to net cash Acquisitions of 147.7 million in the prior year.
This reflects the effect of the On 5 September 2006, the Group acquired AMP Enterprises 53rd week, with approximately 100 million of supplier payments Limited, the holding company for Total Home Entertainment which would not usually be due until after the balance sheet Distribution Limited THE for 20.3 million.
date: completion of the acquisition of Bertram Group Limited on 1 February 2007: the earlier acquisition of THE and the On 17 January 2007 the Group announced the proposed working capital needs of the Entertainment Wholesale business.
acquisition of Bertram Group Limited for 28.9 million plus Woolworths capital expenditure in 2007 08 will be at a much debt of 12.2 million.
Completion in relation to all except a reduced level of approximately 35 million, reflecting the small balance of shares occurred on 1 February 2007 and the completion of the 10 10 store refit programme.
This, together with compulsory acquisition of the remaining shares is expected working capital improvements in Entertainment UK and reduced to be completed by mid-April 2007.
As required, the results of stocks in Woolworths, will partially offset the full-year effect on Bertram Group Limited are consolidated from 17 January 2007 average net debt of funding the THE and Bertram acquisitions.
at which time a binding commitment to acquire was in place.
Exceptional Items Pensions Previously, no benefit has been taken in the actuarial estimates The Group retains a Final Salary Pension scheme open to all for commutation.
The evidence, however, is that most people employees who have been with the Group for a minimum do commute as much of their pension as possible and we have period of 12 months.
therefore changed the assumptions to make a prudent estimate of the likely level of commutation.
This reduces the anticipated The Scheme was created at the time of demerger and only cost of meeting the pension schemes ongoing obligations.
comprised active members at that time.
It is therefore a much less A 13.1 million reduction in the estimated pension fund liability mature scheme than most.
It has 5,638 active members, 3,304 arising from this change in assumptions based on pre A-Day deferred members but only 956 current pensioners and therefore commutation limits has been taken to the Statement of the Scheme receives more in contributions from the Group and Recognised Income and Expense.
members than it pays out in pensions.
This is likely to continue to be the case for approximately 12 years.
The exceptional credit of 8.7 million reflects the effect of the A-Day reforms to pensions in relation to the increased amount The assets of the Scheme are managed by external Fund of future pension which can be commuted into a lump sum Managers and at 3 February 2007 were 316.0 million 2006: on retirement.
The allocation of Scheme assets is kept under regular review by the Trustees of the Scheme.
The liabilities Taxation calculated at the current level of fixed rate bond yields were The effective tax rate on current year profits from continuing 400.0 million 2006: 416.8 million giving an IAS 19 deficit of operations is 15 per cent compared to 32.8 per cent in the 58.8 million 2006: 91.6 million net of tax relief.
This was lower than usual because of the effect of proportion of current active members and the timescales until a 5.6 million prior year tax credit which primarily arose as a pensions are due to be payable does not make the calculation number of historic tax provisions were identified as no longer particularly relevant.
The full triennial actuarial valuation at 31 required following agreement of a number of historic queries.
March 2005 showed that the Scheme was 89 per cent funded This was slightly offset by the effect of a fixed level of nonwith a deficit of 28.9 million.
Recent information indicates that deductible expenses being spread over a lower level of Group this has continued to improve and on those assumptions the profits.
Under existing tax legislation it is anticipated that the Scheme would now be fully funded.
The contribution rate paid by effect pre-exceptional Group tax rate will remain marginally participating companies remains at 13.5 per cent of pensionable above the main UK Corporation Tax rate.
The next triennial actuarial valuation is due to be carried out at 31 March 2008.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Finance Director 16 Directors Report Business Review Finance Directors Report Treasury Policy Interest The Groups Treasury Policy is structured to ensure that The Treasury Policy requires that an interest hedging plan for adequate financial resources are available for the development each year is approved by the Finance Director at the time of of its business whilst managing its currency, interest rate and the annual budget.
The Treasury function is permitted to hedge counterparty credit risks.
The Groups Treasury strategy, policy in accordance with this plan using interest rate products such and controls are developed centrally and approved by the as swaps, options, forward rate agreements and futures.
The Group does not engage in speculative transactions.
The Group will keep under review the opportunity to hedge The main elements of Treasury activity are outlined below: its interest exposure following the increase in its debt profile during the year.
Funding To date, the interest payable on drawings from the Groups The Treasury function arranges sufficient secure financial revolving credit facility has been at floating rates driven by the resources to enable the Group to meet its medium-term business relatively short borrowing period that the Groups businesses objectives whilst arranging facility maturities appropriate to its require each year and the variation in amounts borrowed during projected needs.
Interest receivable on investments has also been at floating rates for short maturities given the seasonality of During the year, the Group amended its existing committed bank the Groups cash flows.
facilities updating certain terms and reducing slightly the amount committed to 225 million.
The amended facilities which mature Counterparty Credit Risk in August 2009 were sufficient to refinance the 100 million Bond in November 2006.
THE and Bertram also have access to their The Group actively manages its relationships with a panel of own invoice discounting facilities of 40 million and 20 million high quality financial institutions.
Credit risk is controlled by the respectively.
In addition to core financing arrangements, the Treasury function setting counterparty credit limits by reference Treasury function manages trade finance facilities to support the to published rating agency credit ratings.
The Treasury Policy import of product and overdraft facilities associated with its dayrecognises that an exposure to a counterparty arises in relation to-day banking activities.
to investments, derivatives and financial instruments.
Since the year-end, the Group has obtained additional Going Concern short-term committed facilities totalling 75 million maturing The Directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have a in December 2007. reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Currency For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis The Groups main currency translation exposure is limited to in preparing these accounts.
movements in exchange rates to the extent that they affect balances held on its currency bank accounts and certain foreign currency assets and liabilities in the books of its Hong Kongbased product sourcing company, Woolworths Group Asia Limited.
Foreign currency bank balances are controlled by the Treasury function and are actively managed to a level that Stephen East minimises currency translation exposures.
The Groups Finance Director main currency exposure is its transaction exposure through 27 March 2007 movements in exchange rates on its purchases overseas that are not denominated in Sterling.
These are mainly imports from Asia denominated in US dollars and imports from Europe denominated in Euros.
The Treasury Policy sets out a framework through which the majority of the Groups forecast foreign currency transactions are hedged.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Finance Director 17
