Operating and Financial Due Diligence 9% Bridges 14% Acoustics 5% Environment Planning Rail 23% 15% Review Strategic Highways Risk 34% Soil & WE ARE ConFiDenT THAT WE Management Groundwork 15% 30% WILL CONTINUE TO DELIVER RESULTS IN LINE WITH OUR STRATEGIC PLAN CHRISTOPHER COLE MALCOLM PAUL Climate OVER THE YEARS AHEAD.
Chief Executive Change 16% Financial Director Local Authority 8% Utilities 4% Others 8% Water 4% CSR 10% T echnology 9% Remediation 10% WSP has had an outstanding year: delivering a financial performance Our vision is to be the outstanding supplier of these specialist ahead of the Groups Strategic Plan: completing nine acquisitions on and integrated service and to fulfil this vision we actively promote four continents: and confirming its position as a leading international our core values of Trust, Sharing & Supporting, Pride & Passion, consultant with a wide and diverse portfolio.
Divisional Analysis Urban Transport & Airports & Regeneration & our Business Model and Strategy Infrastructure Stations Retail 14% 8% 30% WSP is a global business with three core divisions of Property, Hotels, Leisure & Stadia Hospitals, Transport & Infrastructure and Environment & Energy.
9% Schools & Property Prisons 15% 56% WSP Property is an international leader in structural, building services design and associated engineering for all types of buildings.
Central & Local Government 12% WSP Transport & Infrastructure provides design engineering for roads, rail, marine, bridges, tunnels and utility services.
Environment & Energy WSP Environment & Energy is a global business providing a broad Corporate & Commercial 14% range of green services with particular emphasis on sustainability.
18% Other 11% We have permanent offices in more than 35 countries around the Traffic Planning world and carry out projects in more than 60 countries.
At the year for Development 13% end we employed over 9,400 staff.
SS Great Britain was the worlds first iron hulled, screw propeller-driven, steam-powered passenger liner.
Diversification is the cornerstone of our business model and during In 2005 we commenced the WSP five year Strategic Plan designed to set financial and operational targets to improve the business for all 2007 we made a series of strategic acquisitions to supplement our stakeholders.
the organic growth of the Group.
In all cases the acquisitions bring to the Group new skills, new clients and new geographic regions in which to promote all our services.
The integration of these businesses is progressing well and we are confident that WSPS Five Year Strategic Plan the increased coverage these acquisitions bring will contribute significantly to our future performance.
Financial 15% Annual revenue growth 0.5% Annual adjusted margin growth Principal Acquisitions in 2007 Diversification Entec S Africa Marine New geographic business regions L C Consulting S Africa Structural Broaden sector skills and capabilities WS & B S Africa Refrigeration operational Fitzwalter Australia Environmental 15% of revenue from cross-selling services Lincolne Scott Australia Green Buildings 15% of revenue from global clients Chas H Sells USA Transport & Infrastructure CBP Germany Design & Project Management SEi USA Building Services At the end of the third year we are well ahead of this Plan.
Total revenue has increased from 322m in 2004 to 577m in 2007, a CEL International UK Industrial Process compound increase of 79%, whilst adjusted profit margins have increased from 5.4% to 7.6%.
New businesses have been started or acquired in Europe, the Middle We have commissioned an external review of our management East, USA, Australia, Germany, and India and skills such as industrial information systems to ensure we make best use of the vast amount of knowledge available throughout the Group and we are constantly process engineering, coastal marine engineering and management consulting have been added to the Groups service offering.
enhancing our information technology capabilities to respond to the rapidly developing requirements and expectations of our clients.
As one of a small number of international businesses capable of delivering a one stop shop, approximately 9% of our revenue is now We also continue to invest in research and development activities across the broad spectrum of our business in order to ensure we derived from clients who buy a combination of our services while global clients, which we define as those who use our services in at offer our clients the most up to date and effective solutions.
Our objective, for both these metrics, is to reach 15% in line with our Strategic Plan.
Our employees remain our greatest asset and through an integrated approach to induction, training, global opportunities and career development we are able to attract the best qualified professionals at all levels within the Group.
WSP Annual Report 2007 7 The Market and our Clients Transport & infrastructure The Market dynamics of our three core business divisions are very The Transport and Infrastructure divisions, which represent approximately 30% of our total revenues, are nearly all driven different.
by Government requirements and their commitment to such expenditure is usually highly visible.
Long term contracts are therefore the norm with agreed fee rates built in, however effective pricing is essential in this sector as margins are generally tighter than Property elsewhere.
The Property division is spread across many different markets In countries like Sweden, the Government regularly publishes a and clients, thereby addressing the issue of cyclicality, and our rolling ten year commitment to public sector construction.
WSP is appointment on projects is often based on the skills of our staff and one of the two leading road and rail consultants in that market and their technical credentials rather than price.
We have always adopted we are therefore extremely well placed to share in project awards as a commercial approach in this area as both consultants and clients demonstrated by the new contracts gained in 2007. are well aware of the rate for the job leading to fairly constant pricing irrespective of market conditions.
In the UK, the increased involvement of the Group in some of the major highway framework agreements is very pleasing and we Public sector procurement drives the need for hospitals, schools are well placed to improve in this area following recent successes.
and prisons work which we often undertake as part of a consortium Generally, we focus on the strategic management of existing road and where some form of private finance is involved.
We do not generally rail assets and we believe the Government will continue to invest in take equity stakes in the special purpose vehicles created to deliver this area.
these facilities and our appointment is normally on a sub-contract basis.
Increasingly we are providing higher value front end advice on We are also exporting our skills in this division to the Middle East such contracts through our Management Consultancy capability.
and South Africa where there is a desperate need for upgraded infrastructure and we are already reporting contract wins in these The development of airports and railway stations is usually driven markets.
Our recent acquisition in this sector in the USA is also by operators and where possible we seek to establish long-term designed to allow the Group to further diversify our skill set in the framework agreements such as those in the UK with Network Rail region and take advantage of the commitment by Federal and State and BAA at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted.
Governments to maintain the stock of public assets.
Our work in the residential construction market worldwide is limited to premium residences such as those found in New York, London and Dubai.
Our high level traffic modelling and related advice to support environment & energy the future planning requirements of house-builders continues in the UK in order to secure planning consent for many years ahead thus As anticipated, both the environment and energy sectors are creating valuable land banks for developers.
developing rapidly and our markets around the world have many drivers.
The introduction of new legislation around environmental In the corporate and commercial world WSP is well known for liability and energy performance is particularly relevant to the delivering trophy buildings for many of the worlds largest institutions ongoing development of this business.
and for working with the worlds major architects.
The procurement process, whilst varied, normally follows three principal stages from The strategic acquisitions made in 2006 are performing well and are concept design, through detailed design to construction supervision.
now fully integrated into the business and delivering the expected The nature and time span of these projects is such that the Group synergies.
draws fees over many years and no projects demonstrate this better than the work WSP continues to carry out on the three towers at Ground Zero in New York, which will not be completed until 2012.
Our clients are varied and come both from the public and private sectors.
We have realised our objective to become one of a small The opportunity for the Group to work on major international number of environmental consultants who have true global reach, and projects is steadily increasing not only because of our technical ability our ability to deliver consistently to multi-national clients is resulting but also because of our global reach.
We have established a central in an increase in global service agreements.
This is particularly team to respond responsibly to such enquiries and we are seeing important to us given our aim to generate further resilience in the significant project wins, which have enhanced our order book.
The leisure markets are particularly busy at the present time with new developments proceeding in hotels, casinos and sporting facilities.
Events such as the Football World Cup in South Africa and the 2012 London Olympics are creating demand for our services for the Financial headlines foreseeable future.
WSPs 2007 financial results are outstanding.
Revenue, including the Groups share of associated companies and joint ventures, has increased to 577m 2006: 449m, an increase of 28%, of which 7% arises from acquisitions made during the year.
8 WSP Annual Report 2007 Adjusted headline Results 2007 2006 Revenue Revenue Increase m m Property 313.5 238.8 31.8% Transport & Infrastructure 144.8 120.4 20.3% Environment & Energy 80.7 57.5 40.3% Revenue 539.0 416.7 29.3% Joint ventures & associates 38.4 32.7 17.4% Total Revenue 577.4 449.4 28.5% Profit 2007 2007 2007 2006 Statutory Adjustments Adjusted Adjusted Increase m m m m Property 23.3 1.3 24.5 16.7 46.7% Transport & Infrastructure 9.9 0.1 10.0 7.8 28.2% Environment & Energy 5.8 0.3 6.1 3.8 60.5% operating profit 38.9 1.7 40.6 28.3 43.5% Joint ventures & associates 2.3 1.0 3.3 2.4 37.5% before tax of 1.0m 2006: 0.7m Profit before interest and tax 41.2 2.7 43.9 30.7 43.0% Net finance costs 3.8 - 3.8 3.2 Profit before tax 37.4 2.7 40.1 27.5 45.8% Tax including JV & associates tax 10.6 1.1 11.7 7.9 Profit after tax 26.8 1.6 28.4 19.6 Basic eps 43.0p 2.6p 45.6p 32.0p 42.5% Diluted eps 42.3p 2.6p 44.9p 31.0p 44.8% The directors believe that to assist stakeholders to understand the performance of the Group the statutory profit should be adjusted by adding back the amortisation on intangible assets arising on business combinations including tax effect and the tax deducted from joint ventures and associates.
These adjustments give rise to an adjusted profit of 43.9m in 2007 2006: 30.7m, details of which are shown on the Consolidated Income Statement on page 52.
Our focus on effective resource management has also helped to Risk Management increase the Groups adjusted profit margin from 6.8% to 7.6%.
Our strategic target is to increase this margin to 8% by 2009, however we In managing WSP we recognise the risks inherent in our business believe we are well placed to exceed this rate of return in 2008. model and we have identified those areas which may have a particular impact on our business.
The detailed information that follows provides an overview of the separate core business divisions, the international diversity and the We carry out quarterly assessments of how these risks change financial performance together with some of the contract wins and and how the Group responds to changing circumstances, and we highlights of the year.
have recently established an internal audit capability to ensure we monitor our response to risk management.
Where appropriate the headline financial performance is supported with Key Performance Indicators that the Directors regard as being We identify the business opportunities that are available to the particularly relevant to our business.
Group having regard to the commercial sensitivity of some of our initiatives.
In particular, we monitor: adjusted profit margins to drive improvement through better productivity and staff utilisation: the future order book to provide confidence in the visibility and resilience of our business: and employee numbers to monitor the trends relating to recruitment, retention and training.
The numbers of staff reported in this review reflect the full time equivalents employed by the Group at 31 December 2007 and 2006.
WSP Annual Report 2007 9 Key Risks Client satisfaction Growing market share Resource utilisation Economic downturn Reputation risk Working capital management Litigation Business interruption Client satisfaction The success of the Group is entirely dependent on the satisfaction of our clients with the work we do on many varied projects across the world.
Our clients for the most part are Government and Blue Chip Institutions and corporate clients who have a regular and recurring need for our services and we estimate that at least 75% of our work comes from repeat orders from this wide client base.
We have established quality control procedures in all our offices and service delivery in a timely and focused manner is an imperative for our management team.
Growing market share In the developed world, the size of the markets in which we work are relatively static reflecting the limits of expenditure for both Governments and business.
In developing countries, markets are growing dramatically for both economic and cultural reasons.
Our strategy of building a diverse business model across many different regions allows us to move between these markets and the concept of offering a one stop shop means we are one of a very small number of worldwide businesses that can provide clients with a complete package of services.
Resource utilisation A major objective of the Groups strategy is to improve profit margins and this is achieved by improving operational efficiency, which usually means maximising staff utilisation.
We do this through careful planning of projects, the use of off-shoring capabilities in India and the Far East and by monitoring performance on contracts.
Where projects are based on time and materials the recording of time spent and recovered is a simple process to monitor and where this is the norm utilisation figures are regularly and closely watched.
On contracts where our fees are related to the cost of build we use resource management tools to analyse our progress and using the financial assessment of stage of completion coupled with costs to complete we ensure we meet improving utilisation targets.
economic downturn Major capital expenditure related to construction may be impacted by external economic circumstances.
Having recognised this risk the Group embarked upon its strategy of diversification both in terms of geographical regions, sectors of business and a broad range of skills.
The Swedish Rail Administration has awarded WSP a 19m contract for design in relation to the City Line in Stockholm 10 WSP Annual Report 2007 We believe that negative external economic factors are unlikely to apply to every region in which we operate at the same time.
We have also ensured that we have exposure to both the public and private sectors as they have different economic drivers and we are able to offer flexible and diverse skills across a very wide range of construction projects.
Reputation risk As a world leader in our industry our ability to win the trophy projects of which we are so proud requires us to maintain our reputation for the delivery of high quality work, on time and on budget.
Our quality control systems are designed to ensure the services we provide are excellent and we have a system of peer reviews to check and monitor progress.
We want our brand to represent excellence and we have developed programmes to promote and protect our brand for the benefit of the Group as a whole.
Working capital management The Group has robust financial management systems and we have recently established an internal audit capability which, amongst other things, will review our internal controls on a regular basis.
As a service industry the majority of our costs are incurred before we recover fees from our clients and therefore the management Skills, experience and creative thinking provide the cornerstone of the services that we offer.
of cash is critical to the well being of the Group.
We have a series of financial metrics we monitor centrally to ensure effective short, medium and long term awareness of our global cash requirements.
We have also established strong relationships with a number of retail banks around the world who provide the finance for working capital Bangladesh Cyclone Sidr and acquisitions and we ensure that we provide these banks with relevant information on a timely basis.
Cyclone Sidr hit coastal areas of Bangladesh in litigation November 2007, causing widespread destruction.
Now WSP is spearheading a relief programme for the areas The nature of construction is such that situations arise from time to worst humanitarian crisis in over thirty years.
WSP will time on projects where claims for professional negligence of design be providing project management, design and planning or delays may arise from clients, contractors or other professionals.
during the rehabilitation process which will build roads, We have established processes which are designed to respond to embankments, a landing stage for fishing boats, all the such situations as soon as they become apparent as we know that houses, and a large cyclone shelter with cyclone warning a timely response will limit the Groups exposure.
The islanders have already been provided with developed insurance programme across the world that will respond warm clothing, seeds and power tillers, and trees will to such claims and where appropriate the Group accounts for any be planted and livestock replaced.
Two surveying teams uninsured loss as soon as it is identified.
However, on rare occasions of WSP volunteers are currently at work on Char, with where litigation may follow the Group will use arbitration or the first undertaking an asset survey to determine what mediation services to reach an amicable solution wherever possible.
remains of the housing stock and the second surveying for the new road infrastructure and landing stage.
Business interruption Once surveys and planning are completed the phased WSP makes extensive use of technology to support its business construction will start.
Phase One will see the services and knowledge management databases.
We have an effective construction of an embankment around the housing IT platform and we have established procedures to protect the compound to protect dwellings from annual high tides Group against data loss or damage.
We monitor our IT security and monsoon.
procedures on a regular basis and an early requirement for acquisitions is to ensure that they use properly licensed software and Our most valuable input to this project is using our have an appropriate control regime.
With offices in many countries skills in rural development says Mike Hughes of WSP we naturally limit our exposure to interruptions that may result from International Management Consultants.
Its as much the loss of facilities in any one location.
about rehabilitation of a community and a society as surveying and engineering.
WSP Annual Report 2007 11 Property THE PROPERTY DIVISION IS SPREAD ACROSS MAnY DiFFeRenT MARKeTS AND CLIENTS, THEREBY ADDRESSING THE ISSUE OF CYCLICALITY.
2007 2006 2007 2006 order Book Order Book employees Employees m m no.
Planning Rail 23% 313.5 24.5 7.8% 15% United Kingdom 232.9 179.1 1,847 1,491 Strategic Highways Risk Mainland Europe 98.2 63.6 1,246 1,091 34% Soil & Management United States of America 120.4 97.8 727 534 Groundwork 15% 30% Africa, India & Middle East 102.1 77.1 1,107 733 The Property division represents about 56% of our global business Our strategy of diversification in order to address cyclicality has Far East & Australia 48.3 5.2 653 226 and has shown strong underlying organic growth throughout 2007, ensured that the building projects on which we work cover a wide Climate which has been supplemented by targeted acquisitions in specific variety of sub sectors, with no material reliance on types of projects Change 16% 601.9 422.8 5,580 4,075 Local regions.
or particular clients Authority 8% Our revenue has grown organically by 20.5% to 287.8m 2006: The technical qualifications of our staff allow them to use their Utilities 4% 238.8m and adjusted profit by 34.7% to 22.5m 2006: 16.7m.
professional knowledge to design many different kinds of building and Water 4% Others 8% Our focus on improving profit margins is well known and our target they are therefore CSR 10%capable of working between sub-sectors and cross T echnology 9% Remediation 10% in this division is to reach a sustainable margin of at least 8%.
years increase from 7.0% to 7.8% is therefore very satisfactory.
Our acquisitions in this division have been targeted to bring new skills and new geographic regions to the Group thus spreading our risk.
Lincolne Scott is the premier Australian green buildings Property Analysis engineer with additional offices in New Zealand, Thailand and Singapore.
Urban Transport & Airports & Regeneration & Infrastructure Stations Retail 14% In South Africa, two businesses specialising in structural engineering 8% 30% and refrigeration were added to the Group making WSP the leading Hotels, Leisure property design engineers in Southern Africa.
& Stadia Hospitals, 9% Schools & Property Prisons 15% To take advantage of the recovering property investment markets 56% in Germany, and to support our expansion into Eastern Europe, we completed the acquisition of CBP.
We have also acquired CEL Central & Local Government International a process engineer in the chemical, pharmaceutical and 12% food industries, operating in the UK, Ireland and China.
In the USA the specialist building services company, SEi, has increased our pool of talented staff with new offices in Boston, Washington and Houston.
Environment & Energy Corporate & Commercial 14% 18% Other 11% Traffic Planning for Development 13% WSP Annual Report 2007 13 24 yrs 30 yrs 60 yrs 8% 20-29 yrs 3% 8% 4% 25-29 yrs 15-19 yrs 2 yrs 55-59 yrs 18% 4% 43% 7% 10-14 yrs 6% 50-54 yrs 7% 5-9 yrs 16% 30-34 yrs 16% 45-49 yrs 9% 40-44 yrs 12% 35-39 yrs 2-4 yrs 24% 15% Our acquisition of Lincolne Scott in 2007 provides us with one of the worlds leading sustainable engineering businesses.
All these businesses were acquired in the second half of 2007 and Property related investment in Sweden has remained the same integration is proceeding well.
We expect all these acquisitions to be for the last two years and is forecast to continue at a similar level earnings enhancing and to contribute fully to our results in 2008. throughout 2008 and 2009.
We expect a continued public sector commitment to health and education and our broad geographical The increase in the order book of our Property division to a record coverage of the Scandinavian market means we are well placed 602m reflects the substantial amount of new work won across the to benefit.
In Germany we are project managers for Berlins new world.
Of particular relevance is the amount of work already secured international airport and we have started general planning work for for 2008 and 2009 which at 65% and 42% provides confidence in our Terminal 1 at Frankfurt airport.
revenue targets for those years.
In the USA we are one of a very small number of major consultants Regionally, the development of our Property division has been closely in the large cities on both the east and west coasts and as a result aligned to meeting the diverse requirements of our clients who we have seen a strong order book with a number of high profile increasingly need the services of a large, multi-skilled consultant with project wins.
We have recently been appointed for the prestigious New York Museum of Modern Art designed by the French architect global reach.
In many countries a more formalised approach to client relationships is leading to partnering or framework agreements which Jean Nouvel for Goldman Sachs and Hines, the MGM Resort in naturally build resilience in our business model.
Atlantic City and the Transbay Transit Centre for Hines in San Francisco.
In addition, our good standing with other professionals continues to We are seeing exceptionally strong markets in the Middle East develop.
We are presently working on design projects with many of the worlds leading architects such as Foster & Partners, Renzo Piano, where we have recently opened a new office in Abu Dhabi.
New Cesar Pelli & Associates, Zaha Hadid, Frank Gehry, HOK and SOM.
projects include the Dubai World Trade Centre Expo Plaza, Al Faanar Development in Saudi Arabia, Al Salam Resort in Bahrain and In the UK we are working on many mixed use schemes such as our appointment to the Dubai Urban Framework.
Paradise Street in Liverpool, Europes largest city regeneration project, where the construction spend is close to 1 billion.
We are Our offices in Southern Africa, India, Asia and Australia have all seen regarded as one of the worlds leading designers of high rise towers increases in their order books to record levels underpinned by the and confirmation of the funding for The Shard of Glass, Europes rapid expansion of their economies.
Most pleasing is the continued tallest building to be constructed in London as well as our success in development of long term client relationships such as with DLF in India where we are working in Delhi on the Mall of India, the winning the U2 Tower in Dublin adds significantly to our order book.
New work has been won in the health, education and prison sectors International Convention Centre and Cyber City.
and we believe we have established a good balance between both privately and publicly procured projects.
14 WSP Annual Report 2007 Masdar WSP has been commissioned to develop the sustainable infrastructure strategies for the detailed masterplan of the Masdar initiative in Abu Dhabi, UAE.
The initiative is being led by Masdar, part of the Abu Dhabi Future Energy Company ADFEC.
With an estimated completion date of 2015, Masdar will not only be the worlds first operationally zero carbon city but it will also be the first city to be built using zero carbon energy.
Masdar is a 6 million square metre sustainable city designed to use low carbon technologies to achieve a car-free, zero waste, carbon neutral community.
It has been designed using the principals of One Planet Living OPL, a set of ten guiding principals of sustainability, proposed in a joint initiative by WWF and Bioregional Development, whereby everyone lives within their fair share of the Earths resources.
WSP is developing sustainable infrastructure strategies for several integral aspects of the Masdar development.
This includes developing strategies for waste management, drainage and treatment of water and sewage and the distribution of energy and power throughout the city.
We are also responsible for developing systems for IT and telecommunications for the city including all the necessary intelligent infrastructures such as security systems, fire sprinkler systems, cooling systems and wireless networks.
WSP Annual Report 2007 15 Transport & Infrastructure THE TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE DIVISIONS, WHICH REPRESENT APPROXIMATELY 30% OF OUR TOTAL REVENUES, ARE NEARLY ALL DRIVEN BY GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS AND THEIR COMMITMENT TO SUCH EXPENDITURE IS USUALLY hiGhlY viSiBle.
The Group has benefited from the continued growth of investment Transport & Infrastructure has a highly visible order book supported in public sector expenditure on Transport & Infrastructure with by long term contracts and framework agreements.
United Kingdom 104.0 114.6 961 714 revenue from continuing activities increasing by 16.1% from 120.4m Mainland Europe 79.0 61.1 1,189 970 to 139.8m.
Of particular note is the excellent 31% growth in the This year our order book has increased by 20% with a series of good United States of America 32.5 - 269 - UK which has resulted from the change of the management team wins, and in January 2008 we secured from Northampton County Africa, India & Middle East 20.7 21.0 241 214 in 2006 and the focus on winning more long term Government Council an eight year, extendable by four years, road framework Far East & Australia 6.3 6.2 82 63 framework agreements.
agreement, in joint venture with May Gurney.
This contract is estimated to add a further 160m to our December 2007 secured 242.5 202.9 2,742 1,961 We have also been successful in improving our adjusted profit order book and we are optimistic of being able to announce further margins from 6.5% to 6.9%, which is a creditable performance in contract wins in the near term.
a market that is sensitive to price, and our sustainable target of at least 7% is well within reach in the coming year.
Other notable long term wins in the UK include appointments on the four year Highways Agency Technology Consultancy, the Transport We are also very pleased to have acquired a Transport & for London North Area Consultancy Support and Central Area Infrastructure capability in the USA through the purchase of Chas Highways Structural Contract, the Network Rail Professional Services H Sells which means we now provide the Groups three core Framework as well as term contracts with South Yorkshire, Solihull services in that country.
Sells main business is highway design and and Wokingham Councils.
maintenance, together with a specialist capability in bridge survey and inspection, which operates predominately in the north eastern The Swedish Rail Administration has awarded WSP a 19m contract United States.
for design in relation to the central parts of the City Line, a new underground line in Stockholm and we have been appointed as part of a joint venture to carry out the conceptual design of the Transport & infrastructure Analysis Stockholm Bypass for the Swedish Road Administration.
Due Diligence 9% Bridges 14% Acoustics 5% In Finland we have won two major infrastructure projects for the Environment Helsinki Western Metro and the Airport Railway Link.
Our bridge Planning Rail 23% 15% expertise in Finland has resulted in new contracts for the local Ratina Bridge and the new Danang Bridge in Vietnam, as well as a five year Strategic bridge management contract.
Highways Risk 34% Soil & Management We continue to build critical mass in Southern Africa where we are Groundwork 15% 30% technical advisors to the N3 toll concession between Johannesburg and Durban, a five year contract that is extendable in five year tranches and in the Middle East where new appointments include Yas Island Southern Marina Tunnel in Abu Dhabi and new mountain roads Climate Change 16% in Sharjah.
Local Authority 8% Utilities 4% Others 8% Water 4% CSR 10% Technology 9% Remediation 10% WSP Annual Report 2007 17 Urban Transport & Airports & Regeneration & Infrastructure Stations Retail 14% 8% 30% Hotels, Leisure & Stadia Hospitals, 9% Schools & Property Prisons 15% 56% Central & Local Government 12% Environment & Energy Corporate & Commercial 14% 18% Other 11% Traffic Planning for Development 13% 24 yrs 30 yrs 60 yrs 8% 20-29 yrs 3% 8% 4% 15-19 yrs 25-29 yrs 2 yrs 55-59 yrs 4% 18% 43% 7% 10-14 yrs 6% 50-54 yrs 7% 5-9 yrs 16% 30-34 yrs 16% 45-49 yrs 9% 40-44 yrs 12% 35-39 yrs 2-4 yrs 24% 15% Environment & Energy BOTH THE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY SECTORS ARE DeveloPinG RAPiDlY AND OUR MARKETS AROUND THE WORLD HAVE MANY DRIVERS.
United Kingdom 43.6 38.8 592 514 Mainland Europe 16.3 11.6 245 217 As anticipated, our Environment & Energy division is delivering good Our delivery capability as a world class sustainability consultant has United States of America 25.7 19.8 158 138 results in strong markets which benefit from the growing green been significantly strengthened in 2007, with commissions on cutting Africa, India & Middle East 3.4 2.5 46 44 agenda.
We are one of a very small number of companies to be able edge projects in the Middle East, USA, UK, Australia and China, Far East & Australia 5.6 3.2 86 63 to offer our clients global reach and this has resulted in our success reflecting our position at the forefront of strategies associated with in winning a series of global master service agreements with such climate change and sustainability.
companies as Federal Mogul, Schlumberger and General Electric.
94.6 75.9 1,127 976 Our reputation as leaders in the area of sustainable master-planning Revenues have increased by 40%, helped by a full contribution from has been further emphasised with high profile commissions with new WSP Environmental Strategies, the US consultant acquired in 2006. towns and cities.
Furthermore, our work in embedding sustainability Underlying organic growth, excluding this acquisition, was 24%.
and managing carbon emissions within global corporations reinforces Adjusted profit margins have moved strongly ahead to 7.6% and we the spectrum of clients that are affected by these topical issues.
are confident this improvement will continue in the years ahead to We are confident that we see the emergence of sustainability as a meet our target of at least 8.5%.
specialist business area and we feel confident of our market position and our ability to deliver evermore significant value from this area.
Our markets are impacted by ever increasing legislation and we are well positioned to provide support to clients on issues such Using our Active Transfer product we have entered into an as REACH, which legislates against the use of hazardous chemicals environmental liability transfer solution, backed by insurance policies, in products in the European Union.
This not only affects those enabling WSP to remediate a former Kodak site which will unlock organisations within Europe but also those in other regions who future development opportunities in the Liverpool area.
We believe wish to sell into Europe.
These cross border environmental drivers this to be the first time such a solution has been used in this country support our global structure in this business.
and we are optimistic that this will be the first of many.
The Energy Performance of Buildings Directive is driving many Appointments such as these have led to continued growth in our property owners to assess the energy performance of their order book which now stands at a record 94.6m.
Whilst the property portfolios due to the potential impact on asset values.
projects we work on are relatively short term the growing trend of We have been commissioned in the UK to conduct audits, produce the order book supports our optimism for the year ahead.
compliance certificates and advise on portfolio upgrades.
In addition, we are presently supporting the Swedish Government Regionally, we have a market leading position in many service areas in with the process of implementation of the European Union Energy the UK where demand continues to grow for environmental liability Performance Certification regulations.
management, sustainability and climate change services, acoustics, planning support, due diligence auditing and strategic services for corporations.
WSP Annual Report 2007 19 In Europe, our Swedish business continues to perform well delivering Our business in the Middle East is largely centred in the United multi-disciplinary environmental and energy services alongside Arab Emirates, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
Whilst revenues are lower innovative solutions in the climate change and carbon markets.
We than the previous year, after having completed a major contract for have developed online tools to address key issues such as carbon the Saudi Government, we are building capacity to respond in areas foot-printing and to determine the most efficient delivery of energy such as environmental impact analysis, environmental management, to new developments.
Elsewhere, we have completed geo-environmental and environmental The environment and supply of energy in the region is receiving impact assessments for the 1.5 million sq ft Colosseum Centre retail much attention, and we anticipate that this will be an area of strong and leisure development in Bucharest and due diligence auditing growth as this market emerges.
Our early engagement with the across Eastern Europe for the European Bank for Reconstruction & region, developing policies and standards at the country level, Development.
Our European due diligence team reported to Accor positions us well to gain the downstream potential that is becoming on the sale and leaseback of their 130 hotel portfolio across the apparent.
Netherlands, Germany and the UK.
In Australia, the business has delivered well in a resilient market.
In the USA, where we have strong credentials in contamination Our sector focus on oil and gas, mining and large corporations is assessment and environmental liability management, as well as serving us well and we anticipate resilience in these markets in 2008. remediation design and engineering, we have embarked on a strategy Through the acquisition of Fitzwalter in 2007 we have added urban for growth and diversification in line with our other regional regeneration skills to complement our contaminated land and health businesses.
We have introduced specialist teams focused on Ecosystem Science Whilst relatively small, our representation in South Africa and the and Restoration, and Natural Resource Damage Assessment.
These Far East provides the global coverage required by our multi-national teams have highly experienced people, specialising in the protection of clients and we are working on strategies to build these businesses in rare species and the restoration of damaged sites, with knowledge of response to the demands of the local markets.
regulations at the federal, state and local level.
We are also using our global expertise to support the development of sustainable strategies for clients such as Cisco Systems Inc. and Harvard University.
environment & energy Analysis Due Diligence 9% Bridges 14% Acoustics 5% Environment Planning Rail 23% 15% Strategic Highways Risk 34% Soil & Management Groundwork 15% 30% Climate Change 16% Local Authority 8% Utilities 4% Others 8% Water 4% CSR 10% Technology 9% Remediation 10% WSP Coastal Africa was appointed to design repairs to the main breakwater at Yzerfontein, situated on a very exposed shoreline at the very southern end of Africa where waves of 6m are a regular occurrence.
Urban Transport & Airports & Regeneration & Infrastructure Stations Retail 14% 8% 30% Hotels, Leisure & Stadia Hospitals, 9% Schools & 20 WSP Annual Report 2007 Property Prisons 15% 56% Central & Local Government 12% Environment & Energy Corporate & Commercial 14% 18% Other 11% Traffic Planning for Development 13% 24 yrs 30 yrs 60 yrs 8% 20-29 yrs 3% 8% 4% 15-19 yrs 25-29 yrs 2 yrs 55-59 yrs 4% 18% 43% 7% 10-14 yrs 6% 50-54 yrs 7% 5-9 yrs 16% 30-34 yrs 16% 45-49 yrs 9% 40-44 yrs 12% 35-39 yrs 2-4 yrs 24% 15% Associated undertakings and Joint ventures Associated undertakings and Joint ventures Revenue and Adjusted Profit 2007 2006 Revenue Adjusted Profit Revenue Adjusted Profit Profit Margin Profit Margin m m % m m % Associated companies principally Multiconsult, AS Property 7.5 0.5 6.7% 5.9 0.4 6.8% Transport & Infrastructure 11.3 1.1 9.7% 9.1 0.8 8.8% Environment & Energy 2.1 0.3 14.3% 1.1 0.1 9.1% 20.9 1.9 9.1% 16.1 1.3 8.1% Joint ventures Prinipally Area 12 Joint Venture with Carillion Transport & Infrastructure 17.5 1.4 8.0% 16.6 1.1 6.6% 38.4 3.3 8.6% 32.7 2.4 7.3% We are well aware that it is vitally important that new staff, Multiconsult AS is a leading design consultant in Norway in which particularly those that join via acquisition, start to feel part of WSP as the Group has a 24.7% equity investment.
Once again the associated quickly as possible and therefore in 2007 there was a clear focus on companies have performed exceptionally well, increasing revenues by our integration activities.
The Groups share of revenue was 20.9m 2006: 16.1m and our share of profit before tax was 1.9m 2006: 1.3m.
After initial information and presentation by WSP to the newcomers we introduce a basic infrastructure covering IT networks and In the UK, our joint venture with Carillion plc for the Area 12 connection of staff to key global databases and communication Yorkshire Motorway Network Management Contract continues to channels.
Specific attention is then given to communicating our produce strong results.
Our 40% share of the joint venture Revenue vision and values in addition to make our strategy known to staff.
was 17.2m 2006: 16.6m and of profit before tax was 1.5m 2006: Re-branding of the new acquisitions is an essential part of the 1.1m.
integration process although timelines do differ.
The Highways Agency has extended the renewal date for Area 12 We communicate directly with staff via our new global internal to September 2009 and we will be re-bidding for this contract with magazine, Network, which focuses on people related issues as well as Carillion during 2008.
We also have a pipeline of other major UK projects and activities throughout WSP.
Also, where possible, we have road framework and term agreements for which we have bid or are involved newly acquired companies in Group activities such as the in the course of bidding in joint venture with others and we remain employee survey.
confident of our ability to win further large commissions.
We have ambitious growth plans and the recruitment of talented new staff is vital to our continued success.
This does however remain a our People challenge particularly in regions where there are skills shortages in specific disciplines combined with strong markets.
As a knowledge-based business the ability to attract, develop and retain high calibre staff remains one of our most important priorities.
In September 2007 we launched a major recruitment campaign across We therefore strive to ensure that we are regarded as the employer the UK, Sweden, Finland, South Africa and the Middle East.
The core of choice by both prospective and existing staff.
This remains a theme of the campaign was that of challenge as, in our view, WSPs challenge as we continue to work in a highly competitive sector.
staff like to be challenged and to use the whole range of their skills to meet and exceed those challenges.
Whilst the main purpose was At the end of 2007 WSP employed just over 9,400 staff compared to attract, and ultimately recruit, new staff we were also keen to to just over 7,000 a year ago.
This represents a significant increase raise awareness of engineering as a career choice and the chosen of 34% over the year and the highest rate of growth that we have theme was therefore designed to reinforce this message.
To date the experienced in the last five years.
As in previous years staff have campaign has proved to be highly successful with an increased interest in WSP which we anticipate will result in new recruits during 2008. joined us via a mixture of organic and acquisitive growth.
WSP Annual Report 2007 21 As part of the global recruitment campaign we also re-launched the careers area on our internet site and in particular added a search function that makes it easier for prospective recruits to find relevant vacancies.
With several hundred active vacancies at any one time the internet site continues to be a key resource and is complemented by a range of recruitment activities at a regional level.
We also continue to expand our graduate recruitment programme to ensure that we attract the best new talent into our business.
In all of our major regions we have therefore engaged in a variety of activities including careers fairs, links with universities and the use of assessment centres.
In 2007, WSP recruited around 200 new graduates worldwide.
Our vision and values are vital in keeping our organisation integrated, the staff empowered and loyal to WSP.
Overall, the level of understanding and sharing of our values continues to improve, albeit with differences according to region and number of years of service with the Group.
Our highly successful Taskforce initiative continues to expand with new Taskforces planned for Australia and Europe that will embrace recent acquisitions.
First established in 1994, the national Taskforces provide a unique opportunity for staff at the early stages in their careers to work together as a team on issues of strategic importance to the business.
Issues reviewed this year included sustainability, external branding and client feed-back amongst others.
In 2007 we distributed our Aiming Higher brochure to all staff and this reflected the ongoing progress of our strategy whilst also revisiting the importance of our values.
We plan to continue with efforts to improve the level of understanding and sharing values in 2008 with a particular emphasis on newly acquired companies.
Our annual employee survey continues to provide vital information on how WSP is performing as an employer and charts our progress from year to year in different regions.
This year the survey attracted the highest ever response rate of 81% and for the first time included staff based in Australia.
Also for the first time this year the survey introduced a new index, TRI M, which measured the level of WSPs overall employee commitment against global and regional benchmarks by asking staff five key questions to find out whether they consider WSP to be an attractive employer.
WSPs overall score places us in the top third of employers globally and all WSP regions scored at or above the world average.
Moving forward it is planned to utilise the TRI M index to serve as a guideline as to how successful we are in achieving our global goals.
The survey highlighted that career development issues continue to dominate across the Group.
In order to drive up job satisfaction and motivation globally, we have planned a range of activities for 2008 including continued expansion and improvement of competence development opportunities that are relevant to all staff, a new talent management programme for senior managers and individuals with high potential, and continued efforts to provide staff with opportunities to further their careers by moving internally in our business both within their region and overseas.
The ability to attract, develop and retain high calibre staff remains one of our most important priorities.
22 WSP Annual Report 2007 Training is of the highest importance to a professional organisation Financial Performance and during the year we introduced e-learning to increase both the efficiency and global reach of our training programme.
On average Other than detailed below, there have been no material changes our employees have 5 days of training annually.
to the International Financial Reporting Standards that have been adopted by the Group for the year and these are set out on pages 55 to 58 Corporate and Social Responsibility The Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which requires the disclosure of financial instruments CSR is critically important to WSP.
Not only is the Group an for the Groups financial position and performance together employer of more than 9,400 people from many different countries with the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial and cultures but we also advise, at the highest level, on the impact instruments and how the Group manages those risks.
of our clients business decisions on matters of sustainability, energy conservation, waste management and the protection of the The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to environment.
use estimates and assumptions that will affect the reported results.
Every care is taken to ensure that these estimates and assumptions Our approach to CSR is set out on pages 26 to 31 together with a are applied consistently and represent a fair reflection of the review of our progress during 2007. position based on the circumstances that exist at the time.
We are implementing a series of policies to ensure our business In the opinion of the directors the accounting policy that requires practices and our staff focus on the issues that we can influence, the most judgement is that concerning the recognition of revenue however our biggest impact will come from the advice we give our and the stage of completion of contracts in progress.
Monthly clients to improve their own performance in meeting their targets.
reviews are carried out across the world of major projects in progress and the Group adopts a conservative approach to the recognition of revenue and hence profits.
Awards in 2007 Revenue and profit During the year we have again received recognition for the excellence of our work and the contribution made by our staff Once again we have met our principal strategic financial targets which only enhances our global reputation.
for the year with revenue, including our share of joint venture and associated undertakings, increasing by 28.5% to 577.4m 2006: The Royal Bank of Scotlands World Headquarters, for which the 449.4m.
Included in this figure is revenue from acquisitions Group provided multi-disciplined services, has won numerous completed during the year of 31.3m which, when excluded, gives awards during the year.
Princess Hay Shopping Centre Exeter was underlying organic growth of 21.5%.
Statutory revenue grew from a winner of The British Council of Shopping Centres Gold Award 416.7m to 539.0m, an increase of 29.3%.
in 2007, where WSP provided multidiscipline advice to this retail redevelopment scheme within Exeter city centre.
Adjusted profit has increased by 43.0%, to 43.9m 2006: 30.7m and overall adjusted profit margins have increased from 6.8% to We completed the design and construction of the award winning 7.6% well ahead of our strategic target of a 0.5% increase per 4.3 MW bio-gas to energy project at a Petro SA refinery in Mossel annum.
Profit before interest and tax grew 39% from 29.6m to Bay, South Africa.
This type of ground breaking scheme, to convert 41.2m.
waste into electricity whilst at the same time producing carbon credits, is critical to a country where power generation is in short net finance costs supply.
We are also donating a portion of the carbon credit revenue to a poverty alleviation trust to support sustainable farming in the We have maintained tight control on our working capital finance local community.
costs despite funding a substantial increase in revenue and having paid 43.2m in the latter part of the year as consideration for In the United States we have received numerous awards for acquisitions, net of cash acquired.
the Hearst Building in New York City where we provided both structural and building services, including the Best Sustainable Net finance costs total 3.8m 2006: 3.2m including the net Building Award and the Diamond Award for Engineering Excellence finance cost on retirement benefit liabilities of 0.5m 2006: 0.6m.
from the American Council of Engineering Companies.
Lincolne Scott achieved a 6 Green Star certification, representing Taxation world leadership for the Green Building Council of Australia for the Melbourne Convention Centre.
This is the first non-office building The tax charge for the year was 10.6m compared to 7.2m certified in the region.
The adjusted tax charge, including tax related to joint venture and associated undertakings and excluding the impact of business combination intangibles amortisation amounts to 11.7m 2006: 7.9m, which represents an effective corporate tax rate on adjusted profit of 29.2% 2006: 28.7% which is broadly flat year on year.
WSP Annual Report 2007 23 The tax charge reflects the geographic spread of taxable profits Contract claims arising in both high and low tax jurisdictions as well as the benefits of tax relief on such items as research and development expenditure.
There is a possibility of contract claims as a consequence of disputes Full details of how the tax charge is calculated may be found in note 6 or shortcomings in project delivery that could impact upon the to the financial statements.
It is embedded in our culture that we develop client relationships and strive to ensure client satisfaction.
earnings per share However, we recognise that claims are possible, and that we cannot Once again, basic and diluted earnings per share have increased eliminate these risks.
In the event that claims arise, we will aim significantly to 43.0p and 42.3p respectively when compared to the to defend them, however it is our policy to establish appropriate comparable figures of 31.4p and 30.4p in 2006. reserves wherever we recognise a legal or constructive obligation.
In common with others operating in our sector we have established professional indemnity insurance policies that are intended to protect Dividends against significant losses.
We have an established dividend policy that determines the rate of dividend to the growth in earnings whilst recognising the cash flow Pensions demands of the business.
The majority of the Groups worldwide employees are in defined In October, the Company paid an increased interim dividend of 4p contribution schemes.
However in the UK there are a number 2006: 3p and with the excellent financial performance of the Group of defined benefit schemes taken over by the Group following during 2007 the directors believe that it is appropriate to once again acquisitions, all of which are closed to new members.
substantially increase the proposed final dividend to 8p 2006: 6p giving a full year dividend of 12p 2006: 9p representing an increase In Sweden, a proportion of the multi-employer Government PRI for the year of 33%.
The final dividend will be payable in May 2008.
Scheme is treated as an unfunded defined benefit scheme and the Group carries a proportion of its staffs pension liabilities on its The proposed total dividend for the year of 12.0p is covered 3.6 balance sheet.
times by the 2007 profit after tax.
Liabilities of 31.6m 2006: 32.6m relating to the defined benefit pension schemes, including the Swedish PRI Scheme, have been Cash flow recognised in full.
In accordance with IAS 19, the charge to the income statement in the year for current and past service costs WSP is a strong generator of cash from trading activities which amounted to 2.7m 2006: 2.8m and the net finance cost on amounted to 47.4m 2006: 34.8m and despite the need to finance pension liabilities was 0.5m 2006: 0.6m.
significant revenue growth, as well as both initial and deferred consideration on acquisitions, net debt only increased to 61.0m Current service costs of 2.7m 2006: 2.7m reflect the increase in 2006: 34.9m.
the pension obligation that results from employee service in the year.
The return on plan assets and interest costs are based on actuarial assumptions about the expected financial performance of the funds.
2007 2006 m m Actuarial gains of 3.1m 2006: 0.1m, which are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, comprise actuarial operating cash flow 47.4 34.8 accounting adjustments for two separate components.
Experience Capital expenditure net 13.9 9.8 gains of 3.0m are the differences between previous actuarial Bank & finance lease interest 3.8 3.2 assumptions and what has actually occurred, and the second Tax 6.1 8.2 component which amounts to a loss of 6.1m takes account of the Currency & other movements 0.5 - impact of annual changes in actuarial assumptions.
Free cash flow 23.1 13.6 Dividends 6.2 4.3 Capital structure Share issues 0.2 1.2 Aquisitions of subsidaries As at 31 December 2007, the Company had issued 62.7 million 2006: net of cash acquired 43.2 13.2 61.9 million fully paid ordinary shares.
26.1 2.7 Net debt at 1 January 34.9 32.2 At 31 December 2007, the Groups net shareholders equity net Debt at 31 December 61.0 34.9 amounted to 124.5m 2006: 94.1m, and net debt was 61.0m 2006: 34.9m.
The capital structure of the Group provides flexibility and capacity with which to deliver the growth anticipated in the Strategic Plan.
The Group has committed bank loan facilities in excess of 110m and is therefore well positioned to finance the working capital required to meet our organic growth plan and take advantage of acquisitions as and when they become available.
24 WSP Annual Report 2007 Regionally, the development of our Property division has been closely aligned to meeting the diverse requirements of our clients who increasingly need the services of a large, multi-skilled consultant with global reach.
Financial instruments and foreign exchange outlook Our policy is to manage centrally the Groups liquidity, funding The diversity of the Group, extended over the last eight years across and exposure to foreign currency risk in a manner which ensures many different regions, sectors and skills, enables WSP to respond straightforward administration, the minimisation of risk and proactively to changing economic circumstances.
At any time, certain markets will strengthen and others will weaken Other than derivatives, the financial instruments used by the but the strategy of the Group is designed to absorb such changes and Group comprise internal cash resources, borrowings, and accounts minimise the short term effects both financially and operationally.
receivable and payable arising from normal trading activities.
Committed banking facilities are negotiated to provided working The Group is in good shape to handle present market conditions.
Our capital and acquisition finance to meet the current and future order book is at a record level of 940m, with 67% already secured for requirements of the Group.
We have always acquired businesses at sensible ratings and, as we have substantial agreed banking facilities, we remain Most of our trading activity is in the currencies relevant to the local alert for further acquisition opportunities.
subsidiary, thus matching the currency with its cost base.
Where contracts are awarded in non-local currency the Group looks to We are confident that we will continue to deliver results in line with mitigate material foreign exchange risks having regard to all the our Strategic Plan over the years ahead.
We partially mitigate the effect of currency fluctuations on these investments using the natural hedge created by US Dollar and Swedish Kronor loans.
We have not considered it necessary to hedge our investments in other overseas subsidiaries but the matter is kept under review.
In addition to these foreign exchange exposures the Group, by virtue of its borrowings in US Dollars and Swedish Kronor, is subject to non-sterling interest rate risk.
We continually review our Christopher Cole Malcolm Paul exposure to floating interest rates and assess the cost versus the Chief Executive Group Finance Director benefit of alternative instruments available to minimise interest rate risks.
At the present time our exposure to US Dollar and Swedish Kronor interest rates remains unhedged.
A summary of the Groups borrowings, financial risks and use of derivatives is set out in note 25 to the financial statements on page 82.
