Babcock International Group PLC 03 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Introduction Babcock International Group PLC is a provider of engineering based support services operating extensively in the United Kingdom, Africa and North America.
We operate in complex markets with good long-term prospects.
Typically we focus upon markets that ideally have k the twin characteristics of longevity Each of our businesses coupled with long-term infrastructure investment needs.
is highly rated in its Our strengths are in our project respective market and is management expertise and engineering skill base.
We focus on adding value at the therefore well placed to operational level working alongside our take a substantial share of customers to manage their mission-critical infrastructure and assets.
the growth opportunities We are continuing to extend a available to it.
strong track record of performance since initiating our strategy to transform Babcock into a support services business.
Above left to right : Peter Rogers Group Chief Executive Bill Tame Group Finance Director Continuing revenue versus Group profit before taxation m 1,200 60 1,000 50 800 40 600 30 400 20 200 10 0 0 Year 02 03 04 05 06 07 n Continuing revenue m Group profit before taxation m Babcock International Group PLC 04 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued In terms of customers, within the United At Babcock we regard the safe delivery Business prole Kingdom this strategy translates into of complex programmes and the health working with both major owners of of our workforce, often in potentially Babcock International Group PLC is government assets for example the hazardous environments, as absolute a successful FTSE 250 listed support Ministry of Defence and Network Rail priorities which benefit our staff, services business.
During the past five and private sector companies that have customers and our shareholders which years the business has been transformed inherited public sector infrastructure, is covered in greater detail further in from an engineering conglomerate with such as National Grid and BAA.
a long heritage to providing support well versed with working alongside large, In the United Kingdom and services consistent with our culture, complex customer organisations to help internationally, Babcock understands experience and knowledge base.
them better understand the challenges the importance of building links with the We meet our customers needs by they face and tailor a solution to meet local communities in which we operate.
leveraging our engineering skills base their specic needs.
Due to our experience of operating and project management expertise.
In Africa, our business has a network in relatively remote areas our staff We focus on adding value at the of facilities that supplies and supports participate in local activities and often operational level working alongside the customers of Volvo construction contribute to the local community.
our customers to manage their equipment, whilst the engineering Our operational activities are sensitive mission-critical infrastructure and assets.
division works with the national electricity to the local supply chain and seek The breadth of assets that we support and transmission company, Eskom, to engage it wherever practical.
and manage for our customers range to support and re-commission its power Our businesses often sponsor local sports from those which are xed, such as generation and transmission infrastructure and participate in support of charitable buildings, to the mobile, such as to serve the nations energy needs.
We are forward looking and have nuclear submarines.
We believe customers choose a number of apprentice and graduate Babcock is focused with regard to to work with Babcock because of three programmes aimed at offering long-term, the markets we choose to operate in key differentiators: our extensive skill higher value employment opportunities and the customers we seek to work with.
base and engineering reputation, that benefit the local economy and meet We address markets that ideally have our recognition of the primacy of business needs.
the twin characteristics of longevity health and safety awareness and our Babcock International Group is and long-term infrastructure investment integration into the communities in organised into five core business segments needs.
The public sector and elements which we operate.
covering the breadth of our commercial of the private sector both own and Our skill base covers a wide breadth activities in the UK and internationally: maintain large, complex infrastructure of engineering disciplines.
On a day-to-day Defence, Technical, Engineering and that requires support, maintenance and basis our staff are engaged with challenges Plant Services, Networks and Rail.
Often these programmes are where knowledge of aerospace, critical to the delivery of services where the built infrastructure, maritime, nuclear, reputation of Babcock as a partner who is power transmission, telecommunications trusted to deliver come to the fore.
and transportation engineering is critical to the successful delivery of our customers operations.
Babcock International Group PLC 05 Annual report and accounts 2007 The successful execution of our strategic Reconciliation to statutory operating profit transformation that we embarked upon Revenue Operating profit Net margin Growth some six years ago has focused upon Operating growing our support services business Revenue profit by both organic means and selective 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2007 m m m m % % %% acquisitions.
Within our existing portfolio of contracts we have thus far been Total statutory 988.3 836.7 62.8 46.6 6.4 5.6 18 35 successful in driving greater operational Amortisation of efficiencies and delivering significant acquired intangibles 6.1 3.1 cost savings to our customers.
In measuring our performance Exceptional items 0.6 0.2 we adopt a number of Key Performance Total underlying 988.3 836.7 68.3 49.9 6.9 6.0 18 37 Indicators KPIs across the business.
With the exception of Health and Segmental analysis Safety and Environment these KPIs are financial in nature: Operating Return Operating profit on Revenue ORR, revenue growth, Revenue Return on revenue Return On Invested Capital ROIC, 2007 2006 Growth 2007 2006 Growth m m % m m % Operating Cash Flow OCF conversion rate, net debt EBITDA, interest cover, Defence Services 340.6 271.7 25 29.9 21.8 37 gearing and order book.
These KPIs 8.8% 8.0% are discussed in greater detail in the financial review.
Technical Services 178.4 130.5 37 16.1 9.0 78 Unless otherwise indicated, the terms 9.0% 6.9% operating margin, margins, operating Engineering and Plant Services 165.6 144.2 15 13.3 9.7 37 profit and earnings below refer 8.0% 6.7% to the said items before charges for exceptional items and amortisation Networks 74.9 73.0 3 6.8 6.4 6 of acquired intangibles.
k Key KPIs for business segments Featured in the reviews of segmental performance over the following pages are the following Key Performance Indicators: Operating Return on Revenue ORR Operating Return on Revenue is dened as operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Revenue growth Revenue growth is dened as the increase in the companys continuing revenue when compared to that of the previous year.
Babcock International Group PLC 06 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued Operating return on revenue % Defence Services Market overview Defence Services provides facilities 2006 07 8.8 management, equipment support 2005 06 8.0 and training expertise to the British Armed Forces.
2004 05 6.9 Defence Services end-customers are the three armed services the Royal Navy, Revenue growth % British Army and RAF.
Within the Ministry of Defence, the main day-to-day business is conducted with Defence Estates, 2006 07 25 Defence Equipment & Support formerly the Defence Logistics Organisation and 2005 06 11 Defence Procurement Agency and the Air Command formerly the RAF Personnel 2004 05 43 & Training Command.
Review of operations Defence Services has had an excellent year.
New contracts were signed for the second tranche of Single Living Accommodation Modernisation or SLAM a scheme central to the Ministry of Defence to improve recruitment and retention of service personnel.
Additionally, Babcock secured its position in future support of the current eet of Hawk jet trainer aircraft through the commencement of an Integrated Operational Support IOS contract led by BAE Systems.
As a consequence of the IOS arrangements, Babcock is engaged in negotiations with BAE Systems as to the in-service support solution for the successor Hawk 128 aircraft.
2006 07 saw the first full year in the operation of the Regional Prime East contract for Defence Estates after mobilisation.
The contract is one of five in the United Kingdom where industry is responsible for maintaining existing infrastructure.
Babcock is the only supplier to be engaged in two of the five regional prime contracts.
Defence Services includes the Airports division of Alstec acquired during the year.
Babcock International Group PLC 07 Annual report and accounts 2007 I can sleep easier vh Key customers: Maintaining accommodation facilities for the Royal Navy Armed Services British Army The Group provides through life support for an important enabler for our customer, the Ministry RAF of Defence, that of recruitment and retention.
Ministry of Defence As part of the Departments effort to improve Defence Estates the single living accommodation provided to the soldiers, sailors and airmen of the three BAA plc armed forces, Babcock has recently commenced the second phase of the programme known as SLAM, supporting an additional 7,000 modern bed spaces beyond the 14,000 put in place since the programme started in 2003.
Babcock International Group PLC 08 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued I have peace of mind hk Key customers: The acquisition of Alstec adds a civil nuclear support Royal Navy and decommissioning capability to our offering Defence Equipment & Support organisation Babcock is growing its capabilities to provide expert engineering support to the challenges of maintaining Aircraft Carrier Alliance the nuclear power generation infrastructure of the Various commercial companies in the oil United Kingdom and assist in meeting the emerging & gas market challenge of nuclear decommissioning.
Successful Major nuclear industry organisations decommissioning will act as an enabler to provide additional confidence for the UK Government to Nuclear Decommissioning Authority proceed with building new reactors which will help maintain diversity and security of supply of power for the next generation.
Babcock International Group PLC 09 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating return on revenue % Technical Services Market overview Technical services supports the activities 2006 07 9.0 of customers in the marine, defence, 2005 06 6.9 nuclear, oil & gas, and supply chain service markets.
2004 05 9.0 Technical services customers include the Royal Navy, the Defence Equipment Revenue growth % & Support organisation formerly the Defence Logistics Organisation and Defence Procurement Agency, Aircraft 2006 07 37 Carrier Alliance, various commercial companies in the oil & gas market, the 18 2005 06 Nuclear Decommissioning Agency and major nuclear industry organisations.
12 2004 05 Note: Negative revenue growth in 2004 05 and Review of operations 2005 06 for Technical Services was driven as the Technical Services had an outstanding consequence of a contraction in warship refit activity for the Royal Navy.
2006 07 with sales increasing by 37% and operating profit by 78%.
In the defence eld the surface ship support alliance arrangements have matured, reaching an agreed position on the need to protect core skills at Rosyth in preparation for the future aircraft carrier CVF programme.
As a consequence Rosyth, uniquely amongst the UK surface ship ret yards, will be operating a twin stream of activity.
The Design & Technology team have been busy both in the further design of the aircraft carriers as well as, increasingly, a body of commercial projects in oil & gas accounting for some 60% of revenues.
2006 07 was also the first year of Alstecs operations in the civil nuclear support market.
Babcock sees this as an important future market.
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority have identied the entire UK requirement for support to be worth in excess of 2 billion per annum over a timeframe measured in decades.
Babcock International Group PLC 10 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued Operating return on revenue % Engineering and Plant Services 2006 07 8.0 Market overview The Engineering and Plant Services 2005 06 6.7 segment comprises our international operations in Africa and the United States.
2004 05 4.3 In South Africa the Plant Services Revenue growth % division supplies Volvo construction equipment to a variety of customers in the construction, resource extraction and energy markets.
The Engineering 2006 07 15 division works with the South African power utility, Eskom, in support of 2005 06 28 power generation and transmission 2004 05 30 infrastructure.
In North America Babcock provides specialist pipeline assessment services and works with a number of significant oil & gas companies.
Review of operations Engineering and plant continued its run of strong performance during the past year enjoying another record year of growth.
Commodity prices and the award of 2010 soccer world cup to South Africa has stimulated investment in civil infrastructure.
This investment is driving demand for high quality construction and resource extraction and movement equipment for which our Volvo franchise remains well placed.
Additionally, the South African government recognise fully the challenge of delivering electricity in sufficient quantities to where its needed.
Our recently acquired powerlines business has proven to be a timely decision with its order book already having quadrupled since purchase.
Babcock International Group PLC 11 Annual report and accounts 2007 I have access to energy vh Key customers: Supporting Eskoms investment in African power Volvo generation and transmission A variety of customers in the construction, Babcock is growing its capabilities to assist Eskom resource extraction and energy markets in improving its electricity generation capacity and ensuring the electricity transmission infrastructure Eskom can deliver the power to the communities where A number of significant oil & gas companies it is needed.
Eskom is planning to add some 5000 Mw by 2009 from return-to-service projects where Babcock is playing its part in supporting both these projects and via its recent acquisition of ABB Powerlines division, improving the high-voltage transmission infrastructure.
Babcock International Group PLC 12 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued I can rely on the network hk Key customers: Joint venture with AMEC and Mott MacDonald National Grid to renew power lines in the West Scottish Power Babcock is working with its partners to deliver a major commitment by National Grid to improve EDF Energy Networks the quality of its transmission infrastructure National Grid Wireless which was originally constructed in the 1960s, Arqiva providing electricity to homes, businesses and organisations nationally.
The project lasting initially some five years will deliver the capital works programme for overhead transmission lines and cable works in the West of England and throughout Wales.
In addition Babcock Networks has secured a contract with EDF Energy Networks for the delivery of overhead transmission line works in the East of England, the South East and London.
Babcock International Group PLC 13 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating return on revenue % Networks Market overview Babcock Networks, is a significant 2006 07 9.1 player in the high voltage electricity 2005 06 8.6 transmission, mobile telecommunications and digital television infrastructure in 2004 05 6.4 the United Kingdom.
Networks carries out its power Revenue growth % transmission activities for amongst others, National Grid, Scottish Power and EDF.
Networks provides telecommunications 3 2006 07 services for several of the leading mobile telephony service providers in the United 2005 06 28 Kingdom.
Networks digital switch-over activity is conducted on behalf of National Grid Wireless and Arqiva.
Note: Networks was acquired in June 2004. Review of operations Networks has had a transformational year which is expected to bring considerable benets in the current financial year.
The decision of National Grid to move towards two alliance contracts to manage the UK high voltage distribution infrastructure has seen Networks come together successfully with AMEC and Mott MacDonald Limited to win a five year, 100 million per annum contract to commence the urgent work of improving the UK distribution grid.
Beyond the alliance, Networks has won further business in its own right to support EDF Energy Solutions in the South East of England.
This five year contract is worth circa.
The Telecommunications business has focused on the opportunities related to the impending switch-over of the TV broadcast signal from analogue to digital as the expansion of the 3G mobile telecoms infrastructure remains slow.
Babcock International Group PLC 14 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued Operating return on revenue % Rail Market overview Babcocks rail business, First Engineering, 2006 07 4.1 is a United Kingdom focused railway 2005 06 4.0 infrastructure support business.
The principal customer of Rail is 2004 05 5.0 Network Rail.
However Babcock also provides significant engineering support Revenue growth % to Transport Scotland.
Review of operations 2006 07 5 Rail has had commercial successes over the past year whilst starting a restructuring 2005 06 3 programme to position itself strongly for the future.
The business won two signalling Note: Rail was acquired in June 2004. framework contracts valued at up to 10 million each per annum and lasting five years.
In addition the business secured a significant capacity enhancement project in Trent valley worth some 25 million for Network Rail.
Network Rail is currently intending to reduce its supplier base for elements of track renewals this summer from six key suppliers to four.
The consolidation will not affect the high output activity performed by Babcock in conjunction with its partner Swietelsky and we remain confident that the Rail business is positioned to pursue higher value activities effectively.
Babcock International Group PLC 15 Annual report and accounts 2007 I can get there sooner vh Key customers: Extending the UKs rail network in the Trent Valley Network Rail and Stirling-Alloa in Scotland Transport Scotland Babcock is working to upgrade the quality of rail infrastructure in support of Network Rail and Transport Scotland to assist the train operators in moving passengers safely and quickly around the United Kingdom.
In the Trent Valley we are working to add additional lines of track and infrastructure whilst in Stirling Alloa the project involves reopening some 20km of railway track to re-establish passenger services and movement of goods reconnecting communities and commerce.
Babcock International Group PLC 16 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued Key events 2006 Business strategy 2001 Acquisition of Alstec Babcock continues to develop, implement Board initiates strategic transformation Acquisition of ABB Powerlines and rene a consistent strategy to deliver of Babcock into a support services long term performance for its shareholders.
Networks win National Grid Alliance focused business At the core of the strategy has opportunity been the objective to transform Babcock Acquisition of Hunting Defence from an engineering conglomerate into Babcock Defence Services 2007 a support services business operating BIS awarded second phase of in technically demanding, higher value 2002 SLAM programme environments, providing strong project Awarded WSMI contract for management skills and engineering Purchase of stake in International HMNB Clyde Faslane expertise across a range of challenging Nuclear Solutions PLC environments.
Acquisition of SGI The illustration below shows key Babcock Infrastructure Services Our approach to acquisitions has been to milestones in the implementation of BIS awarded SLAM Single Living identify the markets and customers with our strategy.
Accommodation contract whom Babcock would wish to operate which are consistent with our culture Babcock re-categorised as a support and capabilities.
Our acquisition activity service business on the London Stock has been targeted to meet a gap in Exchange a clearly dened market.
For example, the Peterhouse Group acquisition in 2003 2004 gave Babcock access to the rail and Babcock Defence Services awarded telecommunications power transmission RAF Valley hawk support contract markets whilst the 2006 acquisition of Alstec enabled Babcock to build a Completed divestment of the position in the emerging market for civil materials handling business nuclear decommissioning and support.
Building on this solid foundation 2004 the Babcock strategy will continue to Acquisition of Peterhouse Group focus upon identication and successful First Engineering and EVE participation in markets possessing investment programmes which t with BIS awarded Southwest Regional our understanding of the technical Prime contract challenges, appreciation of the market dynamics and consistency with our style 2005 of operations.
BIS awarded East Regional Prime contract only company to be involved in two of the five regional prime contracts BNS contract at HMNB Clyde extended early due to performance First Engineering win high output system 3 track renewal contract Babcock International Group PLC 17 Annual report and accounts 2007 Costs incurred in respect of Rail Objectives of the business Financial review restructuring, fully provided for in the year, were part of a programme The over-arching objective of Babcock is Group Income Statement of cost reductions commenced to generate value in a sustainable manner Group Revenue showed substantial during the year and which is expected for the benefit of our shareholders and growth over 2005 06, increasing by to be completed during 2007 08. wider stakeholders.
In our strategic planning 18% to 988 million driven by a Further discussion of discontinued costs we have identied eight indicators which combination of new contract wins and can be found at note 33 on page 77. are essential in achieving this goal: growth from existing contracts organic Pension gains arose from a pension growth and from businesses acquired 1 To be one of the top three competitors liability management project in respect during the year.
Organic growth in the marketplaces which we identify.
of both deferred and pensioner member contributed 50 million whilst Revenue In the event of identifying a desirable liabilities and which is expected to show accruing from the acquisition of Alstec marketplace where we are not amongst further gains in 2007 08.
The financial and the ABB Powerlines businesses the lead players the business has to have position of the Groups pension schemes added 102 million.
a robust plan to achieve a significant is discussed further below.
The Group operating margin, which position within three years.
Finance costs net of finance improved to 6.9% 2006: 6.0% benefited income increased from 5.2 million 2 To achieve sustainable growth in from enhanced contract profitability in to 6.2 million following the increase operating profit.
all business segments with the exception in bank debt taken on to finance the of Rail where margins were close to 3 To identify our preferred customers acquisition of Alstec and ABB Powerlines.
Margin gains which tend to be with public or regulated Further discussion of the Groups funding in Defence Services and Engineering private sector and blue chip companies.
and Plant arising from efficiency gains The charge to income tax, before 4 To be customer focussed and importantly on existing contract operations were adjusting for tax on exceptional items to be able to work collaboratively in further enhanced by the Alstec and and amortisation of acquired intangibles, partnership with these customers.
Operating was 12.6 million 2006: 9.2 million our operations we place a premium on profit improved by 37% to 68.3 million and represented an effective rate of tax strong collaborative working skills which of which 9.5 million was attributable on profit before tax of 20% 2006: 21%.
we deploy to meet customer needs.
to acquisitions in the year.
However, this included a one-off gain There were a number of exceptional 5 To focus on projects containing a relating to prior years of 1.0 million, items in the year totalling 0.4 million high technical content and important to absent which the rate would have been 2006: 2.7 million which comprised: supporting the customers own operations.
The Group benets from lower tax million Our portfolio of skills are engineering rates in overseas jurisdictions allowing based and because of this we seek Restructuring costs in Rail 2.0 the application of an effective rate of tax projects which are consistent with on its profit before tax which is lower than Pension gains 3.2 our capabilities.
Additionally, we focus the standard rate of UK corporation tax.
on projects which are mission-critical to Bid Defence costs 0.6 The effective tax rate is calculated as the the customer as we see these as having total charge to income tax as a proportion Operating exceptionals 0.6 an intrinsic value and match with our of the Groups profit before tax before Legacy issues 1.0 experience and abilities.
exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles and is expected to Total exceptionals 0.4 6 To seek long-term commercial be sustainable at its current level for the arrangements which balance risk financial year to 31 March 2008. and reward sensibly.
profit for the year from continuing 7 To maintain continual improvement in operations was 49.9 million, up from health and safety across our operations and: 35.4 million in 2005 06 and representing a year on year increase of 41%.
This yielded 8 To operate with respect for the an increase in basic earnings per share from environment.
continuing operations to 23.35 pence 2006: 17.18 pence.
Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue ORR % KPI: KPI: Revenue growth is defined as the increase in the Operating Return on Revenue ORR is defined as companys continuing revenue when compared operating profit before amortisation of acquired to that of the previous year.
intangibles and exceptional items expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Note: 2004 05 includes the effect of the acquisition of Peterhouse Group in June 2004.
2006 07 18 2006 07 6.9 2005 06 15 2005 06 6.0 2004 05 68 2004 05 5.7 Babcock International Group PLC 18 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued Diluted earnings per share were Historically the group has nanced Using cash contributions from both 22.66 pence against 16.78 pence in its operations and transactions through the group and employees, such pension the previous year, an increase of 35%.
a combination of retained earnings, schemes invest in a variety of financial Based upon the strong increase in new equity and bank borrowings.
It is instruments with the objective of earnings, the Board has recommended a the groups policy to ensure that it has providing sufficient financial resources total dividend for the year of 8.05 pence sufficient financial resources to support to pay pensions as they fall due, over the per share, up 34% on 2005 06, and at the business and to leave a comfortable long term.
These financial instruments 2.9 times covered, is in line with the margin between those facilities and are valued at the balance sheet date groups stated policy of achieving a ratio likely peak borrowings during the year.
by reference to their market value, of earnings to dividend dividend cover Interest rate risk is managed by for instance the quoted value of shares of between 2.5 and 3 times.
the use of a mixture of xed and oating on a recognised stock exchange, rate debt and interest rate swaps, and compared to the value of pension Liquidity which are regularly reviewed to ensure liabilities as assessed by the pension Bank and other borrowings, net of cash an appropriate mix is maintained.
schemes and groups actuaries to derive balances net debt, totalled 73.7 million, The groups main exposures to a surplus or deficit of assets over liabilities.
up from 38.2 million at the end of foreign currency movements remain its At 31 March 2007 the groups combined 2005 06.
During the year the group businesses in South Africa where exposure pension schemes showed a net surplus acquired the shares of Alstec Group to both translation and transaction rate of 53.1 million of assets over liabilities, Limited and the business and assets of movements exists.
The groups policy on assets valued at 1.2 billion.
ABB Powerlines for a total consideration is not to cover the exposure arising on The assessed value of liabilities is critically of 52.0 million for which existing translation of the South African business dependent on a number of assumptions.
bank borrowing facilities were used.
into the groups base currency, Sterling, These include the estimated longevity Gearing see chart below increased from by way of derivatives but to use, where of the scheme members, bond yield, 22% to 36% and the key ratio of earnings possible, local borrowings to fund its the expected return on assets and future before interest, depreciation and operations.
All material exposure arising salary and pension increases.
The fair amortisation as a multiple of net from trading in currencies other than the value approach thus used in accounting debt was 1.0 2006: 0.7 comfortably business base currency is covered by the for pension schemes is a snapshot of within the groups internal guidelines.
use of forward currency cover contracts.
values assessed at a particular point in At 31 March 2007, the group had access Treasury transactions are carried out with time for what is essentially a long term to a five year revolving credit facility of prime-rated counter-parties including any structure and can yield volatile results, 140.0 million and a similar eighteen investment of cash or cash equivalents.
depending on market conditions, both for month facility of 50.0 million, of which The groups income is mainly from the balance sheet and income statement.
91.0 million had been drawn on these government or government-backed In 2006 07 the amounts charged or two facilities.
In addition, the group institutions or blue-chip corporates.
credited to the income statement in had 17.5 million of overdraft facility.
Where this is not the case, credit checks respect of pensions were as follows: are performed and where necessary, 2007 2006 m m Treasury policies security is requested and as such customer The groups treasury policies, which have credit risk is considered to be low.
Service cost 15.0 12.7 been approved by the Board, cover all Expected return significant areas of treasury activity Pensions on plan assets 68.5 59.6 including foreign exchange, interest The group has a number of dened rates, liquidity and credit risk and it benefit pension schemes with long Interest on obligations 51.6 49.7 is the responsibility of the Treasury term commitments to pay pensions 16.9 9.9 Committee, comprising the Groups to past and present employees based Chief Executive, Finance Director and on a pre-determined formula of length Net credit charge Financial Controller, to ensure that of service and pensionable pay.
to operating profit these policies are adhered to.
before exceptionals 1.9 2.8 Net debt EBITDA % Gearing ratio % KPI: KPI: Net debt EBITDA is calculated as net debt divided Gearing ratio measures the extent to which a company by Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation is funded by debt.
Calculated as net debt divided by and Amortisation.
2006 07 1.0 2006 07 36 2005 06 0.7 2005 06 22 2004 05 1.2 2004 05 56 Babcock International Group PLC 19 Annual report and accounts 2007 Group Cash Flow Health and Safety Management Health and Safety The group generated 60.2 million Our Corporate Safety Steering Group of cash from operations 2006: the CSSG has been given responsibility Our Commitment 54.1 million on statutory operating by the Board for the strategic overview We have always regarded the safety profit of 62.8 million, representing of Health and Safety matters.
The CSSG of our employees and those working a conversion rate of operating profit also considers environmental matters.
along side them as a key management to cash of 96% 2006: 116%.
We target It facilitates cross-business discussion of obligation, and safety performance a conversion rate over the medium health and safety management and is is considered when making bonus term of 80% allowing for the inevitable responsible for creating the conditions payments.
We have in place the necessary lumpiness of cash receipts and payments that allow the group Health and Safety policies and procedures to comply involved in large scale, long term Policy to be achieved, keeping workplace with applicable laws and good practice, contracts which can materially distort arrangements relating to heath and safety and have a safety management structure, cash generation at any given point.
under review, considering new legislation described below, that is necessary to We acquired two businesses in the and its impact on the group: reviewing achieve our legal obligations.
Our health year Alstec in the UK and ABB Powerlines serious incidents and their implications, and safety record is, we believe, in South Africa for a net consideration and the implementation of overall consistent with industry norms.
of 52.0 million as well as paying and specic Health and Safety policies.
In prior years we have achieved 0.5 million deferred consideration in It meets three or four times a year and year-on-year reductions in the number respect of acquisitions from prior years.
is made up of senior health and safety of, as well as the rate of Health & Safety In addition, we acquired 24.5% of representatives from the divisions.
During 2006 07 the equity in International Nuclear The group Chief Executive chairs the number of incidents increased and Solutions PLC INS for 9.7 million.
the CSSGs meetings, and Divisional therefore to address this, we embarked After accounting for these investments Managing Directors attend from time upon an ongoing programme designed and inter alia, income tax of 7.7 million, to time.
Monthly reports on health, to bring about a qualitative change net interest payments of 5.5 million, safety and environmental performance in our approach to Health and Safety.
dividends totalling 14.0 million and are reviewed by the groups Executive We now aim to build on compliance capital expenditure of 7.0 million, Committee.
The Board formally reviews and incremental improvements in safety the groups net cash outow in the performance twice a year, but sees performance, by making part of our year was 33.5 million.
monthly divisional management management and employee culture the The improving margin combined reports that include sections on health, belief and determination that it is possible with good management of cash ow safety and environmental matters.
for all our employees, and anyone else have yielded an improvement in Return Each business has Health and Safety for whom we are responsible, to go home on Invested Capital and interest cover procedures appropriate to its operations, safe and well at the end of each day.
the three year track record of which is the local environment and its customer We are making a significant illustrated below.
Appropriate training is provided investment in terms of both time for personnel and non-employees, and money towards this objective, where relevant.
complementing it with specic health Divisions have specialist Health and safety behavioural programmes and Safety teams or advisers reporting targeted at supervisors and operational to Divisional Managing Directors.
Operating Cash Flow OCF Interest cover % Return on Invested Capital ROIC % conversion rate % KPI: KPI: KPI: Operating Cash Flow OCF conversion rate is defined Return on Invested Capital ROIC is defined as Interest cover is a measure of the adequacy of the as cash generated by operations as a percentage of net income divided by total capital.
companys profits relative to interest payments on operating profit post exceptionals.
Profit before interest, tax and amortisation, divided by net interest payable.
2006 07 10.9 2006 07 96 2006 07 15.4 2005 06 119 2005 06 12.3 2005 06 9.6 2004 05 126 2004 05 10.9 2004 05 6.9 Babcock International Group PLC 20 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued The Groups businesses have, between The environment Identication and them, won many awards and customer evaluation of risks and recognition for their Health and Safety We aim to achieve the highest standards management.
New awards received during control objectives in environmental management and seek the year are summarised below: accreditation to relevant standards where Of importance to Babcock is the appropriate.
In 2006, our Alstec business won a RoSPA identication, monitoring, management As a support services provider, many Gold Award, for the third consecutive and minimisation of risks to the business of our operations are carried out on year and a British Safety Council Award and our staff.
customer sites where the customer is for the eleventh consecutive year.
The Board has the primary responsible for environmental matters.
During the year it completed 450,000 responsibility for monitoring the major Some customers ask us to take on man-hours of work at Sizewell, business risks facing the group and for environmental management, though they Dungeness and Hinckley Point power developing appropriate policies to manage set the standards, budgets and timescales stations with no reportable incidents in those risks.
The group has a Group Risk for us.
respect of any employee or agency Manager who reports to the Group Finance On those sites that we do own and worker under its control.
500,000 man Director and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
control, such as Rosyth, we have made hours were worked at the Whetstone The Group Risk Manager oversees a group significant advances in environmental manufacturing facility since its last Risk Management Standard that requires management.
For example, there have reportable incident.
businesses and operations, in a consistent been significant improvements over manner, to identify, evaluate and monitor Our Babcock Engineering Services time in the efficient use of energy and in risks and the steps that can be taken operations at Rosyth were awarded the water consumption at Rosyth Dockyard.
to reduce, eliminate or manage them.
prestigious British Safety Council Sword Our First Engineering rail business is Group risk registers are compiled from of Honour for a third time.
They have also this information and are regularly reviewed currently undertaking a major campaign been accredited with the British Safety by the Audit and Risk Committee.
to promote environmental awareness Council Health and Safety Management The Committee reviews individual major that directly targets and aims to educate 5 star rating from 20022006 inclusive.
risks in more detail on a rolling basis.
its workforce about environmental issues Internal analysis has identied and how the environmental impact Having been awarded RoSPA Gold Awards 10 group wide themes or categories of its operations can be reduced.
for fifteen consecutive years and an into which individual risks are allocated, Our Naval Services business, Order of Distinction in 2005, Babcock processes put into place to manage working in partnership with the Ministry Infrastructure Services have been selected them and are subsequently monitored of Defence, has secured ISO14001 for by the RoSPA Awards Adjudication Panel through the group risk register.
HM Naval Base Clydethe only Ministry to receive a Major Award in the Facilities of Defence organisation of this size and Management sector.
They were also Health, safety and environmental issues complexity to have done so.
In addition accredited ISO14001 for the Regional Given the complexity of the working our activity on the Regional Prime East Prime East contract.
environments the group is active in, contract for the Defence Estates the safety of our employees is paramount.
organisation has achieved similar Please see the relevant sections of the We monitor accidents, incidents and ISO14001 accreditation.
Operating and Financial review which near misses monthly and measure the Having regard to the nature of detail the mechanisms we have put in place incident frequency rate on a per 100,000 those operations for which we do have to address these risks and details of the hours worked basis.
The tables below management control and discretion, metrics we actively monitor and review.
show the groups incident history since we do not make significant emissions of April 2002. greenhouse gases that could otherwise Acquisitions disposals Regrettably, there were two fatalities Inappropriate acquisitions potentially be reduced or avoided.
We do, however, in the year to 31 March 2007 as a result put the group at risk depending on their keep this under review.
of a single incident in the newly acquired size and scope.
To mitigate this risk the ABB Powerlines business in South Africa.
group makes strenuous efforts early in the process to thoroughly understand the market and culture of the organisation under consideration to smooth the process of acquisition and integration.
Number of incidents Incident rate 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 03 04 05 06 07 per 100,000 hours worked Number of incidents: n Other lost n Other lost 1.6 time accidents 300 time accidents Fatalities 1 0 12 2 n Over-three-day n Over-three-day Major injuries injuries 250 injuries 1.2 dangerous occurrences 52 29 32 29 31 n Major injuries n Major injuries dangerous 200 dangerous Over-three-day injuries 173 149 121 90 102 occurrences occurrences Other lost time accidents 106 94 45 58 105 0.8 n Fatalities 150 n Fatalities Incident rate per 100,000 hours worked: 100 0.4 Fatalities 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 50 Major injuries dangerous occurrences 0.26 0.12 0.15 0.14 0.09 0 0 Over-three-day injuries 0.86 0.62 0.55 0.42 0.35 Other lost time accidents 0.53 0.39 0.20 0.27 0.40 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 Babcock International Group PLC 21 Annual report and accounts 2007 Bid success Personnel Pensions Given the nature of the groups businesses, The principal resource available to Managing the pension schemes of the the principal business risk relates to Babcock is our possession group properly is of great importance.
out-turn on contracts and the success of a critical mass of skilled engineers There is Board level input into strategy rate in bidding for contracts.
All proposed and project management staff.
as well as the use of external professional and actual bids for significant contracts Their knowledge base enables the advisers as appropriate.
In addition, are subject to continuous monitoring and organisation to respond exibly where practical, all pension schemes review by the Group Executive Directors to meet customer challenges of a in the group have a corporate trustee.
The final submission multi-disciplinary nature drawing on An annual review of pension funds is of significant bids requires formal approval engineering and project management conducted by the Board.
from one or more executive Directors.
Progress on all significant contracts In order to nurture our engineering Ethical reputational risks is kept under review within the relevant cadre, Babcock has developed and Breaches of ethics and or potential Division and is reviewed quarterly by continues to expand apprenticeship damage to the groups reputation is group Head Ofce.
and graduate entry schemes with a business risk.
Babcock has established a view to ensuring that the company a whistle-blower hot line in order to Contractual process and maintains a range of capabilities capable enable employees across the group to contract performance of meeting current and emerging express concern anonymously should An identied risk is that of failing to meet business opportunities.
they feel they are being asked to act the requirement of a contract and or not inappropriately or that others may be securing the contract when a customer Political doing so.
See page 22 for more information.
chooses to re-let the opportunity.
The largest customer for Babcock is the At the reputational level, having Each business division has governance UK public sector where decision-making established a track record for financial procedures in place, backed up by processes can affect the securing and performance, forecasting coupled with contract review and operational reviews retention of business.
To ensure that periodic strategic reviews are conducted with the Group Chief Executive to Babcock remains well positioned in to ensure alignment within the group consider performance.
In addition, a changing environment the group as to current position.
Babcock carefully selects commercial monitors its customers environment partners to ensure the availability of the and regularly considers how best Legacy liabilities appropriate mix of capabilities to meet to communicate its position.
Babcock, by virtue of its operational customer needs.
An example of this is in heritage and through acquisition has the Babcock approach to the Regional Information technology potential legacy liabilities.
These are Prime Contracts issued by Defence Estates Given the scale of the business and its monitored and, as required, managed where Babcock partners with Bovis Lend geographic spread across the United by the group and or with external Lease in the South-West and DynCorp in Kingdom and overseas, ensuring that professional advisors, as appropriate.
the East to provide the optimum solution the information technology architecture to the customer.
is t for purpose is of importance.
Elements of group activity are also The Group maintains an IT Steering reviewed through customer initiatives Group ITSG chaired by both the Group such as the Supplier Relations Group Finance Director and Group Head of IT.
of the Ministry of Defence on an annual The ITSG reviews current development basis and by Network Rail.
and projects and considers forthcoming business and what, if any, IT issues are raised.
Environment % n ISO14001 100 n Best practice KPI: Although our ability to implement good environmental 75 stewardship practices is on occasion set for us by customer requirements our target is to grow the percentage of revenues in each business segment from contracts which are ISO14001 accredited as 50 a means of encouraging grass-roots application of best environmentally sound practice across our operations.
Best practice refers to activities where 25 non-ISO14001 compliant measures are being applied.
Note: 2006 07 is the first year in which we have conducted this analysis.
0 Defence Technical Engineering and plant Networks Rail Babcock International Group PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review continued The group has in place group-wide and or We have a group-wide arrangement for Corporate and divisional policies covering employment employees to communicate concerns in Social Responsibility issues, health, safety and environmental confidence about possible improprieties matters and ethical conduct.
in matters of financial reporting and Introduction We engage with our stakeholders.
An independent company We will only be successful if our Most of our businesses have a customer is retained to provide a condential employees want to do their best for base made up of a few, large customers.
Employees us and our customers and partners, We maintain a continuous dialogue with have the number of this service and it is and the communities in which we them that will cover social, environmental advertised on notice boards.
The service operate, want to do business with us.
and ethical matters relevant to their allows an employee to leave a recorded We recognise that this depends on our operations.
We cultivate open and message, which may be anonymous, reputation and a key element of that constructive relationships with relevant if they wish.
The message is relayed as is how we manage the impact of our regulatory bodies, including the Health soon as possible, usually within 24 hours, operations on the environment and and Safety Executive and environmental to senior management in group head on the heath and safety of our employees protection agencies.
We participate ofce who will ensure, if the issue is one and others, and how we are perceived in community initiatives at both a local that is making proper use of the service, by those communities and customers.
We seek an open that the matter is followed up and, and honest dialogue with our employees.
if appropriate, reported to the Group Overview We seek to play an important role Chief Executive and or Board.
A reply We believe that awareness of these in market developments relevant can be provided to the employee via the factors is embedded in our management to our businesses.
service by means of a recorded response.
and operations, and at Board level.
Health, safety and environmental Health and Safety Employees performance is considered when Health and safety is addressed on page 19 Having high quality, suitably-trained and awarding bonuses under bonus schemes in more detail.
motivated management and employees for senior management, to emphasise is a key objective.
the importance the Board places on The environment Training: The past year has seen the these matters.
The environment is addressed on page 20 continuation of the Babcock Academy, Through its Audit and Risk in more detail.
which is run in conjunction with the Committee, the Board regularly reviews University of Strathclyde Business School.
Ethical conduct and whistle-blowing The Academy encourages development This, directly or indirectly, involves We insist on the highest standards of common business tools, ideas and a reviewing environmental, social and of honesty and integrity in all aspects language across our operations.
It covers governance matters that might pose of our business.
A strict ethical policy, strategic planning, financial matters, a threat to the companys short and and guidance on business dealings, leadership, human resources and long-term value.
The process, which which we believe complies with project management.
Our divisional is described further on pages 30 and international standards, is issued businesses supplement this training with 31, is well established as part of group to relevant group employees.
business-specic training through their management practice.
Internal and Employees are required to avoid conicts own programmes.
external auditors are also able to of interest regarding group business, We believe that we have an enviable comment on the process and share in to act lawfully and ethically and to skills base that enhances our contract its findings.
The Board considers that communicate non-compliance issues performance and allows us to deliver this Risk Review process, with the of which they become aware.
exible and reliable services to our importance it attaches to health, safety expanding customer base.
However, and environmental issues, when taken in common with many other technicallywith the specic risk management based business, we are concerned at the and health, safety and environmental increasing shortage of skilled employees.
management structures in place work together as an effective system for managing and mitigating significant risks from these matters.
Babcock International Group PLC 23 Annual report and accounts 2007 At divisional level we have for some time In South Africa, our business is involved Outlook run a variety of graduate development in a training programme for previously programmes, but given the growing disadvantaged children leading to Our financial results were pleasing, competition for skilled resource we qualication as equipment mechanics, with continued double-digit sales growth, are implementing a group-based with the trainees being employed in the underlying profit before tax up by 40% graduate recruitment and development business throughout their training and and underlying earnings per share programme to broaden the attraction having the opportunity upon qualication increasing by 36%.
This is the fifth of our businesses as a whole by offering to remain with the company.
It has also successive year of double-digit growth.
a more broadly based experience established a social responsibility fund This has been another good year and greater opportunity for career to focus on health and education for the for Babcock with continuing growth progression and specialisation.
disadvantaged, and has begun by sponsoring in core businesses and the successful Communication: We communicate four disadvantaged children through integration of Alstec and ABB Powerlines, with our employees in a variety of ways.
high school for five years.
In addition to each of which has performed better The BIG Picture is a group-wide funding their education, the business will than our planning assumptions.
publication issued several times a year mentor the children to help them make The potential addition of INS to our that keeps employees informed of what the social adjustment in moving from nuclear portfolio will further strengthen is happening in other divisions as well their disadvantaged backgrounds.
our position in the nuclear and nuclear as their own, and reports on significant In Scotland, our Babcock Naval decommissioning areas.
In the UK, Services business has a Community The outlook for Babcock remains we have a group-wide Employee Forum Investment Group that supports the local positive with our markets remaining for Consultation and Information as a community in education, regeneration good and our ability to deliver to means of keeping employees informed and environmental areas.
It has made customers requirements will continue of major developments and issues over 20 awards to a variety of community to ensure that we benefit from the affecting the group and for hearing groups.
In addition to financial support, strength of these markets.
their views, with elected representatives the business has been active in providing attending from our UK operations.
physical support to a number of groups As a group we have nonincluding the Childrens Hospice discriminatory employment policies.
Association Scotland and The Princess Full consideration is given to disabled Royal Trust.
Apprentices from the naval applicants for employment, having regard base have helped refurbish ofces for to their particular aptitudes and abilities, charitable organisations and supported and they share in the opportunities workshops for school pupils and children for training, career development with special needs.
The business is also and promotion.
on the Steering Committee of the In the year ended 31 March 2007 the Dunbartonshire Enterprise in Education group employed an average of 9,643 staff through Business Links programme and worldwide, of whom approximately 90% supports Young Enterprise Programmes were located in the United Kingdom.
Our Babcock Engineering Services business at Rosyth sponsors Babcock in the community a number of engineering and wider Our business divisions and group education projects with local schools.
headquarters support a range of Our Networks business has participated charitable and community projects in a young offenders programme in in their local areas.
A few examples conjunction with National Grid and other are mentioned below.
The programme seeks to rehabilitate young offenders into society and the workplace through professional vocational training and exposure to the working environment.
Peter Rogers Order book bn Group Chief Executive Bill Tame Group Finance Director 2006 07 2.4 2005 06 2.3
