FINANCIALS 139 independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the parent company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2007 which not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all comprise the company balance sheet and the related notes.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if These parent company financial statements have been prepared information specified by law regarding directors remuneration under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also and other transactions is not disclosed.
audited the information in the report of the remuneration We read other information contained in the annual report committee and directors remuneration report that is described and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent as having been audited.
The other information comprises We have reported separately on the group financial statements only the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, of Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2007. the financial review, the corporate governance report, the directors report, the corporate responsibility report and the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors unaudited part of the report of the remuneration committee The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, and directors remuneration report and the other items listed in the directors remuneration report and the parent company the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report financial statements in accordance with applicable law and if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements and the part of the report of the remuneration Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing committee and directors remuneration report to be audited in Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, parent company financial statements and the part of the report including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent information and explanations which we considered necessary in company financial statements give a true and fair view and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable whether the parent company financial statements and the part assurance that the parent company financial statements and of the report of the remuneration committee and directors the part of the report of the remuneration committee and remuneration report to be audited have been properly directors remuneration report to be audited are free from prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other report to you whether in our opinion the information given in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the directors report is consistent with the parent company the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
parent company financial statements and the part of the report The information given in the directors report includes that of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration specific information presented in the chairmans statement and report to be audited.
the chief executives review that is cross-referenced from the review of business development and prospects section of the directors report.
FINANCIALS 140 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the parent company financial statements continued Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 30 September 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of the report of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 18 December 2007 Note The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
