Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:34 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -515689947 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 7 Performance review operations, on sales to the continuing operations be eliminated on Selected financial and operating information consolidation from the discontinued operations and attributed to the continuing operations and vice versa.
This adjustment has two offsetting This information, insofar as it relates to 2007, has been extracted or elements: the net margin on crude rened by Innovene, as substantially derived from the audited financial statements of the BP group presented all crude for its reneries was supplied by BP and most of the rened on pages 93-171.
Note 1 to the Financial statements includes details on products manufactured by Innovene were taken by BP: and the the basis of preparation of these financial statements.
The selected margin on sales of feedstock from BPs US reneries to Innovenes information should be read in conjunction with the audited financial manufacturing plants.
The profits attributable to individual segments statements and related Notes elsewhere herein.
are not affected by this adjustment.
This representation does not BP sold its Innovene operations in December 2005.
In the indicate the profits earned by continuing or Innovene operations, as if circumstances of discontinued operations, IFRS require that the profits they were standalone entities, for past periods or those likely to be earned by the discontinued operations, in this case the Innovene earned in future periods.
See Financial statements Note 3 on page 110. b 2007 included $1,132 million for the acquisition of Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing company.
There were no significant acquisitions in 2006 or in 2005.
Capital expenditure in 2006 included $1 billion in respect of our investment in Rosneft.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions for 2004 included $1,354 million for including TNKs interest in Slavneft within TNK-BP and $1,355 million for the acquisition of Solvays interests in BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe and BP Solvay Polyethylene North America.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions for 2003 included $5,794 million for the acquisition of our interest in TNK-BP.
With the exception of the shares issued to Alfa Group and Access Renova AAR in connection with TNK-BP 2004-2006, all capital expenditure and acquisitions during the past five years have been financed from cash flow from operations, disposal proceeds and external financing.
c The number of ordinary shares shown has been used to calculate per share amounts.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:34 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1971094754 8 Production and net proved oil and natural gas reserves The following table shows our production for the past five years and the estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves at the end of each of those years.
Production and proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option to make lifting and sales arrangements independently, and include minority interests in consolidated operations.
b Includes 20 million barrels 23 million barrels at 31 December 2006 and 29 million barrels at 31 December 2005 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
c Includes 210 million barrels 179 million barrels at 31 December 2006 and 95 million barrels at 31 December 2005 in respect of the 6.51% minority interest in TNK-BP 6.29% at 31 December 2006 and 4.47% at 31 December 2005. d Includes 3,211 billion cubic feet of natural gas 3,537 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2006 and 3,812 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2005 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
e Includes 68 billion cubic feet 99 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2006 and 57 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2005 in respect of the 5.88% minority interest in TNK-BP 7.77% at 31 December 2006 and 4.47% at 31 December 2005.
During 2007, 414 million barrels of oil and natural gas, on an oil equivalent basis mmboe, were added to BPs proved reserves for subsidiaries excluding purchases and sales.
After allowing for production, which amounted to 937mmboe, BPs proved reserves for subsidiaries were 12,583mmboe at 31 December 2007.
These proved reserves are mainly located in the US 46%, Rest of Americas 19%, Asia Pacic 10%, Africa 8% and the UK 8%.
For equity-accounted entities, 1,168mmboe were added to proved reserves excluding purchases and sales, production was 470mmboe and proved reserves were 5,231mmboe at 31 December 2007.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf 1 million barrels.
Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products Risk factors marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency.
The implementation of group strategy We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
If any requires continued technological advances and innovation including of these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of advances in exploration, production, rening, petrochemical operations could suffer and the trading price and liquidity of our securities manufacturing technology and advances in technology related to energy could decline, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our performance could be impeded if competitors developed or Our system of risk management provides the response to enduring acquired intellectual property rights to technology that we required or if risks of group signicance through the establishment of standards and our innovation lagged the industry.
Inability to identify, assess and respond to risks through this and other controls could lead to inability to capture opportunities, Compliance and ethics risks threats materializing, inefficiency and legal non-compliance.
Regulatory The oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments The risks are categorized against the following areas: Strategy: Compliance and ethics: Financial control: and Operations.
throughout the world in such matters as the award of exploration and production interests, the imposition of specic drilling obligations, Strategic risks environmental protection controls, controls over the development and Access and renewal decommissioning of a eld including restrictions on production and, Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal of implementing activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products in certain challenges to renewal of our upstream portfolio are growing due to regulated commodity markets.
The oil industry is also subject to the increasing competition for access to opportunities globally.
Lack of paymentofroyalties andtaxation, which  material positions in new markets and or inability to complete disposals those payable in respect of other commercial activities, and operates in could result in an inability to capture above-average market growth.
certain tax jurisdictions that have a degree of uncertainty relating to the interpretation of, and changes to, tax law.
As a result of new laws and Prices and markets regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and certain operations, or we could incur additional costs.
Political developments and the outcome of meetings of OPEC can particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price Ethical misconduct and non-compliance increases have resulted in increased scal take, cost ination and more Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our onerous terms for access to resources.
As a result, increased oil prices commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal may not improve margin performance.
In addition to the adverse effect requirements, high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we on revenues, margins and profitability from any future fall in oil and expect of our businesses and people wherever we operate.
Incidents of natural gas prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators non-compliance with applicable laws and regulation or ethical misconduct would lead to a review for impairment of the groups oil and natural gas could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
This review would reect managements view of long-term oil events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of our and natural gas prices.
Such a review could result in a charge for operations.
impairment that could have a significant effect on the groups results of operations in the period in which it occurs.
Financial control risks Rening profitability can be volatile, with both periodic oversupply and Liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure supply tightness in various regional markets.
Sectors of the chemicals The group has established a financial framework to ensure that it is able industry are also subject to uctuations in supply and demand within the to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to petrochemicals market, with consequent effect on prices and constrain the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes of profitability.
positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to operate within our financial framework could lead to the group becoming nancially Climate change and carbon pricing distressed leading to a loss of shareholder value.
Commercial credit risk Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to is measured and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, reduced Inability to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to profitability from changes in operating costs and revenue generation and financial loss.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales strategic growth opportunities being impacted.
of rened products may be in a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in exchange rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures, Socio-political with a consequent impact on underlying costs.
We have operations in countries where political, economic and social For further information on financial instruments and financial risk transition is taking place.
Some countries have experienced political factors see Financial statements Note 28 on page 136 and Note 34 instability, changes to the regulatory environment, expropriation or on page 143. nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and insurrections.
Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or Liabilities and provisions terminate our operations, causing our development activities to be Changes in the external environment, such as new laws and regulations, curtailed or terminated in these areas or our production to decline and market volatility or other factors, could affect the adequacy of our could cause us to incur additional costs.
provisions for pensions, tax, environmental and legal liabilities.
We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and aspire to contribute to a better quality of life through the products and services we Operations risks provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or advancing the Operations safety and operations economic and social progress of the communities in which we operate, Process safety our reputation and shareholder value could be damaged.
Inherent in our operations are hazards that require continual oversight and control.
There are risks of technical integrity failure and loss of Competition containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material at operating The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
Failure to manage these risks could result in injury or is strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other loss of life, environmental damage and or loss of production.
industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:34 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1546924156 10 Personal safety period.
Poor delivery of any major project that underpins production Inability to provide safe environments for our workforce and the public growth and or a major programme designed to enhance shareholder .
value could adversely affect our financial performance.
Environmental Reserves replacement If we do not apply our resources to overcome the perceived trade-off Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on sustaining between global access to energy and the protection or improvement of long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are not the natural environment, we could fail to live up to our aspirations of no progressed to proved reserves in a timely and efficient manner, we will or minimal damage to the environment and contributing to human be unable to sustain long-term replacement of reserves.
Operations enterprise systems, security and continuity Product quality Digital infrastructure Supplying customers with on-specication products is critical to The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
maintaining our business applications availability.
A breach of our digital Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain security could cause serious damage to business operations and, in could lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
some circumstances, could result in injury to people, damage to assets, harm to the environment and breaches of regulations.
Drilling and production Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are Security subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating Security threats require continual oversight and control.
Acts of terrorism to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas eld.
The cost of that threaten our plants and ofces, pipelines, transportation or computer drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be systems would severely disrupt business and operations and could cause required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of a variety harm to people.
of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, Business continuity and disaster recovery adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental Contingency plans are required to continue or recover operations requirements.
Inability to restore or replace critical capacity to an agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong Transportation the impact of any disruption and could severely affect business and All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons contain inherent risks.
loss of containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material could occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
This is a Crisis management significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on the Crisis management plans and capability are essential to deal with environment and people and given the high volumes involved.
emergencies at every level of our operations.
If we do not respond or are perceived not to respond in an appropriate manner to either an external Operations planning and performance management or internal crisis, our business and operations could be severely Investment efficiency disrupted.
Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection could Operations people management lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
People and capability Employee training, development and successful recruitment of new Major project delivery staff are key to implementing our plans.
Inability to develop the human Successful execution of our group plan see page 12 depends critically capacity and capability across the organization could jeopardize on implementing the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan performance delivery.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:34 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1167440507 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 11 Forward-looking statements Statements regarding competitive position In order to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Statements referring to BPs competitive position are based on the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, BP is providing the following companys belief and, in some cases, rely on a range of sources, cautionary statement.
This document contains certain forward-looking including investment analysts reports, independent market studies and statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations BPs internal assessments of market share based on publicly available and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with information about the financial results and performance of market respect to these items.
These statements may generally, but not always, participants.
be identied by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected to, should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, plans, we see or similar expressions.
In particular, among other statements, i certain statements in Performance review pages 7-56 with regard to management aims and objectives, future capital expenditure, future hydrocarbon production volume, date s or period s in which production is scheduled or expected to come onstream or a project or action is scheduled or expected to begin or be completed, capacity of planned plants or facilities and impact of health, safety and environmental regulations: ii the statements in Performance review pages 7-45 with regard to planned expansion, investment or other projects and future regulatory actions: and iii the statements in Performance review pages 46-56 with regard to the plans of the group, cash ows, opportunities for material acquisitions, the cost of and provision for future remediation programmes, liquidity and costs for providing pension and other postretirement benets: and including under Liquidity and capital resources with regard to future production, future rening availability, future capital expenditure, sources of funding, future revenues and financial performance, potential for cost efficiencies, level of free cash ow allocated to share buybacks, shareholder distributions and share buybacks, gearing, working capital and expected payments under contractual and commercial commitments: are all forward-looking in nature.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, including the specic factors identied in the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the timing of bringing new elds onstream: future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing: operational problems: general economic conditions: political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in laws and governmental regulations: exchange rate uctuations: development and use of new technology: the success or otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: natural disasters and adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report including under Risk factors on pages 9-10.
In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this report, those set out above are important factors, although not exhaustive, that may cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:34 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -633916657 12 given to provide additional information for investors but does not reect Information on the company the way BP manages its activities.
We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, General Russia, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Currently, Unless otherwise indicated, information in this document reects 100% around 65% of the groups capital is invested in Organisation for of the assets and operations of the company and its subsidiaries that Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries, with just were consolidated at the date or for the periods indicated, including under 40% of our xed assets located in the US and around 25% located minority interests.
Also, unless otherwise indicated, gures for business in Europe.
sales and other operating revenues include sales between BP We believe that BP has a strong portfolio of assets: businesses.
In Exploration and Production, we have upstream interests in 29 The company, incorporated in 1909 in England and Wales, became countries.
Exploration and Production activities are managed through known as BP Amoco p. l. c. following the merger with Amoco Corporation operating units that are accountable for the day-to-day management of incorporated in Indiana, US, in 1889.
The company subsequently the segments activities.
An operating unit is accountable for one or changed its name to BP p. l. c. more elds.
profit centres comprise one or more operating units.
BP is one of the worlds leading oil companies on the basis of market profit centres are, or are expected to become, areas that provide capitalization and proved reserves.
Our worldwide headquarters is significant production and income for the segment.
Our current areas located at 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK, tel of major development include the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, 44 0 20 7496 4000.
Our agent in the US is BP America Inc. 4101 Azerbaijan, Algeria, Angola, Egypt and Asia Pacic where we believe Wineld Road, Warrenville, Illinois 60555, tel 1 630 821 2222. we have competitive advantage and that we believe provide the foundation for volume growth and improved margins in the future.
Overview of the group We also have significant midstream activities to support our upstream BP is a global group, with interests and activities held or operated interests.
through subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates established In Rening and Marketing, we have a strong presence in the US and in, and subject to the laws and regulations of, many different Europe.
In the US, we market under the Amoco and BP brands in the jurisdictions.
These interests and activities covered three business Midwest, east and southeast and under the ARCO brand on the west segments in 2007, supported by a number of organizational elements coast, and under the BP and Aral brands in Europe.
We have a longcomprising group functions and regions.
established supply and trading activity responsible for delivering value In 2007, the three business segments were Exploration and across the crude and oil products supply chain.
Our Aromatics & Production, Rening and Marketing and Gas, Power and Renewables.
Acetyls business maintains a manufacturing position globally, with With effect from 1 January 2008, the Gas, Power and Renewables emphasis on growth in Asia.
We also have, or are growing, segment ceased to report separately see Resegmentation in 2008 on businesses elsewhere in the world under the BP and Castrol brands, page 13.
Exploration and Productions activities include oil and natural including a strong global lubricants portfolio and other business-togas exploration, development and production upstream activities, business marketing businesses aviation and marine covering the together with related pipeline, transportation and processing activities mobility sectors.
We continue to seek opportunities to broaden our midstream activities.
The activities of Rening and Marketing include activities in growth markets such as China and India.
the supply and trading, rening, marketing and transportation of crude In our Gas, Power and Renewables businesses, marketing and trading oil, petroleum and chemicals products.
Gas, Power and Renewables is undertaken primarily in the US, Canada, the UK and the rest of activities included marketing and trading of gas and power, marketing of Europe.
Our marketing and trading activities include natural gas, liqueed natural gas LNG, natural gas liquids NGLs, and low-carbon power and NGLs.
Our LNG activities identify and capture worldwide power generation through our Alternative Energy business.
The group opportunities for our upstream natural gas resources and are focused provides high-quality technological support for all its businesses through on growing natural gas markets, including the US, the UK, Spain and its research and engineering activities.
key consuming countries of the Asia Pacic region.
We have a Group functions serve the business segments, aiming to achieve significant NGLs processing and marketing business in North America.
coherence across the group, manage risks effectively and achieve BP Alternative Energy, launched in November 2005, combines all of economies of scale.
Each head of region ensures regional consistency of BPs interests in businesses that provide low-carbon energy solutions the activities of business segments and group functions and represents for power generation: solar, wind, gas-red power generation and BP to external parties.
hydrogen power with carbon capture and storage.
Alternative Energy The groups system of internal control is described in the BP has solar production facilities in the US, Spain, China, India and management framework.
It is designed to meet the expectations of Australia: and wind farms in the Netherlands, India and the US.
internal control of the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code in the We are advancing development of hydrogen power plants and are UK and of COSO committee of the sponsoring organization for the involved in gas-red power projects in the US, the UK, Spain, Vietnam, Treadway Commission in the US.
The system of internal control is the Trinidad & Tobago and South Korea.
complete set of management systems, organizational structures, Through non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities, during the processes, standards and behaviours that are employed to conduct the period covered by this report, BP conducted limited marketing, licensing business of BP and deliver returns to shareholders.
The design of the and trading activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identied system of internal control addresses risks and how to respond to them.
by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism.
BP Each component of the system is in itself a device to respond to a believes that these activities are immaterial to the group.
particular type or collection of risks.
BP has interests in, and is the operator of, two elds and a pipeline The group strategy describes the groups strategic objectives and the located outside of Iran in which the National Iranian Oil Company NIOC presumptions made by BP about the future.
It describes strategic risks and an afliated entity have interests.
In Iran, BP buys small quantities of that arise from making such presumptions and the actions to be taken crude oil.
This is primarily for sale to third parties in Europe and a small to manage or mitigate the risks.
The board delegates to the group chief portion is used by BP in its own reneries in South Africa and Europe.
In executive responsibility for developing BPs strategy and its addition, BP sells small quantities of crude oil into Iran and blends and implementation through the group plan that determine the setting of markets small quantities of lubricants for sale to domestic consumers priorities and allocation of resources.
The group chief executive is obliged through a joint venture there, which has a blending facility.
However, BP to discuss with the board, on the basis of the strategy and group plan, all does not seek to obtain from the government of Iran licences or material matters currently or prospectively affecting BPs performance.
agreements for oil and gas projects in Iran, is not conducting any As the groups business segments are managed on a global, not technical studies in Iran and does not own or operate any reneries or regional, basis, geographical information for the group and segments is chemicals plants in Iran.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:34 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 2038944370 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 13 BP sells small quantities of lubricants in Cuba through a 50 50 joint adjustments and liabilities.
Innovene represented the majority of the venture there.
In Syria, small quantities of lubricants are sold through a Olens and Derivatives business.
Additionally, disposal proceeds distributor and BP obtains small volumes of crude oil supplies for sale to included proceeds from the sale of the groups interest in the Ormen third parties in Europe.
These sales and purchases are insignicant and Lange eld in Norway.
BP does not provide other goods, technologies or services in these countries.
Resegmentation in 2008 On 11 October 2007, we announced our intention to simplify the Acquisitions and disposals organizational structure of BP.
From 1 January 2008, there are only two In 2007, BP acquired Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing company, business segments: Exploration and Production and Rening and Texaco Rafniderij Pernis B. V. The acquisition included Chevrons 31% Marketing.
A separate business, Alternative Energy, handles BPs lowminority shareholding in Nerefco, its 31% shareholding in the 22.5 MW carbon businesses and future growth options outside oil and gas.
wind farm co-located at the renery as well as a 22.8% shareholding in As a result, and with effect from 1 January 2008: the TEAM joint venture terminal and shareholdings in two local pipelines The Gas, Power and Renewables segment ceased to report linking the TEAM terminal to the renery.
$4,267 million, which included $1,903 million from the sale of the The NGLs, LNG and gas and power marketing and trading businesses Coryton renery and $605 million from the sale of our exploration and were transferred from the Gas, Power and Renewables segment to production gas infrastructure business in the Netherlands.
the Exploration and Production segment.
In 2006, there were no significant acquisitions.
BP purchased 9.6% of The Alternative Energy business was transferred from the Gas, Power the shares issued under Rosnefts IPO for a consideration of $1 billion and Renewables segment to Other businesses and corporate.
This represented an interest of around The Emerging Consumers Marketing Unit was transferred from 1.4% in Rosneft.
Disposal proceeds were $6,254 million, which included Rening and Marketing to Alternative Energy which is reported in $2.1 billion on the sale of our interest in the Shenzi discovery and around Other businesses and corporate.
$1.3 billion from the sale of our producing properties on the Outer The Biofuels business was transferred from Rening and Marketing to Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico to Apache Corporation.
Alternative Energy which is reported in Other businesses and In 2005, there were no significant acquisitions.
were $11,200 million, which included net cash proceeds from the sale of The Shipping business was transferred from Rening and Marketing Innovene to INEOS of $8,304 million after selling costs, closing to Other businesses and corporate.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:35 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 154290018 14 $ per million British thermal units ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ d Average Henry Hub gas price 6.86 7.24 8.65 Exploration and Production pence per therm ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Our Exploration and Production segment includes upstream and Average UK National Balancing Point midstream activities in 29 countries, including the US, the UK, Angola, gas price 29.95 42.19 40.71 Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, Russia, Trinidad & Tobago Trinidad and a Profit before interest and tax from continuing operations includes profit after locations within Asia Pacic, Latin America, North Africa and the Middle interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
Upstream activities involve oil and natural gas exploration and eld The Exploration and Production segment does not undertake any hedging activity.
Consequently, realizations reflect the market price achieved.
Realizations are based development and production.
Our exploration programme is currently on sales of consolidated subsidiaries only, which excludes equity-accounted focused around the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Algeria, Angola, entities.
Major development areas include the Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
d Henry Hub First of Month Index.
deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, Algeria, Angola, Egypt and Asia Pacic.
During 2007, production came from 22 countries.
The principal areas of production are Russia, the US, Trinidad, the UK, Latin America, Upstream operations in Argentina, Bolivia, Abu Dhabi, Kazakhstan and the Middle East, Asia Pacic, Azerbaijan, Angola and Egypt.
the TNK-BP and some of the Sakhalin operations in Russia, as well as Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of crude some of our operations in Indonesia and Venezuela, are conducted oil and natural gas pipelines, processing and export terminals and LNG through equity-accounted entities.
Our most significant midstream The Exploration and Production strategy is to build production by: pipeline interests include the Trans Alaska Pipeline System, the Forties Focusing on nding the largest elds in the worlds most prolic Pipeline System and the Central Area Transmission System pipeline, hydrocarbon basins.
both in the UK sector of the North Sea, and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Building leadership positions in these areas.
pipeline, running through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
Major LNG Managing the decline of existing producing assets and divesting activities are located in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia.
Further LNG assets when they no longer compete in our portfolio.
businesses with BP involvement are being built up in Egypt and Angola.
Through the application of advanced technology and significant Our oil and gas production assets are located onshore or offshore and investment, we have gained a strong position in many of our operating include wells, gathering centres, in-eld ow lines, processing facilities, areas.
storage facilities, offshore platforms, export systems e. g. transit lines, Total capital expenditure and acquisitions in 2007 was $13.9 billion pipelines and LNG plant facilities.
There were no significant acquisitions in the period from 2005 to 2007.
Capital 2007 2006 2005 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ expenditure in 2008 is planned to be around $15 billion including Sales and other operating revenues approximately $0.5 billion in respect of the gas and power businesses from continuing operations 54,550 52,600 47,210 that are now reported through Exploration and Production, as described profit before interest and tax from below, and excluding the impact of our transaction with Husky Energy a continuing operations 26,938 29,629 25,502 Inc. which is further described on page 22.
This reects our project Total assets 108,874 99,310 93,447 programme, managed within the context of our disciplined approach to Capital expenditure and acquisitions 13,906 13,118 10,237 capital investment and taking into account sector-specic ination.
Net proved reserves equityaccounted entities 5,231 4,537 3,870 Resegmentation in 2008 With effect from 1 January 2008, the NGLs, LNG and the gas and power thousand barrels per day ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ marketing and trading businesses were transferred from the Gas, Power Liquids production group 1,304 1,351 1,423 and Renewables segment to the Exploration and Production segment.
We may do Natural gas production equitythis alone or, more frequently, with partners.
BP acts as operator for accounted entities 921 1,005 912 many of these ventures.
These b Average BP NGL realizations 46.20 37.17 33.23 costs include exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are bc Average BP liquids realizations 67.45 59.23 48.51 capitalized within intangible xed assets, and geological and geophysical Average West Texas Intermediate exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
oil price 72.20 66.02 56.58 Approximately 47% of 2007 exploration and appraisal costs were Average Brent oil price 72.39 65.14 54.48 directed towards appraisal activity.
In 2007, we participated in 86 gross 37 net exploration and appraisal wells in 12 countries.
Average BP US natural gas Total exploration expense in 2007 of $756 million 2006 $1,045 million b realizations 5.43 5.74 6.78 and 2005 $684 million included the write-off of expenses related to Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:35 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 182551524 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 15 unsuccessful drilling activities in Russia $86 million excluding TNK-BP, Resource progression Egypt $49 million, Colombia $49 million, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: $36 million, onshore North America $36 million, Angola $27 million prospect inventory, non-proved resources and proved reserves.
discovery is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory In 2007, we obtained upstream rights in several new tracts, which to the non-proved resource category.
The resources move through include the following: various non-proved resource sub-categories as their technical and In the Gulf of Mexico, we have been awarded 171 blocks BP average commercial maturity increases through appraisal activity.
equity 100% through the Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sales 204 Resources in a eld will only be categorized as proved reserves when and 205. all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been met, including an In Oman, we signed a production-sharing agreement PSA to appraise internally imposed requirement for project sanction or for sanction and develop the Khazzan Makarem gas elds.
expected within six months and, for additional reserves in existing elds, In Colombia, BP was awarded operatorship in two blocks, RC4 BP the requirement that the reserves be included in the business plan and 35% and RC5 BP 100%, which cover approximately 6,200 square scheduled for development, typically within three years.
Where, on kilometres in the Caribbean Sea, offshore northern Colombia.
occasion, the group decides to book reserves where development is In Libya, BP signed a major exploration and production agreement scheduled to commence beyond three years, these reserves will be with Libyas National Oil Company, covering over 53,000 square booked only where they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved kilometres both onshore and offshore.
Internal approval and final investment decision are what we refer In 2007, we were involved in a number of discoveries.
In most cases, to as project sanction.
reserves bookings from these elds will depend on the results of At the point of sanction, all booked reserves will be categorized as ongoing technical and commercial evaluations, including appraisal drilling.
Volumes will subsequently be recategorized Our most significant discoveries in 2007 included the following: from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of development In Angola, we made further discoveries in the ultra deepwater greater activity.
When part of a wells reserves depends on a later phase of than 1,500 metres Block 31 BP 26.7% and operator with the activity, only that portion of reserves associated with existing, available Miranda, Cordelia and Portia wells, bringing the total number of facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first PD bookings will occur discoveries in Block 31 to 15. at the point of first oil or gas production.
Major development projects In Azerbaijan, we made a further discovery in a new reservoir in Shah typically take one to four years from the time of initial booking of PUD Deniz BP 25.5% and operator with the SDX-04 well.
reserves to the start of production.
Changes to reserves bookings may In Egypt, we made three discoveries with the Giza North-1 BP 60% be made due to analysis of new or existing data concerning production, and operator, Taurus Deep BP 60% and operator and Satis BP 50% reservoir performance, commercial factors, acquisition and divestment and operator wells.
activity and additional reservoir development activity.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we made a discovery with the Isabela well BP 67% and operator.
Governance BPs centrally controlled process for proved reserves estimation approval Reserves and production forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
It Compliance consists of the following elements: IFRS does not provide specic guidance on reserves disclosures.
BP Accountabilities of certain ofcers of the group to ensure that there is estimates proved reserves in accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a and review and approval of proved reserves bookings independent of the relevant guidance notes and letters issued by the SEC staff.
operating business and that there are effective controls in the approval By their nature, there is always some risk involved in the ultimate process and verication that the proved reserves estimates and the development and production of reserves, including, but not limited to, related financial impacts are reported in a timely manner.
final regulatory approval, the installation of new or additional Capital allocation processes, whereby delegated authority is exercised infrastructure as well as changes in oil and gas prices and the continued to commit to capital projects that are consistent with the delivery of availability of additional development capital.
A formal review process exists to ensure All the groups oil and gas reserves held in consolidated companies that both technical and commercial criteria are met prior to the have been estimated by the groups petroleum engineers.
Of the equitycommitment of capital to projects.
accounted volumes in 2007, 16% were based on estimates prepared by Internal Audit, whose role includes systematically examining the group petroleum engineers and 84% were based on estimates prepared effectiveness of the groups financial controls designed to assure the by independent engineering consultants, although all of the groups oil reliability of reporting and safeguarding of assets and examining the and gas reserves held in equity-accounted entities are reviewed by the groups compliance with laws, regulations and internal standards.
groups petroleum engineers before making the assessment of volumes Approval hierarchy whereby proved reserves changes above certain to be booked by BP.
threshold volumes require central authorization and periodic reviews.
Our proved reserves are associated with both concessions tax and The frequency of review is determined according to eld size and royalty arrangements and agreements where the group is exposed to ensures that more than 80% of the BP reserves base undergoes the upstream risks and rewards of ownership, but where title to the central review every two years and more than 90% is reviewed every hydrocarbons is not conferred, such as PSAs.
In a concession, the four years.
consortium of which we are a part is entitled to the reserves that can be For the executive directors and senior management, no specic produced over the licence period, which may be the life of the eld.
In a portion of compensation bonuses is directly related to oil and gas PSA, we are entitled to recover volumes that equate to costs incurred to reserves targets.
Additions to proved reserves is one of several develop and produce the reserves and an agreed share of the remaining indicators by which the performance of the Exploration and Production volumes or the economic equivalent.
As part of our entitlement is driven segment is assessed by the remuneration committee for the purposes of by the monetary amount of costs to be recovered, price uctuations will determining compensation bonuses for the executive directors and have an impact on both production volumes and reserves.
Other indicators include a number of financial and cent of our proved reserves are associated with PSAs.
countries in which we operate under PSAs are Algeria, Angola, BPs variable pay programme for the other senior managers in the Azerbaijan, Egypt, Indonesia and Vietnam.
Exploration and Production segment is based on individual performance We separately disclose our share of reserves held in equity-accounted contracts.
Individual performance contracts are based on agreed items entities jointly controlled entities and associates, although we do not from the business performance plan, one of which, if they choose, could control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
relate to oil and gas reserves.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:35 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 308686455 16 Reserve replacement In 2007, net additions to the groups proved reserves excluding sales Total hydrocarbon proved reserves, on an oil equivalent basis and and purchases of reserves-in-place and equity-accounted entities excluding equity-accounted entities, comprised 12,583mmboe at amounted to 414mmboe, principally through improved recovery from, 31 December 2007, a decrease of 4.4% compared with 31 December and extensions to, existing elds and discoveries of new elds.
Natural gas represents about 56% of these reserves.
The reserves additions through improved recovery from, and extensions to, reduction includes net sales of 58mmboe, largely comprising a number existing elds and discoveries of new elds, 64% are associated with of assets in the Netherlands, Pakistan, Canada and the US.
new projects and are proved undeveloped reserves additions.
The Total hydrocarbon proved reserves, on an oil equivalent basis for remainder are in existing developments where they represent a mixture equity-accounted entities alone, comprised 5,231mmboe at 31 December of proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves.
The principal 2007, an increase of 15.3% compared with 31 December 2006.
Natural reserves additions were in the Norway Skarv, the US Liberty, Prudhoe gas represents about 12% of these proved reserves.
The increase Bay, Great White, Nakika, Thunder Horse, Trinidad Immortelle, includes net sales of 3mmboe, largely comprising a number of assets in Manakin, Angola Pazor and Canada Noel.
The proved reserves replacement ratio also known as the production Production replacement ratio is the extent to which production is replaced by Our total hydrocarbon production during 2007 averaged 2,549 thousand proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil equivalent terms barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d for subsidiaries and and includes changes resulting from revisions to previous estimates, 1,269mboe d for equity-accounted entities, a decrease of 3% and 2% improved recovery and extensions and discoveries, and may be respectively compared with 2006.
For subsidiaries, 35% of our expressed as a replacement ratio excluding acquisitions and divestments production was in the US and 13% in the UK.
For equity-accounted or as a total replacement ratio including acquisitions and divestments.
entities, 72% of production was from TNK-BP.
Total production for 2008 is expected to be higher than in 2007.
excluding equity-accounted entities 44 34 68 Proved reserves replacement ratio, excluding equity-accounted entities, including sales and purchases of reserves-in-place 38 11 40 Proved reserves replacement ratio, for equity-accounted entities 248 272 151 Proved reserves replacement ratio, for equity-accounted entities, including sales and purchases of reserves-in-place 248 239 141 million barrels of oil equivalent ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Additions to proved developed reserves, excluding equityaccounted entities, including sales and purchases of reservesa in-place 929 675 632 Additions to proved developed reserves, for equity-accounted entities, including sales and a purchases of reserves-in-place 473 936 474 % ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Proved developed reserves replacement ratio, excluding equity-accounted entities, including sales and purchases of reserves-in-place 99 70 63 Proved developed reserves replacement ratio, for equityaccounted entities, including sales and purchases of reservesin-place 101 195 99 a This includes some reserves that were previously classified as proved undeveloped.
We disclose our share of reserves held in joint ventures and associates that are accounted for by the equity method although we do not control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
b In certain deepwater fields, such as fields in the Gulf of Mexico, BP has claimed proved reserves before production flow tests are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and environmental implications of conducting these tests.
The industry has made substantial technological improvements in understanding, measuring and delineating reservoir properties without the need for flow tests.
The general method of reserves assessment to determine reasonable certainty of commercial recovery that BP employs relies on the integration of three types of data: 1 well data used to assess the local characteristics and conditions of reservoirs and fluids: 2 field scale seismic data to allow the interpolation and extrapolation of these characteristics outside the immediate area of the local well control: and 3 data from relevant analogous fields.
Well data includes appraisal wells or sidetrack holes, full logging suites, core data and fluid samples.
BP considers the integration of this data in certain cases to be superior to a flow test in providing a better understanding of the overall reservoir performance.
The collection of data from logs, cores, wireline formation testers, pressures and fluid samples calibrated to each other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir properties to be determined over a greater volume than the localized volume of investigation associated with a short-term flow test.
Historically, proved reserves recorded using these methods have been validated by actual production levels.
As at the end of 2007, BP had proved reserves in 22 fields in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico that had been initially booked prior to production flow testing.
Of these fields, 19 are in production and one, Thunder Horse, is expected to begin production by the end of 2008.
Two other fields are in the early stages of development.
d Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 98 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
e Includes 20 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
f Includes 210 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 6.51% minority interest in TNK-BP.
g Includes 3,211 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
h Includes 68 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 5.88% minority interest in TNK-BP.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:35 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 2020516132 18 The following tables show BPs production by major eld for 2007, 2006 and 2005.
c In 2007, BP divested its producing properties in the Netherlands and some producing properties in the US Lower 48 and Canada.
TNK-BP disposed of its interests in several non-core properties.
In 2006, BP divested its producing properties on the Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico and its interest in the Statfjord oil and gas field in the UK.
Our interests in the Boqueron, Desarollo Zulia Occidental DZO and Jusepin projects in Venezuela were reduced following a decision by the Venezuelan government.
TNK-BP disposed of its non-core interests in the Udmurtneft assets.
In 2005, BP divested the Teak, Samaan and Poui assets in Trinidad and sold interests in certain properties in the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, BP exchanged the Gulf of Mexico deepwater Blind Faith prospect for Kerr McGees interest in the Arkoma Red Oak and Williburton fields, and TNK-BP disposed of non-core producing assets in the Saratov region.
d Volumes relate to six BP-operated fields within ETAP.
BP has no interests in the remaining three ETAP fields, which are operated by Shell.
e Includes 54 net mboe d of NGLs from processing plants in which BP has an interest 2006 55mboe d and 2005 58mboe d. f The BP group holds interests, through associates, in onshore and offshore concessions in Abu Dhabi, expiring in 2014 and 2018 respectively.
During the second quarter of 2007, we updated our reporting policy in Abu Dhabi to be consistent with general industry practice and as a result have started reporting production and reserves there gross of production taxes.
b In 2007, BP divested its producing properties in the Netherlands and some producing properties in the US Lower 48 and Canada.
d Includes 4 million cubic feet per day mmcf d of natural gas received as in-kind tariff payments in 2005.
None received in 2006 and 2007. e Natural gas production volumes exclude gas consumed in operations within the lease boundaries of the producing field, but the related reserves are included in the groups reserves.
In the Gulf Coast and mid-continental basins Kansas, Louisiana, Crude oil production showed a moderate decline of 18mb d from Oklahoma and Texas our assets produced 203mboe d in 2007.
2006, with production from new projects Gulf of Mexico being offset by The development of recovery technology continues to be a divestments and natural reservoir decline.
The NGLs component of fundamental strategy in accessing our North America tight gas liquids production decreased by 15mb d, driven mainly by commercial resources.
Through the use of horizontal drilling and advanced hydraulic changes in NGL processing contracts, natural reservoir decline and fracturing techniques, we are achieving well rates up to 10 times higher divestments.
Gas production was lower 201mmcf d because of than more conventional techniques and per-well recoveries some five divestments and natural reservoir decline.
Development expenditure in the US excluding midstream during significant events were: 2007 was $3,861 million, compared with $3,579 million in 2006 and In January 2007, we announced our investment of up to $2.4 billion $2,965 million in 2005.
The annual increase is the result of various expected over 13 years in the coalbed methane eld development development projects in progress.
project in the San Juan basin in Colorado.
The project includes the Our activities within the US take place in three main areas.
significant drilling of more than 700 wells, nearly all from existing well sites, and events during 2007 within each of these are indicated below.
the installation of associated eld facilities.
Drilling continued during 2007 on the Wamsutter natural gas Deepwater Gulf of Mexico expansion project.
The multi-year drilling programme is expected to Deepwater Gulf of Mexico is our largest area of growth in the US.
In increase production signicantly by the end of 2010.
We are currently 2007, our deepwater Gulf of Mexico liquids production was 196mb d and testing horizontal fracturing technology and carrying out wireless gas production was 268mmcf d. seismic studies on the reservoir.
significant events were: significant progress has been made on decommissioning the Gulf of The Atlantis platform BP 56% and operator was successfully Mexico Shelf hurricane-damaged platforms, which is on track for commissioned and started producing oil and gas during the fourth completion in 2010.
This work has been carried out almost exclusively quarter of 2007.
Atlantis employs the deepest moored platform of its using a diverless access approach, signicantly reducing exposure to kind in the world and a separate semi-submersible drilling and safety issues associated with diving.
Late in 2007, we signed an construction rig.
The versatile modular design of the platform provides agreement with Wild Well Control, an afliate of Superior Energy potential to add wells to increase recovery.
Services, to sell seven damaged platforms and 59 associated wells At Thunder Horse BP 75% and operator, as a result of a metallurgical and consequentially to transfer the decommissioning liability to them.
failure during pre-commissioning checks in 2006, the decision was They will assume responsibility for plugging and abandonment of all taken to repair all at-risk subsea components.
All relevant components wells, salvage and removal or reeng of the damaged platforms and have been removed from the sea oor and progress made in related facilities, and restoration of all sites.
In 2007, the platforms drilling rig In 2007, BP divested its non-core Permian assets as part of the asset was commissioned and its first well successfully drilled and exchange agreement with Occidental.
In consideration, BP received completed.
Thunder Horse is expected to start production by the end the remaining one-third interest in the Horn Mountain eld in the Gulf of 2008.
Designed to process 250,000 barrels of oil per day and 200 of Mexico and approximately $100 million cash.
million cubic feet per day of natural gas, Thunder Horse is expected to In the third quarter of 2007, we ceased operations at the Whitney be the largest eld in the Gulf of Mexico.
The eld will be supported Canyon gas plant located near Evanston, Wyoming.
By doing this we by a network of 25 subsea wells.
expect to extend the economic life of the eld by re-routing the In November, BP started production from two multi-phase subsea natural gas processed at the Whitney Canyon gas plant to Chevrons pump stations in the King eld BP 100% and operator.
At a depth of Carter Creek gas plant.
BP intends to continue to operate the 28 wells 1,700 metres and 15 miles away from the Marlin platform, this sets a in the Whitney Canyon eld and the inlet facility, as well as the nearby double world record for both depth and distance.
The two pumps are Painter Complex gas plant.
expected to enhance production from the King eld by an average of 20% and to extend the production life of the eld by five years Alaska through improved recovery.
In Alaska, BP net oil production in 2007 was 209mboe d, a decrease of BP was awarded 88 blocks in the western Gulf of Mexico lease sale 7% from 2006, due to normal decline in the large mature elds, partially and 83 blocks in the central Gulf of Mexico lease sale offset by lower downtime.
On 6 June 2007, a discovery was made with the Isabela well BP 67% BP operates 13 North Slope oil elds including Prudhoe Bay, Northstar and operator, located on Mississippi Canyon Block 562 in and Milne Point and four North Slope pipelines and owns a significant approximately 2,000 metres of water about 150 miles south-east of interest in six other producing elds.
BPs 26.4% interest in Prudhoe Bay New Orleans.
also includes a large undeveloped natural gas resource.
Developing During the second quarter, we increased our ownership in Horn viscous oil production and unlocking large undeveloped heavy oil Mountain to 100% as part of an asset exchange agreement with resources through the application of advanced technology are important Occidental Petroleum Corporation Occidental.
parts of the Alaska business strategy.
In April 2007, BP disposed of its 80% interest in the Entrada eld to significant events in 2007 were: Callon Petroleum Company for a total price of $190 million.
On 20 June 2007, the Prudhoe Bay eld and the Trans Alaska Pipeline System TAPS celebrated the 30th anniversary of first production Lower 48 states from the North Slope of Alaska.
The original expectations for Prudhoe In the Lower 48 states onshore, our 2007 natural gas production was Bay were to drill 500 wells, produce for 20 years and recover 9 billion 1,850mmcf d, which was down 4% compared with 2006.
Liquids boe of hydrocarbon resources.
After 30 years, more than 2,500 wells production was 108mb d, down 14% compared with 2006.
The year-onhave been drilled, more than 11.5 billion boe have been recovered to year decrease in production is mainly attributed to normal eld decline date, and the eld is expected to continue to produce for another 50 and divestment activity.
In 2007, we drilled approximately 400 wells as years or more.
Prudhoe Bay production averaged 400mboe d gross operator and continued to maintain a stable programme of drilling activity in 2007, with BPs net share being 102mboe d. Overall, downtime throughout the year.
during the year was consistent with plans for normal maintenance activity and there were no large unplanned production disruptions.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:36 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -261122979 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 21 In 2007, we spent more than $250 million BP net in Alaska on a interwell programme has been started at Endicott.
Results from this programme to upgrade or replace pipelines, increase inspection and programme are expected in the second half of 2008 and are expected 2 corrosion monitoring, carry out preventative maintenance and repairs, to lead to a full-eld project commitment in 2009.
The LoSal expand capacity, and improve the efficiency of major facilities in all technology has implications for many elds beyond BPs Alaska BP-operated elds.
portfolio and the work at Endicott and in Alaska will be extrapolated to We have also made progress on the replacement of sections of oil BPs global portfolio.
transit lines in the Prudhoe Bay eld, which for these transit lines has On 3 January 2008, the US Minerals Management Service approved included adding pipeline pigging facilities to clean and inspect BPs development and production plan for the Liberty eld.
During pipelines, direct corrosion inhibitor injection, new leak detection and 2007, $25 million was spent on pre-project planning for Liberty, corrosion monitoring systems.
We aim to complete this activity in including engineering, environmental studies and permit applications.
Development plans for Liberty, which lies offshore to the east of the On 16 February 2007, BP temporarily shut down its Northstar Endicott eld, include ultra-extended reach wells to be drilled from production facility for 18 days to repair welds in the low pressure gas pads at Endicott and processing Liberty oil production through existing piping system.
The facility was restarted on 6 March.
impact of the production disruption resulting from this shutdown was more than offset by the beneficial impacts of an earlier-than-planned United Kingdom restart of the Milne Point K Pad pipeline replacement and strong We are the largest producer of oil, second largest producer of gas and reservoir performance throughout 2007 at Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk.
the largest overall producer of hydrocarbons in the UK.
In 2007, total On 25 October 2007, BP Exploration Alaska BPXA entered into a plea liquids production was 201mb d, a 20% decrease on 2006, and gas agreement with the US Department of Justice DOJ, which ended production was 768mmcf d, an 18% decrease on 2006.
This decrease in both federal and state government criminal investigations of BPXA on production was driven by natural decline and the unplanned shutdown of matters related to the March and August 2006 oil transit line spills in the Central Area Transmission System CATS pipeline.
On 29 November 2007, in accordance with the agreement, the North Sea are focused on safe operations, efficient delivery of BPXA pleaded guilty to a misdemeanour violation of the US Federal production and midstream operations, in-eld drilling and selected new Water Pollution Control Act.
BPXA paid a $12 million gross ne and eld developments.
Our development expenditure excluding midstream is subject to one-to-three years probation.
BPXA also paid restitution in the UK was $804 million in 2007, compared with $794 million in 2006 of $4 million gross to the State of Alaska and paid another $4 million and $790 million in 2005. gross to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for Arctic significant events in 2007 were: environmental research.
The DOJ and the State of Alaska have agreed During the second quarter, we announced the decision not to proceed not to bring any further criminal charges against BPXA in connection with the decarbonized fuel DF1 project in Scotland.
This project was with the March and August 2006 spills.
being led by BP, in partnership with Scottish and Southern Energy, On 2 June 2007, the Alaska Gasline Inducement Act AGIA was and would have produced hydrogen as a decarbonized fuel for use in passed into law.
AGIA sets out the terms and conditions for power generation, with the carbon dioxide CO gases being exported 2 application for the exclusive right to build a natural gas pipeline to to the Miller oil reservoir in the North Sea for increased oil recovery transport North Slope gas to market.
BP stated publicly that it cannot and ultimate storage.
significant investment had been made in frontsubmit a conforming bid under AGIA because of, in its view, end engineering and design activity.
Development of the project was unresolved risks and uncertainties related to project costs, scal terms originally planned to begin at the end of 2006 and required UK and pipeline tariffs.
BP continues to develop and assess options for government support.
In May, the UK government announced that it commercializing the major undeveloped gas resources on Alaskas would not decide which carbon capture storage project to support North Slope.
The timing of this decision did not t with the DF1 project timeline, which was constrained by the maturity of On 16 November 2007, the Alaska State Legislature passed a new the Miller oil eld, and therefore the decision was taken not to petroleum production tax law, which replaced the Petroleum Production Tax legislation enacted in 2006.
The Miller eld, which began production in 1992, has now increases production taxes and is effective retrospectively from 1 July ceased production and decommissioning activity is in the planning 2007.
The key terms of the new production tax law include a base oil stage.
tax rate of 25% on net profits, with progressive increases expected in We sanctioned the Dimlington Onshore Compression and Terminals the oil tax rate as the net margin increases above $30 bbl.
The new Integration project, a $250-million investment in new gas compression production tax law will be governed by regulations to be dened and facilities at the BP-operated Dimlington Terminal, which receives gas promulgated in 2008 by the Alaska State Department of Revenue.
from elds in the southern North Sea.
This new equipment is On 26 December 2007, the Alaska Superior Court issued a ruling expected to reduce pipeline pressure between the offshore elds and reversing the 2006 decision by the Department of Natural Resources the terminal, allowing the gas elds to increase production.
BP DNR to terminate the Point Thomson Unit and remanded the matter expects remaining recoverable reserves in the West Sole and to the DNR to provide the leaseholders their constitutional due Amethyst elds to increase by around 30% as a result of this project.
process rights, including the right to a hearing.
Although the judges In October, we announced changes to the structure of the North Sea decision found that the DNRs rejection of the latest plan of operations that are intended to simplify the organization and improve development POD was supported by substantial evidence, the ruling the efficiency of work processes in response to the challenges of the reinstated the leaseholders interests in the Point Thomson leases and increasingly mature North Sea, where declining production and rapidlyunit, and instructed the DNR to consider good and diligent oil and rising costs have created business conditions that are not sustainable gas... production practices in shaping an appropriate remedy for the in the long term.
The new structure will mean fewer organizational rejected POD.
The DNR is expected to call a hearing during the first units and reduced management layers.
This will allow consolidation of quarter of 2008. onshore non-technical support activities, leading to economies of scale On 3 October 2007, the Endicott eld achieved its 20th year of and reduced complexity.
Since start-up in 1987, Endicott has produced 500mmboe.
During 2007, Endicott commenced a technology trial programme that Rest of Europe 2 is expected to progress BPs LoSal Enhanced Oil Recovery process Development expenditure excluding midstream in the Rest of Europe 2 from technology development to technology deployment.
LoSal is a was $443 million, compared with $214 million in 2006 and $188 million patented technology that utililizes geochemically specic waters to in 2005. attack the larger remaining residual oils present after conventional waterooding.
To gain partner approval for a full-eld deployment, an Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:36 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1921506806 22 Norway On 26 June 2007, BP agreed to the migration of the Cerro Negro In 2007, our total production in Norway was 56mboe d, a 15% decrease operations to an IJV without diluting its interest and signed a binding on 2006.
This decrease in production was driven by natural decline.
memorandum of understanding reecting agreement to the significant significant activities were: terms and conditions for migration to, and operation of, the IJV.
Progress on the Valhall BP 28.1% and operator redevelopment Signature of the final conversion contract, and nalization of the rest project continued during 2007.
A new platform is scheduled to of the required procedures, is expected to take place in the first become operational in 2010, with expected oil production capacity of quarterof2008.
150mb d and gas handling capacity of 175mmcf d. In June, we announced the sanction of the combined Skarv and Idun Colombia development.
This development is located in the Norwegian Sea In Colombia, BPs net production averaged 46mboe d. The reduction approximately 200 kilometres west of Sandnessjen.
The elds will be of 4mboe d compared with 2006 is mainly due to natural eld decline, developed using a Floating Production Storage and Ofoading vessel partially compensated by additional gas sales.
The main part of the FPSO, subsea wells and an 80-kilometre gas export pipeline production comes from the Cusiana, Cupiagua and Cupiagua South connecting to the Asgard Transport System.
elds, with increasing new production from the Cupiagua extension into the Recetor Association Contract and the Floren a and Pauto elds Netherlands in the Piedemonte Association Contract.
On 1 February 2007, we completed the sale of our exploration and In September, BP was awarded two offshore blocks in the Caribbean production and gas infrastructure business in the Netherlands to the Abu that cover approximately 6,200 square kilometres.
One block, RC4 BP Dhabi National Energy Company, TAQA.
This included onshore and 35% and operator, will be a joint venture with state-owned Ecopetrol offshore production assets and the onshore gas storage facility, Piek Gas and Petrobras, while BP will have sole rights to develop the other, Installatie, at Alkmaar.
In December 2006, the Colombian Congress passed new legislation to Rest of World reduce corporate income taxes from 35% to 34% in 2007 and 33% Development expenditure in Rest of World excluding midstream was in 2008.
$5,045 million in 2007, compared with $4,522 million in 2006 and After months of negotiations with Ecopetrol, agreement around $3,735 million in 2005. extension of the current association contracts was not reached.
However, new commercial agreements are in the final stages of Rest of Americas negotiation to allow partners to access new investment opportunities.
Canada In Canada, our natural gas and liquids production was 52mboe d in Argentina and Bolivia 2007, a decrease of 9% compared with 2006.
The year-on-year In Argentina and Bolivia, activity is conducted through Pan American decrease in production is mainly due to natural eld decline.
Energy PAE, in which BP holds a 60% interest, and which is In January 2008, we sanctioned the Noel Cadomin sweet gas project.
accounted for by the equity method since it is jointly controlled.
In A total of 130 wells are planned to be drilled with first production 2007, total PAE gross production of 264mboe d represented an expected in 2009. increase of 1% over 2006.
This increase came from the continued The Mist Mountain coalbed gas project is in the appraisal stage, which focus on drilling in Golfo San Jorge in Argentina.
The eld is now is expected to last for a number of years.
The purpose of this stage is producing at its highest level since inception in 1958 and further to assess the viability of coalbed gas production in British Columbias expansion programmes are planned.
PAE also has interests in gas Crowsnest coaleld by proving technologies and practices that will pipelines, electricity generation plants and other midstream allow for the design of an environmentally sustainable commercial infrastructure assets.
We are seeking British Columbia government approval to On 27 April, PAE entered into an agreement with the Argentine access public land for this project.
province of Chubut, which provides for the concession term extension On 5 December 2007, BP announced it had signed a memorandum of and includes certain investment commitments related to exploration understanding with Husky Energy Inc. to form an integrated North and production on the Cerro Drago n block, located in Golfo San Jorge American oil sands business.
The transaction is expected to be basin.
On 25 June, PAE signed a similar agreement with Santa Cruz completed by the end of March 2008. province.
These are the first agreements entered into to extend the term of concessions in Argentina, and were formalized under the Trinidad framework established by a law recently passed by the Argentine In Trinidad, natural gas production volumes increased by 7.5% to Congress that will allow PAE to undertake long-term projects.
The increase was delivered as a result of On 13 July, PAE signed a loan agreement with the International improved operating efficiency leading to increased throughput for Finance Corporation IFC for the amount of $550 million.
This loan will Atlantic LNG Train 4, increased demand from the domestic market, be used to finance a programme of capital investment in the Cerro full ramp up of the Cannonball eld and the start-up of two new elds Drago n block in Argentina.
The last tranche will mature in April 2018. in 2007.
Liquids production declined by 10mb d 25% to 30mb d in On 2 May, following notarization, the new agreements entered into by 2007 from 40mb d in 2006 as a result of the natural decline from high PAE and other oil and gas companies with Yacimientos Petroliferos condensate elds.
Fiscales Bolivianos YPFB in Bolivia in November 2006 became The Mango and Cashima elds reached first gas on 17 November effective.
These agreements are intended to run until 31 December 2007 and 15 December 2007 respectively.
Mango and Cashima were 2026 and establish the commitment assumed by each of the designed and built in Trinidad using a standardized design with 85% of companies to supply the Bolivian domestic gas market.
YPFB will be fabrication hours and 65% of project management hours contributed responsible for marketing all hydrocarbons produced in Bolivia and for by local Trinidad workers.
determining the terms of relevant gas sales contracts.
Along with these changes, the volumes that Chaco an exploration and production Venezuela company operated in Bolivia owned 50% by PAE and 50% by YPFB, In Venezuela, due to the transition to the incorporated joint venture 30% BP net is allowed to export have been signicantly increased IJV entities in accordance with Venezuelan regulations that came into resulting in higher overall gas sales realizations for Chaco.
force in 2006, 2007 was the first full year of reduced interest.
As a In a continuation of changes made to the export tax since its inception result of the aforementioned, and the OPEC quotas, our 2007 liquids in 2002, the Argentine government issued a resolution in November production decreased by 10mb d compared with 2006.
2007 increasing the export tax rate on oil when the international crude oil price is US$60.9 bbl or higher.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:36 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1518432450 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 23 Africa In Egypt, the Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company GUPCO BP 50%, a Algeria joint venture operating company between BP and the Egyptian BP, through its joint operatorships of the In Salah Gas 33.15% and In General Petroleum Corporation EGPC, carries out our operated oil Amenas 12.50% projects, supplied 83bcf BP net of gas to markets and gas production operations.
GUPCO operates eight PSAs in the in Algeria and southern Europe during 2007, an increase of 33% from Gulf of Suez and Western Desert and one PSA in the Mediterranean 2006 due to the ramp up of In Amenas during 2007.
The CO capture Sea, encompassing a total of more than 40 elds.
2 system, part of the In Salah project, is one of the worlds largest CO Progress continued on the Saqqara eld BP 100% development 2 capture projects.
project, with first production expected in 2008.
Progress continued on the Egypt Gas Phase 1 Taurt BP 50% Angola development project, with first production expected in 2008.
In Angola, BP net production in 2007 was 139mboe d, an increase of In January 2007, BP drilled a successful well, Giza North-1, in the 5% from 2006 due to the start up of the Greater Plutonio, Marimba North Alexandria concession BP 60% and operator held by BP, RWE and Rosa elds, and the ramp up of Dalia, more than offsetting PSA DEA and EGPC The Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company EGAS.
changes in the Kizomba A, Kizomba B and Girassol elds.
The Giza North-1 was drilled in 668 metres of water, some 56 The first lifting from the Dalia eld BP 16.67% was achieved during kilometres offshore in the Pliocene formation where BP has made the first quarter of 2007, with gross eld production ramping up to three previous discoveries.
The Dalia eld was discovered in 1997.
In May 2007, BP drilled a successful well, Taurus Deep, in the North It entered project execution phase in the first half of 2003 and Alexandria A Concession BP 60% and operator held by BP, RWE production began on 13 December 2006.
The Taurus Deep well was drilled in approximately During the second quarter, the Rosa project BP 16.67% achieved 400 metres of water, some 70 kilometres offshore, and is in the first production.
Discovered in January 1998, some 135 kilometres off Middle Miocene formation.
the coast of Angola in water depths of approximately 1,350 metres, In January 2008, BP nished drilling a successful well, Satis-1, in the the Rosa eld is located 15 kilometres away from the Girassol FPSO North El Burg offshore concession BP 50% and operator held by BP, to which it is tied back.
It is the first deepwater eld of this size to be IEOC and EGAS.
The Satis-1 well was drilled in approximately 90 tied back to such a remote installation and in such water depths.
Rosa metres of water, some 50 kilometres offshore, and is in the Oligocene is expected to maintain the FPSOs production capacity above formation.
250mb d until early in the next decade.
In December 2007, BP had first production from the Denise eld Oil production at the Greater Plutonio offshore development area in where it holds a 50% interest.
The five elds making up the Greater Plutonio development were discovered between 1999 and 2001 in Libya water depths of up to 1,450 metres and it is the first BP-operated In May, BP and its partner, the Libyan Investment Corporation LIC asset in Angola BP 50% and operator.
The development utilizes an signed a major exploration and production agreement with Libyas FPSO connected to the wells by a large subsea system.
The subsea National Oil Company.
The initial exploration commitment is set at a system is expected to ultimately encompass 43 wells and the longest minimum of $900 million with significant appraisal and development single-riser tower system of its kind in the world.
Many components expenditures dependent on exploration success.
BP and the LIC will of the project were constructed in Angola including the worlds largest explore over 53,000 square kilometres of the onshore Ghadames and Caternary Anchor Leg Mooring CALM buoy.
Successful exploration could lead to the In October, production commenced from the Marimba North project drilling of around 20 appraisal wells.
The agreement was ratied by BP 26.67%, in Block 15.
The eld is in approximately 1,300 metres the Libyan General Peoples Council on 23 December.
of water more than 145 kilometres off the coast of Angola.
The Asia Pacic Marimba North project is a tie-back to the Kizomba A development.
The Marimba North production and control facilities have been Indonesia integrated with the existing Kizomba A development to effectively and BP produces crude oil and supplies natural gas to the island of Java cost efficiently utilize the existing eld facilities.
Start-up of the eld through its holding in the Offshore Northwest Java PSA BP 46%.
In was achieved safely without any production impact to the Kizomba A 2007, BP net production was 39mboe d, a decrease of 8.8% from operations.
43mboe d in 2006 as a result of a  base decline, In the ultra deepwater Block 31 there were three exploration unplanned losses and the impact of higher realizations on the PSA.
successes, Miranda, Cordelia and Portia, bringing the total for Block During 2007, development continued on the Tangguh LNG project BP 31 to 15.
The Miranda well is located in a water depth of 37.2% and operator.
The project development includes offshore approximately 2,436 metres, some 375 kilometres northwest of platforms, pipelines and an LNG plant with two production trains.
The Cordelia well is located in a water depth of approximately commercial delivery is expected in early 2009.
2,308 metres, some 371 kilometres northwest of Luanda.
The Portia well is located in a water depth of approximately 2,012 metres, some Vietnam 386 kilometres northwest of Luanda.
BP participates in one of the countrys largest projects with foreign In August, the Pazor Project in Angola Block 17 BP 16.67% was investment, the Nam Con Son gas project.
This is an integrated sanctioned.
Pazor will be a standalone FPSO development, the third resource and infrastructure project, including offshore gas production, major production hub in Block 17, and is expected to deliver first oil in a pipeline transportation system and power plant.
The development will be based on a new-build FPSO with natural gas production was 82mmcf d gross, a decrease of 15% over subsea wells, rigid owlines and subsea processing.
This decrease was mainly due to higher supply from another In January 2008, production began at the Mondo eld BP 26.67% in gas eld brought onstream in late 2006.
Gas sales from Block 6.1 BP Block 15.
Located in water depths of approximately 800 metres, the 35% and operator are made under a long-term agreement for eld utilizes an FPSO and has a total of 36 subsea wells.
electricity generation in Vietnam, including the Phu My Phase 3 power plant BP 33.3%.
Egypt In Egypt, BP net production was 97mboe d, an increase of 10% from China 88mboe d in 2006.
This increase was mainly due to an increase in the In 2007, natural gas production was 85mmcf d BP net, a decrease of number of producing wells and the benefit of full-year production from 17% over 2006.
This decrease was mainly due to the closure of a producing wells drilled in 2006.
Rate Acceleration Agreement with a key customer at the end of 2006.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:36 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1811883697 24 The Yacheng offshore gas eld BP 34.3% supplies, under a longPetroleum and up to 25% of ESGCo in the event that a strategic term contract, 100% of the natural gas requirement of Castle Peak business alliance is subsequently established with OAO Gazprom.
Power Company, which provides around 50% of Hong Kongs In November 2006, following a review of the results of an inspection electricity.
Some natural gas is also piped to Hainan Island, where it is by the licensing authorities that had resulted in a request for the sold to the Fuel and Chemical Company of Hainan, also under a longrevocation of the two licences held by TNK-BP subsidiary Rospan term contract.
International, an agreed rectification plan was put in place.
All the In March, the National Peoples Congress reduced the rate of Rospan licence compliance issues arising from the inspection by the corporation tax from 33% to 25% with effect from 1 January 2008. licensing authorities in 2006 are now substantially resolved.
Australia Sakhalin In Australia, BP net gas production in 2007 was 376mmcf d, an BPparticipatesinthe KV  increase of 3.3% from 2006 due to increased domestic gas demand in conducts exploration activities through Elvaryneftegas BP 49%, an Western Australia.
BP net liquids production at 34mb d remained equity-accounted joint venture with Rosneft.
Two discoveries have unchanged from 2006. been made to date in the KV licence area.
BP also participates in joint BP is one of seven partners in the North West Shelf NWS venture.
operations in two licence areas with Rosneft in East and West Shmidt Six partners including BP hold an equal 16.7% interest in the BP 49%.
infrastructure and oil reserves and an equal 15.8% interest in the gas Exploratory drilling continued in 2007 with the drilling of two wells in and condensate reserves with a seventh partner owning the the West Shmidt licence area.
Both wells were found to be dry and, remaining 5.32% of gas and condensate reserves.
The operation as a result, BP wrote off all expenditures related to the West Shmidt covers offshore production platforms, an FPSO, trunklines and licence area.
The NWS venture is currently the The 2008 work programme for the Sakhalin licence includes seismic principal supplier to the domestic market in Western Australia.
During re-processing in the East Shmidt licence area and a 2D seismic 2007, progress continued on the construction of a fifth LNG train acquisition programme in the KV licence area.
No drilling is planned 4.7 million tonnes per year design capacity, with first throughput for 2008. expected in the second half of 2008.
Other Russia Azerbaijan TNK-BP In Azerbaijan, BP net production in 2007 was 218mboe d, an increase TNK-BP, a joint venture between BP 50% and Alfa Group and of 50% from 2006 due to the ramping up of three Azeri oil producing Access-Renova AAR 50%, is an integrated oil company operating in platforms and the Shah Deniz condensate gas platform commencing Russia and the Ukraine.
The TNK-BP groups major assets are held in production in 2007.
Other assets include the BP-branded retail BP, as operator of the Azerbaijan International Operating Company sites in Moscow and the Moscow region and interests in OAO Rusia AIOC, manages and has a 34.1% interest in the  and the OAO Slavneft group.
The workforce comprises Gunashli ACG oil elds in the Caspian Sea, offshore Azerbaijan.
Phase 3 of the project, which will develop the deepwater Gunashli BPs investment in TNK-BP is held by the Exploration and Production area of ACG, remains on schedule to begin production in 2008 with segment and the results of TNK-BP are accounted for under the platform topsides having been completed in September 2007. equity method in this segment.
BP is the operator of Shah Deniz BP 25.5%, which is in the TNK-BP has proved reserves of 6.9 billion barrels of oil equivalent Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea and will deliver gas to markets in including its 49.9% equity share of Slavneft, of which 4.5 billion are Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
First gas to Turkey was achieved in developed.
In 2007, TNK-BPs average liquids production was July 2007.
Production from the eld is expected to continue to ramp 1.7mmboe d, a decrease of just over 5% compared with 2006, up as further wells are brought onstream.
Plateau production from reecting the disposal of the Udmurt asset in 2006.
The production Stage 1 is expected to be 6.9 billion cubic metres of gas per annum base is largely centred in West Siberia Samotlor, Nyagan and and approximately 30,000 barrels of condensate per day.
Megion, which contributes about 1.2mmboe d, together with Volga In November, we announced a further major new gas-condensate Urals Orenburg contributing some 0.4mmboe d. About 44% of total discovery in the Shah Deniz eld in the Caspian Sea.
The SDX-04 oil production is currently exported as crude oil and 19% as rened exploration and appraisal well, some 70 kilometres south-east of Baku, product.
discovered a new deeper structure below the currently producing Downstream, TNK-BP has interests in six reneries in Russia and the reservoir.
Drilled to a Caspian-record depth of more than 7,300 metres Ukraine including Ryazan and Lisichansk and Slavnefts Yaroslavl in the south-western part of Shah Deniz, the well encountered gas renery, with throughput of approximately 35 million tonnes per year.
condensate in the main target horizons extending the eld to the During December 2007, TNK-BP agreed to purchase additional retail south.
The well also discovered a new high pressure reservoir in a and other downstream assets in Russia and the Ukraine from a deeper structure.
number of small companies with completion due in 2008.
TNK-BP supplies approximately 1,600 branded lling stations in Russia and the Middle East and south Asia Ukraine and, with the additional sites, is expected to have more than Production in the Middle East consists principally of the production 20% market share of the Moscow retail market.
entitlement of associates in Abu Dhabi, where we have equity In January 2007, TNK-BP announced the purchase of Occidentals interests of 9.5% and 14.7% in onshore and offshore concessions 50% interest in the West Siberian joint venture, Vanyoganneft, for respectively.
In 2007, BPs share of production in Abu Dhabi was $485 million.
The transaction closed during the first quarter of 2007 192mb d, down 3% from 2006 as a result of a major planned and TNK-BP now owns 100% of the Vanyoganneft asset.
maintenance shutdown in the offshore concession in the fourth On 22 June, BP and TNK-BP signed heads of terms to create strategic quarterof2007.
business alliances with OAO Gazprom.
Under the terms of this In Pakistan, BP doubled its equity in the onshore Badin asset BP agreement, TNK-BP agreed to sell to Gazprom its 62.89% stake in 84% as part of an international asset exchange with Occidental.
As a OAO Rusia Petroleum, the company that owns the licence for the result of this transaction, BP net oil production in 2007 was Kovykta gas condensate eld in East Siberia and its 50% interest in 6.3mboe d, an increase of 24% from 2006, and BP net gas production East Siberia Gas Company ESGCo.
BP and TNK-BP have an option to was 122mmcf d, an increase of 39.4% from 2006. repurchase on market terms up to 25% 1 share in OAO Rusia In the third quarter of 2007, BP signed a farm-in agreement with Petroleum Exploration Private Limited to obtain a 33% participating Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:37 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -847546308 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 25 interest in Blocks P, J and O in the deepwater Indus basin offshore That portion of the challenges led by the State, Anadarko and Tesoro Pakistan.
relating to the TAPS Strategic Reconguration project costs, together In January 2007, BP signed a major PSA with the Sultanate of Oman with all aspects of the 2007 challenges, are being held in abeyance by to appraise sour tight gas reservoirs in Block 61.
Major contracts the FERC until its decision on 2005 and 2006 rates is issued.
There were awarded in November with 3D seismic planned to commence in have been no proceedings in the recently led challenges to BPs the first quarter of 2008 and drilling in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The FERCs hearings on the consolidated full appraisal programme is expected to take up to six years.
proceedings commenced in October 2006 and concluded in January In September, BP signed a memorandum of understanding with Oil 2007.
On 17 May 2007, a FERC Administrative Law Judge issued an and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd of India regarding co-operation in Initial Decision as to 2005 and 2006 rates.
This Initial Decision, which coalbed methane and deepwater offshore exploration.
was adverse to BP and the other TAPS carriers, is now under consideration by the FERC Commissioners, who will issue the Midstream activities decision of the FERC.
Pending the decision of the FERC Oil and natural gas transportation Commissioners, BP is continuing to collect its TSM-based interstate The group has direct or indirect interests in certain crude oil tariffs: however, our tariffs are subject to refund depending on the transportation systems, the principal ones being the Trans Alaska decision of the FERC.
Interstate transport makes up roughly 93% of Pipeline System TAPS in the US and the Forties Pipelines System FPS total TAPS throughput.
in the UK sector of the North Sea.
We also operate the Central Area Transmission System CATS for natural gas in the UK sector of the North Sea North Sea.
FPS BP 100% is an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and BP, as operator, manages and holds a 30.1% interest in the Bakuprocessing system that handles production from more than 50 elds Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC oil pipeline.
BP, as operator of AIOC, also operates in the Central North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than 1 the Western Export Route Pipeline between Azerbaijan and the Black million barrels per day, with average throughput in 2007 at 653mb d. Sea coast of Georgia and the Azeri leg of the Northern Export Route The tie-in of the Buzzard eld was completed, with first Buzzard Pipeline between Azerbaijan and Russia.
Revenue is earned on pipelines production owing through the system in January 2007.
The Greater through charging tariffs.
Kittiwake Area also joined the system in late 2007.
BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related BP operates and has a 29.5% interest in CATS, a 400-kilometre transportation assets are included under Rening and Marketing see natural gas pipeline system in the central UK sector of the North Sea.
The pipeline has a transportation capacity of 1,700mmcf d to a natural Assets and activity during 2007 included: gas terminal at Teesside in north-east England.
CATS offers natural gas transportation and processing services.
In 2007, throughput was Alaska 778mmcf d gross, 230mmcf d net.
During September, the CATS BP owns a 46.9% interest in TAPS, with the balance owned by four pipeline resumed operation after divers installed a metal sleeve at the other companies.
Production transported by TAPS from Alaska North location where a large vessel had dragged its anchor causing damage Slope elds averaged 738mb d during 2007. to the pipeline.
The pipeline was shutdown for 10 weeks resulting in a Work on the strategic reconguration project to upgrade and automate loss of production of 11mboe d for the year.
four pump stations continued to progress during 2007.
This project BP operates the Dimlington Easington gas processing terminal BP will install electrically-driven pumps at four critical pump stations, 100% on Humberside and the Sullom Voe oil and gas terminal in combined with increased automation and upgraded control systems.
Two of the recongured pump stations came online during 2007, one in the first quarter and another in the fourth quarter.
The remaining Asia including the former Soviet Union two recongured pump stations are expected to come online BP, as operator, manages and holds a 30.1% interest in the BTC oil sequentially in 2009 and 2010. pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline has a capacity of 1mmboe d There are a number of unresolved challenges lodged by instate from the BP-operated ACG oil eld in the Caspian Sea to the eastern reners, Tesoro and Flint Hills, against BP and the other TAPS carriers, Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
In the first quarter of 2007, the BTC regarding intrastate tariffs charged for shipping oil through TAPS.
pipeline celebrated the loading of its 100-millionth barrel at the Ceyhan These challenges were led between 1986 and 2003 with the terminal and loaded its 250th tanker in October 2007.
Regulatory Commission of Alaska RCA.
In 2002, the RCA Transportation of first gas to Turkey from Shah Deniz in Azerbaijan via determined that TAPS transportation rates charged since the the South Caucasus Pipeline was achieved in July 2007.
BP is beginning of 1997 have been excessive and that refunds should be technical operator and holds a 25.5% interest.
Proceedings relating to transportation charges covering the Through the LukArco joint venture, BP holds a 5.75% interest with a period between 1986 and mid-2003, including an appeal by BP and the 25% funding obligation in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium CPC other TAPS carriers of the RCAs 2002 determination, are progressing pipeline.
CPC is a 1,510-kilometre pipeline from Kazakhstan to the through the Alaska judicial system.
No significant refunds have been Russian port of Novorossiysk and carries crude oil from the Tengiz paid pending the resolution of these matters in the courts.
In addition to our interest in LukArco, we hold a interim, the RCA has imposed intrastate rates effective from 1 July separate 0.87% interest 3.5% funding obligation in CPC through a 2003 that are consistent with its 2002 order.
Intrastate transport 49% holding in Kazakhstan Pipeline Ventures.
In 2007, CPC total makes up roughly 7% of total TAPS throughput.
During 2007, shareholders Tariffs for interstate and intrastate transportation on TAPS are agreed to restore the profitability of CPC by increasing the CPC tariff calculated using the RCA and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and cutting interest rates on shareholder loans.
Negotiations FERCaccepted TAPS Settlement Methodology TSM entered into continued between the CPC shareholders on an expansion plan and a with the State of Alaska in 1985.
The State of Alaska, Anadarko and plan for financial restructuring.
The expansion would require the Tesoro have challenged BPs and the other TAPS carriers 2005, 2006 construction of 10 additional pump stations, additional storage and 2007 interstate tariffs with the FERC, and the State of Alaska and facilities and a third offshore mooring point.
Anadarko have challenged BPs and the other TAPS carriers 2008 tariffs with the FERC.
The challengers assert that the interstate Liqueed natural gas transportation rates charged by BP in accordance with the TSM and Within BP, Exploration and Production is responsible for the supply of the other TAPS carriers, are excessive and discriminatory and in LNG.
BPs Exploration and Production segment has interests in four major LNG plants: the Atlantic LNG plant in Trinidad BP 34% in Train 1, violation of the Interstate Commerce Act, and that costs related to the TAPS Strategic Reconguration project were imprudently incurred.
42.5% in each of Trains 2 and 3 and 37.8% in Train 4 : in Indonesia, Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:37 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 770489094 26 through our interests in the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38%, which supplies trains, with commercial delivery planned in early 2009.
Tangguh will natural gas to the Bontang LNG plant, and Tangguh PSA BP 37.2%, be the third LNG centre in Indonesia, with an initial capacity of 7.6 which is under construction: and in Australia through our share of LNG million tonnes 388,000mmcf per year.
Tangguh has signed sales from the NWS natural gas development BP 16.7% infrastructure and oil contracts for delivery to China, Korea and North Americas west coast.
reserves and 15.8% gas and condensate reserves.
In Australia, we are one of seven partners in the NWS venture.
Six Assets and activity during 2007 included: partners including BP hold an equal 16.7% interest in the In Trinidad, the Atlantic LNG Train 4 BP 37.8% is the largest infrastructure and oil reserves and an equal 15.78% interest in the gas producing LNG train in the world and is designed to produce 5.2 and condensate reserves, with a seventh partner owning the million tonnes 253,000mmcf per year of LNG.
BP expects to remaining 5.32% of gas and condensate reserves.
The joint venture continue to supply at least two-thirds of the gas to the train.
The operation covers offshore production platforms, an FPSO, trunklines, Atlantic LNG Trains 2, 3, and 4 facilities are operated under a tolling onshore gas and LNG processing plants and LNG carriers.
arrangement, with the equity owners retaining ownership of their Construction continued during 2007 on a fifth LNG train that is respective gas.
The LNG is sold in the US, Dominican Republic and expected to process 4.7 million tonnes of LNG per year and is other destinations.
BPs net share of the capacity of Atlantic LNG expected to increase the plants capacity to 16.6 million tonnes per Trains 1, 2, 3 and 4 is 6.5 million tonnes 310,000mmcf of LNG per year.
The train is expected to be commissioned during the second half year.
NWS produced 1.96 million tonnes 102,000mmcf of LNG, In Indonesia, BP is involved in two of the three LNG centres in the equal to 2006 production.
BP participates in Indonesias LNG exports through its We have a 10% equity shareholding in the Abu Dhabi Gas holdings in the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38%.
Sanga-Sanga currently Liquefaction Company, which in 2007 supplied 5.6 million tonnes delivers around 14% of the total gas feed to Bontang, one of the 272,710mmcf of LNG, up 4.2% on 2006. worlds largest LNG plants.
The Bontang plant produced 18.4 million BP has a 13.6% share in the Angola LNG project, which is expected tonnes 831,000mmcf of LNG in 2007, compared with 19.5 million to receive approximately one billion cubic feet of associated gas per tonnes in 2006. day from offshore producing blocks and produce 5.2 million tonnes Also in Indonesia, BP has interests in the Tangguh LNG joint venture per year of LNG, as well as related gas liquids products, with first LNG BP 37.2% and operator and in each of the Wiriagar BP 38% and expected in 2012.
With the completion of the necessary agreements operator, Berau BP 48% and operator and Muturi BP 1% PSAs in and the approval of the Angolan government, the project investors north-west Papua that are expected to supply feed gas to the have authorized Angola LNG Limited to proceed with the construction Tangguh LNG plant.
During 2007, construction continued on two and implementation of the project.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:37 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1149751297 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 27 technology at several reneries globally, the site reconguration and Rening and Marketing installation of a new hydrocracker at the Bayernoil renery in Germany and the full recommissioning of the Texas City renery in the US.
Our Rening and Marketing business is responsible for the supply and Our marketing businesses generate customer value by providing trading, rening, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude quality products and offers.
Our retail network provides differentiated fuel oil, petroleum and chemicals products to wholesale and retail customers.
and convenience offers to some of the most attractive markets.
Our BP markets its products in more than 100 countries.
We operate lubricants brands offer customers benets through technology and primarily in Europe and North America but also manufacture and market relationships and we focus on increasing brand and product loyalty in our products across Australasia and in parts of Asia, Africa and Central Castrol lubricants.
We continue to build deep customer relationships and and South America.
strategic partnerships in the business-to-business sector.
profit before interest and tax from The segment manages a portfolio of assets that we believe are a continuing operations 6,072 5,041 6,926 competitively advantaged across the chain of downstream activities.
Total assets 95,691 80,964 77,485 Such advantage may derive from several factors, including location such Capital expenditure and acquisitions 5,586 3,144 2,860 as the proximity of manufacturing assets to markets, operating cost and $ per barrel physical asset quality.
We have significant retail and businessProfit before interest and tax from continuing operations includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
to-business market positions in the US, UK, Germany and the rest of b The Global Indicator Refining Margin GIM is the average of regional industry Europe, Australasia, Africa and Asia.
We are enhancing our presence in indicator margins, which we weight for BPs crude refining capacity in each region.
China and exploring opportunities in India.
Each regional indicator margin is based on a single representative crude with product yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity.
The During 2007, significant events were: refining margins are industry-specific rather than BP-specific measures, which we BP continued recommissioning the Texas City renery in the US.
By believe are useful to investors in analyzing trends in the industry and their impact the end of 2007, we had successfully recommissioned the three on our results.
The margins are calculated by BP based on published crude oil and product prices and take account of fuel utilization and catalyst costs.
No account is desulphurization and upgrading units necessary to allow restart of the taken of BPs other cash and non-cash costs of refining, such as wages and salaries remaining crude distillation capacity.
The final sour crude unit is and plant depreciation.
The indicator margin may not be representative of the mechanically complete and is expected to be fully operational during margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refining configurations and crude and product slate.
By mid-2008, we expect most of the economic capability at the Texas City renery to have been restored.
The key components of sales and other operating revenues are explained On 23 March 2007, a re at the Whiting renery in the US caused in more detail below.
By the end of 2007, the Whiting renery had 2007 2006 2005 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ recommenced sour crude processing and available distillation capacity Sale of crude oil through spot and exceeded 300,000b d. term contracts 43,004 38,577 36,992 On 1 February 2007, BP announced it had selected the University of Marketing, spot and term sales of California Berkeley, and its partners the University of Illinois at Urbanarened products 194,979 177,995 155,098 Champaign and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, to join in Other sales including non-oil and to the previously announced $500-million research programme to explore other segments 12,883 16,283 21,236 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ how bioscience can be used to increase energy production and reduce 250,866 232,855 213,326 the impact of energy consumption on the environment.
The acquisition included Chevrons 31% interest in the Marketing, spot and term sales of Rotterdam Nerefco renery.
rened products 5,624 5,801 5,888 On 31 May 2007, BP completed the sale of its Coryton renery in the UK to Petroplus Holdings AG for consideration of $1.4 billion, plus The Rening and Marketing segment includes Rening, Fuels Marketing, working capital.
Our strategy is to continue our On 26 June 2007, BP, Associated British Foods and DuPont focused investment in key assets and market positions with an increased announced an investment of $400 million in the construction of a focus on process safety, integrity and reliability following the operational world-scale bioethanol plant with expected annual production capacity issues at the Texas City and Whiting reneries.
We aim to improve the of some 420 million litres from wheat feedstock, expected to be quality and capability of our manufacturing portfolio.
During the past five commissioned in late 2009. years, this has been taking place through upgrades of existing conversion On 29 June 2007, BP announced a joint venture with D1 Oils plc, a units at several of our facilities and investment in new clean fuels units at UK-based global producer of biodiesel, for the development of most of our reneries.
In 2007, we completed a major upgrade to the jatropha as a new energy crop.
olen cracker at the Gelsenkirchen renery in Germany and an upgrade On 15 November 2007, BP announced that it would sell all of its of an existing diesel hydrotreater at the Rotterdam renery in the company-owned and company-operated convenience sites in the US.
During the next five years, we expect to upgrade further The majority of sites will be sold to franchisees with the remaining our rening portfolio through the construction of a new coker at the sites sold to dealers and large distributors jobbers.
The sale of the Castellon renery, a planned and announced investment in the Whiting sites is expected to be completed by the end of 2009.
The sites will renery to increase its ability to process Canadian heavy crude, upgrades continue to market BP-branded fuels in the eastern US and ARCOto diesel and gasoline desulphurization capability at the Rotterdam branded fuels in the western US.
The franchise agreement is for 20 renery in the Netherlands, the installation of modern naphtha reforming Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:37 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1399493954 28 years and requires sites to be supplied with BP or ARCO-branded federal court, pursuant to the plea agreement, to one felony violation of fuels for the term of the contract.
the risk management planning regulations promulgated under the US In December 2007, the second PTA plant at the BP Zhuhai Chemical federal Clean Air Act.
At the plea hearing, the court advised that it would Company Limited site in Guangdong province, China, successfully take the matter under review and decide whether to accept or reject the commenced commissioning.
If the court accepts the agreement, BP Products will pay a On 5 December 2007, BP announced it had agreed to create an $50 million criminal ne and serve three years probation.
Separately, BP integrated North American oil sands business with Husky Energy Inc. Products reached a civil settlement in principle with the EPA and the by means of two separate joint ventures.
In one, BP will take a 50% DOJ related to issues identied in EPA inspections that followed the interest in Husky Energys Sunrise eld in Alberta, Canada, while in March 2005 incident.
BP expects the settlement to be nalized in 2008. the other, Husky will take a 50% interest in BPs Toledo renery, The CSB issued its final report on the Texas City incident in March between them forming an integrated North American oil sands 2007.
Although BP disagreed with some of the findings and conclusions business.
As part of this agreement, and subject to negotiation of final in the report, BP gave full and careful consideration to the CSBs agreements and obtaining the necessary approvals and permits, the recommendations and committed to implement actions in alignment Toledo renery is intended to be expanded to process approximately with each of the CSBs recommendations.
BP has many activities under 170mb d of heavy oil and bitumen by 2015. way, including activities around reporting health and safety and BP continued to progress the planning for the previously mentioned operational incidents, and incident investigation, in response to the investment in Canadian heavy crude oil processing capability at its recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Whiting renery.
This project is expected to reposition Whiting Panel the panel see below to improve process safety, both at Texas competitively as a top-tier renery by increasing its Canadian heavy City as recommended by the CSB and across the group.
BP and the crude processing capability by 260mb d and modernizing it with CSB continue to discuss BPs responses with the objective of the CSB equipment of significant size and scale.
agreeing to close out its recommendations.
In mid-January 2008, BP and Sinopec signed a memorandum of understanding to add a new 650ktepa acetic acid plant at their Civil tort actions YARACO joint venture in Chongqing, upstream Yangtze River, southA large number of civil claims have arisen from the Texas City incident, west China.
This world-scale acetic acid plant, using BPs leading for which BP has set aside $2,125 million in aggregate.
Thus far, BP has 2 Cativa technology, is expected to come onstream in 2011. reached more than 2,000 settlements in respect of all the fatalities and many of the personal injury claims arising from the incident.
A number of Resegmentation in 2008 claims remain to be resolved.
With effect from 1 January 2008: See Legal proceedings on page 84 for further information.
The Emerging Consumers Marketing Unit was transferred from Rening and Marketing to Alternative Energy which is reported in Report of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel Other businesses and corporate.
The panel was established by BP in 2005 at the recommendation of the The Biofuels business was transferred from Rening and Marketing to CSB to assess the effectiveness of safety management systems at BPs Alternative Energy which is reported in Other businesses and five US reneries and the corporate safety culture.
The panel, which was corporate.
chaired by the former US Secretary of State, James A Baker, III, issued The Shipping business was transferred from Rening and Marketing its report in January 2007.
Although the panel did not specically to Other businesses and corporate.
investigate the Texas City incident or seek to determine its causes, the report contained observations applicable to all of BPs US reneries, Texas City renery including Texas City.
The panels report acknowledged the measures On 23 March 2005, an explosion and re at the Texas City renery taken by BP since the Texas City incident, including dedicating significant occurred in the isomerization unit as the unit was starting up after routine resources and personnel in an effort to improve the process safety planned maintenance.
The incident claimed the lives of 15 workers and performance of BPs US reneries.
The panels report can be found at injured many others.
BP accepted the 10 recommendations Throughout 2007, BP continued to implement the process safety of the panel and began or, in some cases, continued improvement enhancement programme it initiated in response to the March 2005 activities addressing a number of the recommendations, including incident, which included policies, practices and activities to address a consistent implementation of risk identication tools, improvements in number of the factors that contributed to the incident, including the siting incident reporting and investigation systems, and enhancements to the of occupied portable buildings and the removal of blow-down stacks groups reporting and monitoring programmes.
At the panels handling heavier-than-air light hydrocarbons.
BP also implemented, recommendation, in May 2007, the BP board also appointed an across its US rening system and at other facilities worldwide, a number independent expert to monitor progress in implementing the panels of additional actions relating to safety and operations, atmospheric relief recommendations to improve safety performance at BPs US reneries.
valves, operating procedures and training, control of work systems, and The independent expert, L. Duane Wilson, who was a member of the process safety culture and leadership.
In the US, BP has committed to panel, reports directly to the BP boards safety, ethics and environment increase spending to an average of $1.7 billion per year through 2010 to assurance committee.
improve the integrity and reliability of its rening assets and has created In addition to these direct responses to the panels recommendations, an operations advisory board to assist BP America Inc. s management in BP has also taken a number of additional steps that are in line with the monitoring and assessing BPs US operations.
spirit of the panels report.
BP has developed a comprehensive programme to implement the panels recommendations within its US Governmental investigations rening system and to share learnings from the panel throughout the In 2007, BP continued its co-operation with the governmental entities rening system.
This programme makes use of the newly developed investigating the Texas City incident, including the US Department of group-wide operating management system OMS.
Each renery is Justice DOJ, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA, the US creating an implementation plan to reduce process safety risk on a Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA, the US Chemical continuous improvement basis and to provide for the future Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB and the Texas Commission implementation of OMS.
In 2007, BP also reached an agreement in on Environmental Quality TCEQ.
On 25 October 2007, the DOJ principle with the United Steel Workers Union to work jointly on a announced that it had entered into a criminal plea agreement with BP 10-point plan to improve process safety across the four represented Products North America Inc. BP Products related to the March 2005 US reneries.
On 4 February 2008, BP Products pleaded guilty in Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:37 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 966206354 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 29 Other regulatory actions investigation in October 2007 and informed BP that no citations would be OSHA issued to it.
In January 2007, OSHA began a new inspection at the Texas City renery In January 2008, an employee died at Texas City renery.
This incident focusing on relief valves, are capacity and other process safety issues at is currently being investigated by BP, OSHA and the CSB.
one of the catalytic cracking units.
OSHA issued citations in July 2007 with a total penalty of $92,000.
Separately, OSHA has questioned EPA whether the process safety management expert AcuTech, appointed in The EPA has asked the DOJ to le a civil lawsuit based on inspections it connection with the September 2005 settlement agreement with OSHA, conducted at the Whiting, Toledo, Cherry Point and Carson reneries adequately reviewed equipment pressure relief valve issues.
BP has following the March 2005 Texas City incident.
BP Products and the EPA entered into negotiations to resolve the cracking unit citations and, in the DOJ have begun settlement negotiations in an effort to avoid litigation of interim, has agreed to the assignment of this case to a settlement judge.
On 16 January 2008, BP addressed OSHAs concerns regarding the Rening September 2005 settlement agreement by agreeing to retain an expert relief system consultant to audit individual hydrocarbon relief devices and The groups global rening strategy is to own and operate strategically are systems on two units and to share the consultants findings with advantaged reneries that benefit from vertical integration with our OSHA.
marketing and trading operations, as well as horizontal integration with In September 2007, BP and OSHA entered into a settlement other parts of the groups business.
Renings focus is to maintain and agreement related to citations stemming from OSHAs inspection of the improve its competitive position through sustainable, safe, reliable and Toledo renery in 2005.
OSHA granted final approval of the settlement in efficient operations of the rening system and disciplined investment for November 2007. growth.
BP is attempting to negotiate a settlement relating to citations, with a For BP, the strategic advantage of a renery relates to its location, total penalty of $384,000, stemming from Indiana OSHAs inspection of scale and conguration to produce fuels from lower-cost feedstocks in the Whiting renery in 2006, but the case is still pending.
In August line with the demand of the region.
Strategic investments in our 2007, Indiana OSHA initiated a separate inspection relating to an April reneries are focused on securing the safety and reliability of our assets 2007 incident that resulted in a crude unit shutdown and the release of while improving our competitive position.
In addition, we continue to 40,000 pounds of hydrocarbons.
On 30 January 2008, OSHA issued a invest to develop the capability to produce the cleaner fuels that meet safety order that alleges two violations, for a total penalty of $10,000.
the requirements of our customers and their communities.
OSHA conducted an inspection related to the death of a contract diver at the Cherry Point renery in August 2007.
a Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the maximum achievable utilization of capacity 24-hour assessment based on standard feed.
b BP share of equity, which is not necessarily the same as BP share of processing entitlements.
c Subject to negotiation of final agreements and obtaining the necessary approval and permits, Husky Energy will take a 50% interest in BPs Toledo refinery as described on page 28. d On 15 January 2008, it was announced that Essar Energy Overseas Ltd, a subsidiary of Essar Oil Limited, had entered into an agreement to acquire 50% of Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd. Subject to certain conditions, the acquisition, which includes all of BPs interest, is expected to complete in early 2008.
The following table outlines by region the volume of crude oil and feedstock processed by BP for its own account and for third parties.
Corresponding BP renery capacity utilization data is summarized.
b Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the maximum achievable utilization of capacity 24-hour assessment based on standard feed.
c Crude distillation capacity utilization is defined as the percentage utilization of capacity per calendar day over the year after making allowances for average annual shutdowns at BP refineries i. e. net rated capacity.
At the Texas City renery, the recommissioning work in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita has involved the development of detailed plans to effect the repair, safety-upgrading and safe restart of the process units.
The renery has restarted many process units and the site is producing gasoline, diesel and chemicals products for the US market.
By the end of 2007, we had successfully recommissioned the three desulphurization and upgrading units necessary to allow restart of the remaining crude distillation capacity.
The final sour crude unit is mechanically complete and is expected to be fully operational during the first quarter of 2008.
By mid-2008 we expect most of the economic capability at the Texas City renery to have been restored.
Despite the partial recommissioning of the Texas City renery, our US throughputs declined in 2007 due to several operational issues, including the March 2007 re at the Whiting renery as well as planned maintenance at our other reneries.
By the end of 2007, the Whiting renery had recommenced sour crude processing and available distillation capacity exceeded 300,000b d. The increase in Rest of Europe throughputs in 2007 is primarily related to the purchase of Chevrons 31% interest in the Rotterdam renery.
The decrease in UK throughputs is due to the sale of the Coryton renery to Petroplus.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:38 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1004150042 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 31 Marketing including wholesalers and jobbers.
It also supplies commercial customers Marketing comprises three business areas: Fuels marketing including within the road and rail transport sectors.
ground, aviation and marine fuels, bitumen and LPG, Lubricants BPs value creation in ground fuels is obtained through the integration including automotive, marine and industrial lubricants and Aromatics & of the value chain from the renery gates or import hubs across retail and Acetyls.
We market a comprehensive range of rened products, including commercial channels to market.
Convenience retail offers are managed gasoline, gasoil, marine and aviation fuels, heating fuels, LPG, lubricants as an autonomous business model focused on delivering appealing and bitumen.
We also manufacture and market PTA, paraxylene PX and convenience offers across the various markets in which we operate, acetic acid through our Aromatics & Acetyls business.
through the BP Connect, am pm and Aral brands.
Store sales reported are sales through direct-managed stations, franchisees and the b UK area includes the UK-based international activities of Refining and Marketing.
BP share of store alliances and joint ventures.
Sales figures exclude sales taxes and c Marketing sales are sales to service stations, end-consumers, bulk buyers and lottery sales but include quick-service restaurant sales.
Fuel sales are not included jobbers i. e. third parties who own networks of a number of service stations and in these figures.
Not all retail sites include a BP convenience store.
d Trading supply sales are sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
Changes in the number of retail sites over time are affected by, among other things, dealer jobber-owned Other products 196 223 276 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ sites that move to or from the BP brand as their fuel supply agreements expire and Total marketing sales 3,806 3,872 3,942 are renegotiated in the normal course of business.
Marketing volumes were 3,806mb d, slightly lower than last year, At 31 December 2007, BPs worldwide network consisted of some reecting reduced industry demand in Europe and supply disruptions 24,000 locations branded BP, Amoco, ARCO and Aral, around the same caused by the outage at Whiting renery.
BP enjoys a strong market share and leading technologies in the At 31 December 2007, BPs retail network in the US comprised Aromatics & Acetyls business.
In Asia, we continue to develop a strong approximately 12,200 sites, of which approximately 9,700 were owned position in PTA and acetic acid.
Our investment is biased towards this by jobbers and 500 by franchisees.
Our European network amounted to high-growth region, especially China.
approximately 8,600 sites with a further approximately 3,300 sites in BP supports its businesses through a dedicated Strategic Accounts Rest of World.
The joint venture between BP and PetroChina BPorganization.
Strategic Accounts develops strategic relationships with PetroChina Petroleum Company Ltd started its operation in 2004.
The carefully selected large multinational customers in targeted markets, joint venture plans to operate and manage a total network of 500 where mutual strategic and financial value can be created.
Its operating locations in the Guangdong province and 400 sites were operational as at model manages each relationship in a disciplined manner to achieve 31 December 2007.
The joint venture with Sinopec commenced growth and efficiency for BP and its partners through focused offer operations in 2005.
The joint venture plans to build, operate and manage development and capability building.
a network of 500 sites in Hangzhou, Ningbo and Shaoxing within Zhejiang province.
As at 31 December 2007, 220 of these sites were Fuels marketing operational.
Our Fuels marketing strategy focuses on optimising the fuels value chain We continue to improve the efficiency of our retail asset network and and delivering rened products to the market.
We do this by increase the consistency of our site offer through a process of regular co-ordinating our marketing, rening and trading activities to maximize review.
In 2007, we sold 462 company-owned sites to dealers, jobbers synergies across the whole value chain.
Our priorities are to operate an and franchisees who continue to operate these sites under the BP brand.
advantaged infrastructure and logistics network, drive excellence in We also divested an additional 204 company-owned sites to third parties.
operating and transactional processes and deliver compelling customer Each of our fuels brands, BP, Amoco, ARCO and Aral, carries a very offers in the various markets where we operate.
The fuels business strong offer and we also aim to share best practices between them.
markets a comprehensive range of rened oil products focused on Since 2003, we have been upgrading our fuel offer with the introduction ground fuels, aviation, marine and bitumen sectors.
of Ultimate gasoline and diesel products.
In 2007, we launched Ultimate in Switzerland and Luxembourg and now market Ultimate in 17 Ground fuels countries.
In 2007, we launched our Helios Power campaign in the US The ground fuels business supplies fuel to retail consumers through aimed at reinforcing the BP brands positioning in key markets.
company-owned and franchised retail sites as well as other channels Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:38 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 522153156 32 Our convenience retail strategy continues to focus on BPs advantaged LPG positions in major cities and growth markets and upgrading our retail The LPG business sells bulk, bottled, automotive and wholesale LPG offers, while driving operational efficiencies through portfolio optimization products to a wide range of customers in 14 countries.
During the past including, where appropriate, a transition to franchising.
The convenience few years, our LPG business has consolidated its position in established offer comprises sales of convenience items to customers from markets and pursued opportunities in new and emerging markets.
BP is advantaged locations in metropolitan areas, while our fuels offer is one of the leading importers of LPG into the Chinese market, where we deployed at locations in all our markets, in many cases without the continued to grow our retail LPG business.
LPG product sales in 2007 convenience offer.
We execute our convenience offer through a quality were approximately 72mb d. branded store format in each of our key markets.
Examples include the BP Connect offer in Europe, the UK partnership with Marks & Spencer Lubricants Simply Food at selected locations, the am pm offer in the US and the We manufacture and market lubricants products and also supply related Aral offer in Germany.
At 31 December 2007, our convenience store products and services to business customers and end-consumers in more than 60 countries directly and to the rest of the world through local network consisted of more than 960 BP Connect stores worldwide, and around 1,000 am pm stores in the US and 1,500 Aral stores in Germany.
Our business is concentrated on the higher-margin sectors In line with BPs intent to simplify the groups operations and improve of automotive lubricants, especially in the consumer sector, and also has performance, as well as to position the business for future growth by a strong presence in the marine and industrial business markets.
directly accessing the franchisees entrepreneurial experience and local Customer focus, distinctive brands and superior technology remain the knowledge, BP has announced that it will sell all of its company-owned cornerstones of our long-term strategy.
BP markets primarily through its and company-operated convenience sites in the US.
The majority of sites major brands, Castrol and BP, as well as Aral in specic markets.
The will be sold to franchisees, with the remaining sites to dealers and large Castrol brand is recognized worldwide and we believe it provides us with distributors jobbers.
The sale of the sites is expected to be completed a significant competitive advantage.
In the automotive lubricants by the end of 2009.
The sites will continue to market BP-branded fuels in segment, we supply lubricants, other products and related business the eastern US and ARCO-branded fuels in the western US.
The services to intermediate customers such as retailers and workshops, franchise agreement has a term of 20 years and requires sites to be who in turn serve end-consumers such as car, motorcycle and leisuresupplied with BPor ARCO-branded fuels for the term of the contract.
craft owners in the mature markets of western Europe and North America and also in the fast growing markets of the developing world Aviation fuels such as Russia, China, India, the Middle East, South America and Africa.
Air BP is one of the worlds largest aviation businesses, supplying BPs marine lubricants business, operating under the BP and Castrol aviation fuel to the airline, military and general aviation sectors.
It supplies brands, is a market leader with capability to supply in about 1,200 ports.
customers in approximately 80 countries, has annual marketing sales of BP also supplies lubricants to the power generation, offshore oil and 27.4 billion litres more than 470mb d and has relationships with many of aviation industries.
BPs industrial lubricants business supplies lubricants the major commercial airlines.
Air BPs strategic aim is to strengthen its and value-adding services to the transportation, automotive and metal position in its main existing markets Europe US Middle East, while sectors.
creating opportunities in emerging economies such as China, where it is the largest foreign investor in the industry.
Aromatics & Acetyls The Aromatics & Acetyls business manufactures and markets three main Marine fuels products lines: PTA, PX and acetic acid.
PTA is a raw material for the The marine fuels business focuses on the distribution and resale of manufacture of polyesters used in textiles, plastic bottles, bres and rened fuels to the shipping industry across the world.
PX is feedstock for the production of PTA.
Acetic acid is a versatile a strong presence in the marine fuels sector.
It has ofces in 12 intermediate chemical used in a variety of products such as paints, countries and operates in more than 150 ports.
It is also used in the production of PTA.
In addition to these three main products, we are involved in a number of Bitumen other petrochemicals products, namely Dimethyl 2, 6 Naphthalene The bitumen business focuses on the distribution and sale of bitumen dicarboxylate NDC, which is used for optical lm and specialized products for road construction and maintenance.
It has a strong presence packaging, and acetic anhydride, ethyl acetate and vinyl acetate in the US and in Europe and is exploring opportunities in developing monomer VAM, which are used in cellulose acetate, paints, adhesives economies, where new infrastructure is being built.
It markets bitumen and solvents.
Our Aromatics & Acetyls strategy is to invest to maintain products in seven countries and product sales in 2007 were and grow our advantaged manufacturing positions globally, with an approximately 45mb d. emphasis on growth in Asia, particularly in China.
We are also investing in maintaining and developing our technology leadership position to deliver both operating and capital cost advantages.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:38 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1558763255 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 33 The following table shows BPs Aromatics & Acetyls production capacity at 31 December 2007.
This production capacity is based on the original design capacity of the plants plus expansions.
c Inclusive of 900ktepa capacity from the second BP Zhuhai PTA plant, which commenced commissioning at end of 2007. d Samsung-BP Chemicals Ltd. e Asian Acetyls Company Ltd. f China American Petrochemical Company Ltd. g Formosa BP Chemicals Corporation.
During 2007, the following significant activities took place in the total production at the YARACO site is expected to be well over one Aromatics & Acetyls business: million tonnes per annum, which would make it one of the largest Construction commenced on the new 500ktepa plant, in Jiangsu acetic acid production locations in China.
province, China, by BP YPC Acetyls Company Nanjing Limited BYACO, BPs 50% equity-share acetic acid joint venture with Yangzi Supply and trading Petrochemical Co. Ltd a subsidiary of Sinopec Corporation in China, The group has a long-established supply and trading activity responsible and is scheduled to complete by mid-2009.
for delivering value across the overall crude and oil products supply chain.
The second PTA plant at the BP Zhuhai Chemical Company Limited This activity identies the best markets and prices for our crude oil, site in Guangdong province, China, successfully commenced sources optimal feedstock for our rening assets and sources marketing commissioning at the end of 2007.
The 900ktepa plant is the single activities with exible and competitive supply.
Additionally, the function largest PTA train in the world, employing the latest BP proprietary creates incremental trading opportunities through holding commodity technology.
derivative contracts and trading inventory.
To achieve these objectives in In the first quarter of 2007, BP announced its intention to sell its a liquid and volatile international market, the group enters into a range of European VAM and ethyl acetate businesses.
In January 2008, INEOS commodity derivative contracts, including exchange-traded futures and announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire these options, over-the-counter OTC options, swaps and forward contracts as businesses.
The transaction, which is subject to the approval of the well as physical term and spot contracts.
EU competition authorities, is expected to complete in the first quarter Exchange-traded contracts are traded on liquid regulated markets that of 2008. transact in key crude grades, such as Brent and West Texas In the fourth quarter of 2007, BP completed the disposal of its Intermediate, and the main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil.
47.41% equity interest in Samsung Petrochemical Co. Ltd SPC to These exchanges exist in each of the key markets in the US, western our PTA joint venture partner, Samsung Group, in South Korea.
OTC contracts include a variety of options, forwards The development of a 350ktepa PTA expansion at Geel, Belgium, is and swaps.
These swaps price in relation to a wider set of grades than expected to be operational in mid-2008 and to increase the sites PTA those traded through the exchanges, where counterparties contract for capacity to 1,425ktepa.
differences between, for example, xed and oating prices.
The In January 2008, BP and Sinopec signed a memorandum of contracts we use are described in more detail below.
Additionally, understanding to add a new acetic acid plant at their Yangtze River physical crude can be traded forward by using specic OTC contracts Acetyls Co. YARACO joint venture in Chongqing, upstream Yangtze pricing in reference to Brent and West Texas Intermediate grades.
This world-scale acetic acid plant, using BPs crude forward sales contracts are used by BP to buy and sell the 2 leading Cativa technology, is expected to have an annual capacity of underlying physical commodity, as well as to act as a risk management 650ktepa.
The plant is expected to be onstream in 2011, when the and trading instrument.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:38 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 856366454 34 Risk management is undertaken when the group is exposed to market contracts relate typically to purchases of crude for a renery, sales of risk, primarily due to the timing of sales and purchases, which may occur the groups oil production and sales of the groups oil products.
For for both commercial and operational reasons.
For example, if the group accounting purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and has delayed a purchase and has a lower-than-normal inventory level, the other operating revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term associated price exposure may be limited by taking an offsetting position purchases are included in purchases for accounting purposes.
in the most suitable commodity derivative contract described above.
Where trading is undertaken, the group actively combines a range of Trading investigations derivative contracts and physical positions to create incremental trading See Legal proceedings on page 84 for details regarding investigations gains by arbitraging prices, typically between locations and time periods.
into various aspects of BPs trading activities.
This range of contract types includes futures, swaps, options and During 2007, the group has taken a series of measures in relation to its forward sale and purchase contracts, which are described further below.
trading compliance processes, systems and controls.
These measures Through these transactions, the group sells crude production into the include increasing its compliance resources in the US and elsewhere, continuing to implement an enhanced compliance framework and market, allowing more suitable higher-margin crude to be supplied to our reneries.
The group may also actively buy and sell crude on a spot and programme that includes compliance monitoring of trading operations, term basis to further improve selections of crude for reneries.
In and the ongoing development and implementation of operating standards addition, where renery production is surplus to marketing requirements and processes.
In the US, the deferred prosecution agreement DPA or can be sourced more competitively, it is sold into the market.
This between BP America Inc. BP America and the US Department of latter activity also encompasses opportunities to maximize the value of Justice has resulted in the appointment of an independent monitor to the whole supply chain through the optimization of storage and pipeline oversee compliance with the DPA.
The independent monitor has assets, including the purchase of product components that are blended authority to investigate and report alleged violations of the US into nished products.
The group also owns and contracts for storage Commodity Exchange Act or US Commodity Futures Trading and transport capacity to facilitate this activity.
Commission regulations and to recommend corrective action.
The range of transactions that the group enters into is described below in more detail: Transportation Exchange-traded commodity derivatives Our Rening and Marketing segment owns, operates or has an interest These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded in extensive transportation facilities for crude oil, rened products and on a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, Simex, ICE and Chicago petrochemicals feedstock.
We transport crude oil to our reneries Board of Trade.
Such contracts are traded in standard specications principally by ship and through pipelines from our import terminals.
We for the main marker crude oils, such as Brent and West Texas have interests in crude oil pipelines in Europe and the US.
Bulk products Intermediate, and the main product grades, such as gasoline and are transported between reneries and storage terminals by pipeline, gasoil.
Though potentially settled physically, these contracts are ship, barge and rail.
Onward delivery to customers is primarily by road.
Gains and losses, otherwise referred to as We have interests in major product pipelines in the UK, Rest of Europe variation margins, are settled on a daily basis with the relevant and the US.
These contracts are used for the trading and risk management of both crude and products.
Realized and unrealized Shipping gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity derivatives are We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting waterways, using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and purposes.
All vessels conducting BP activities are subject to OTC contracts our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and International eet options.
OTC contracts are negotiated between two parties and are In 2006, we managed an international eet of 57 vessels 42 mediumnot traded on an exchange.
These contracts can be used both as part of trading and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized size crude and product carriers, four very large crude carriers, one North gains and losses on OTC contracts are included in sales and other Sea shuttle tanker, seven LNG carriers and three new LPG carriers.
At operating revenues for accounting purposes.
the end of 2007, we had 53 international vessels 39 medium-size crude The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using and product carriers, four very large crude carriers, one North Sea shuttle standard contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North tanker, five LNG carriers and four LPG carriers.
All these ships are Sea crude blend Brent, Forties and Osberg or BFO.
Of the five LNG carriers, BP manages one on behalf of a contracts specify physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a joint venture in which it is a participant and operates four LNG carriers.
significant volume are not settled physically.
The contracts contain Three further LNG carriers are on order for delivery in 2008. standard delivery, pricing and settlement terms.
Additionally, the BFO contract species a standard volume and tolerance given that the Regional and specialist vessels physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo.
In Alaska, we redelivered one of our time-chartered vessels back to the Swaps are contractual obligations to exchange cash ows between owner, leaving a eet of five double-hulled vessels.
In the Lower 48, two two parties: one usually references a oating price and the other a of the four heritage Amoco barges remain in service, both of which are xed price with the net difference of the cash ows being settled.
due to be phased out of BPs service in 2008.
Outside the US, the Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell specialist eet has been reduced from 16 ships in 2006 to 14 in 2007 crude or oil products at a specified price on or before a specic future two double-hulled lubricants oil barges and 12 offshore support vessels.
Amounts under these derivative financial instruments are settled at expiry, typically through netting agreements, to limit credit exposure Time-charter vessels and support liquidity.
BP has 111 hydrocarbon-carrying vessels above 600 deadweight tonnes Spot and term contracts on time-charter, of which 97 are double-hulled and two are doubleSpot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell crude and oil products bottomed.
All these vessels participate in BPs Time Charter Assurance at the market price prevailing on and around the delivery date when Programme.
title to the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Spot-charter vessels Though spot and term contracts may have a standard form, there is To transport the remainder of the groups products, BP spot-charters vessels, typically for single voyages.
These vessels are always vetted for no offsetting mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot and term safety assurance prior to use.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:38 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1392874220 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 35 Other vessels Gas, Power and Renewables BP uses various craft such as tugs, crew boats and seismic vessels in support of the groups business.
We also use sub-600 deadweight tonne barges to carry hydrocarbons on inland waterways.
In 2007, the Gas, Power and Renewables segment included four main activities: marketing and trading of gas and power: marketing and trading of liqueed natural gas LNG : production, marketing and trading of natural gas liquids NGLs : and low-carbon power generation through our Alternative Energy business.
Resegmentation in 2008 With effect from 1 January 2008: The Gas, Power and Renewables segment ceased to report separately.
The NGLs, LNG and the gas and power marketing and trading businesses were transferred from the Gas, Power and Renewables segment to the Exploration and Production segment.
The Alternative Energy business was transferred from the Gas, Power and Renewables segment to Other businesses and corporate.
Marketing and trading activities are focused on the relatively open and deregulated natural gas and power markets of North America, the UK and the most liquid trading locations in Rest of Europe.
Some long-term natural gas contracting activity is included within the Exploration and Production segment because of the nature of the gas markets when the long-term sales contracts were agreed.
Our LNG business develops opportunities to capture sales for our upstream natural gas resources, working in close collaboration with the Exploration and Production segment.
For sales into non-liquid markets such as Japan and Korea, we aim to secure contracts with high-value customers.
For the majority of sales into liquid wholesale markets such as the US and the UK, we are building integrated supply chains covering production, liquefaction, shipping, re-gasication and access to the wholesale transmission grid.
Our strategy is to capture a growing share of the  gas market.
We are focusing on markets that offer significant prospects for growth.
Our LNG activities involve the marketing of third-party LNG as well as BP equity volumes, where this allows us to optimize our existing asset and contractual positions.
Our NGLs business is engaged in the processing, fractionation and marketing of ethane, propane, butanes and pentanes extracted from natural gas.
We have a significant NGLs processing and marketing Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:38 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 811010729 36 business in North America.
Our NGLs activity is underpinned by our markets exist in North America and the UK where gas and power can upstream resources and serves third-party markets for chemicals and be bought and sold for delivery in future periods.
These contracts are clean fuels as well as supplying BPs rening activities.
negotiated between two parties to purchase and sell gas and power Globally, the power sector is the largest source of greenhouse gas at a specified price, with delivery and settlement at a future date.
GHG emissions, responsible for around twice the emissions of Although these contracts specify delivery terms for the underlying transport, so creating low-carbon power is critical in the effort to stabilize commodity, in practice a significant volume of these transactions are global GHG levels.
BP is focused on power generation activities with lownot settled physically.
This can be achieved by transacting offsetting carbon emissions through its Alternative Energy business, extending sale or purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period signicantly our capabilities in solar, wind power, hydrogen power and that are offset during the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
contracts contain standard terms such as delivery point, pricing Capital expenditure and acquisitions in 2007 was $874 million, mechanism, settlement terms and specication of the commodity.
compared with $688 million in 2006 and $235 million in 2005.
In 2007, Typically, volume and price are the main variable terms.
we acquired Wasatch Energy L. L. C. in the US and in 2006 our Swaps are contractual obligations to exchange cash ows between acquisitions included Orion Energy, LLC and Greenlight Energy, Inc.
One usually references a oating price and the other a 2005 there were no acquisitions.
xed price, with the net difference of the cash ows being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell Marketing and trading activities natural gas products or power at a specified price on or before a Gas and power marketing and trading activity is undertaken primarily in specic future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial the US, Canada, the UK and Europe to market BPs gas and power instruments are settled at expiry, typically through netting agreements production and manage market price risk as well as to create incremental to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
trading opportunities through the use of commodity derivative contracts.
Spot and term contracts Additionally, this activity generates fee income and enhanced margins Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the from sources such as the management of price risk on behalf of thirdmarket price prevailing on the delivery date when title to the inventory party customers.
These markets are large, liquid and volatile and the passes.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity group enters into these transactions on a large scale to meet these at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and term objectives.
contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting mechanism The group also has an NGLs trading activity in the US for delivering in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with operational value across the overall NGLs supply chain, sourcing optimal feedstock and price risk.
Spot and term contracts relate typically to purchases of for our processing assets and securing access to markets with exible third-party gas and sales of the groups gas production to third parties.
Spot and term sales are included in sales and other operating In connection with the above activities, the group uses a range of revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term purchases are commodity derivative contracts and storage and transport contracts.
included in purchases for accounting purposes.
These include commodity derivatives such as futures, swaps and options to manage price risk and forward contracts used to buy and sell gas and See Financial and operating performance Gas, Power and power in the marketplace.
Using these contracts, in combination with Renewables on page 50. rights to access storage and transportation capacity, allows the group to access advantageous pricing differences between locations, time periods Trading investigations and arbitrage between markets.
Gas futures and options are traded See Legal proceedings on page 84 for details regarding investigations through exchanges, while over-the-counter OTC options and swaps are into various aspects of BPs trading activities.
used for both gas and power transactions through bilateral arrangements.
During 2007, the group has taken a series of measures in relation to its trading compliance processes, systems and controls.
These measures Futures and options are primarily used to trade the key index prices such as Henry Hub, while swaps can be tailored to price with reference to include increasing its compliance resources in the US and elsewhere, specic delivery locations where gas and power can be bought and sold.
continuing to implement an enhanced compliance framework and OTC forward contracts have evolved in both the US and UK markets, programme that includes compliance monitoring of trading operations, enabling gas and power to be sold forward in a variety of locations and and the ongoing development and implementation of operating standards future periods.
These contracts are used both to sell production into the and processes.
In the US, the deferred prosecution agreement DPA wholesale markets and as trading instruments to buy and sell gas and between BP America Inc. BP America and the US Department of power in future periods.
Capacity contracts allow the group to store, Justice has resulted in the appointment of an independent monitor to transport gas and transmit power between these locations.
Additionally, oversee compliance with the DPA.
The independent monitor has activity is undertaken to risk-manage power generation margins related authority to investigate and report alleged violations of the US to the Texas City co-generation plant using a range of gas and power Commodity Exchange Act or US Commodity Futures Trading commodity derivatives.
The range of contracts that the group enters into is described below in more detail: North America Exchange-traded commodity derivatives BP has a significant wholesale gas and power marketing and trading Exchange-traded commodity derivatives include gas and power business in North America.
Our business has been built on the futures contracts.
Though potentially settled physically, these foundation of our position as one of the continents leading producers of contracts are typically settled nancially.
Gains and losses, otherwise gas based on volumes.
Our gas activity in the US and Canada has grown referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis with the during the past few years as the group increased its scale through both relevant exchange.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on organic growth of operations and the acquisition of smaller marketing exchange-traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and and trading companies, increasing reach into additional markets.
At the other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
same time, the overall volumes in these markets have also increased.
OTC contracts The group also trades power, in addition to selling and risk managing These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and production from the Texas City co-generation facility in the US.
OTC contracts are negotiated between two parties and are Our North American natural gas marketing and trading strategy seeks not traded on an exchange.
These contracts can be used both as part to provide unconstrained market access for BPs equity gas.
Our of trading and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized marketing strategy targets high-value customer segments through fully utilizing our rights to store and transport gas.
These assets include those gains and losses on OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
Highly-developed Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 579212814 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 37 owned by BP and those contractually accessed through agreements with River LNG.
A final investment decision is expected in 2008 and could third parties such as pipelines and terminals.
BP continues to seek approvals for a new terminal development in the Europe US.
The proposed 1.2 billion cubic feet per day bcf d Crown Landing The natural gas market in the UK is significant in size and is one of the terminal is to be located on the Delaware River in New Jersey.
The most progressive in terms of deregulation when compared with other Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC granted its approval for European markets.
BP is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the siting, construction and operation of this project during 2006.
BP the UK, based on volumes, with the majority of BPs volumes being sold continues to work with state agencies in New Jersey to complete state to power generation companies and to other gas wholesalers via longpermitting requirements and with the relevant federal, state and local term supply deals.
authorities to put in place security plans for the facility and associated In addition to the marketing of BP gas, commodity derivative contracts shipping activities.
BP is also monitoring the progress of a proceeding are used in combination with access to storage, transport ow and led by the State of New Jersey against the State of Delaware in the US assets to generate trading opportunities.
This may include storing Supreme Court concerning New Jerseys jurisdiction over developments physical gas to sell in future periods or moving gas between markets to on its shores, including the projects loading jetty that extends into the access higher prices.
Commodity contracts such as OTC forward Delaware River.
The US Supreme Court heard the New Jersey versus contracts can be used to achieve this, while other commodity contracts Delaware case on 27 November 2007 and a decision from the court is such as futures and options can be used to manage the market risk expected in 2008. relating to changes in prices.
In Europe, we maintain a marketing presence in Spain, but are Natural gas liquids increasingly focused on wholesale transactions at the existing and new Based on sales volumes, we are one of the largest producers and gas trading hubs and exchanges in Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany marketers of NGLs in North America and hold interests for NGL volumes and France.
NGLs produced in North America from gas chiey sourced out of Liqueed natural gas Alberta, Canada and the US onshore and Gulf Coast, are used as a Our LNG and new market development activities are focused on heating fuel and as a feedstock for reneries and chemicals plants.
In establishing international market positions to create maximum value from addition, a significant amount of NGLs are marketed on a wholesale basis our upstream natural gas resources and on capturing third-party LNG under annual supply contracts that provide for price re-determination supply to complement our equity ows.
BP Exploration and Production has interests in a number of major In North America, BP operates or has interests in NGL extraction existing LNG supply projects: Atlantic LNG in Trinidad & Tobago, Bontang plants with a processing capacity of 6.4bcf d. These facilities are located in Indonesia and the North West Shelf NWS project in Australia.
in major production areas across North America, including Alberta, Additional LNG supplies are being pursued through an expansion of the Canada, the US Rockies, the San Juan basin and the Gulf of Mexico.
We existing LNG facilities at the NWS project in Australia and green-eld also own or have an interest in fractionation plants that separate the developments in Indonesia Tangguh and Angola.
NGL into its component products in Canada and the US, and own or We continue to access major growth markets for the groups equity lease storage capacity in Alberta, eastern Canada, and the US Gulf Coast, gas in the Pacic region.
During 2007, development continued on the as well as the US west coast and mid-continent regions.
Our North Tangguh LNG project BP 37.2% and operator from which the first American NGLs processing capacity utilization in 2007 was 72%.
In commercial delivery is expected in early 2009.
Tangguh will be the third 2006, we entered into a long-term supply contract with Aux Sable Liquid LNG centre in Indonesia and has signed sales contracts for delivery to Products to secure additional NGLs to supply our customers in the US customers in China, South Korea and the west coast of Mexico.
A major three-year programme to inspect, assess and repair or 2007, further progress was made in securing contracts for LNG to be replace equipment is under way in BPs North American NGLs business.
derived from the remaining uncontracted reserves at the NWS project.
On 20 March 2007, we completed the sale of BPs 50% equity and Agreements for the supply of LNG to Japan have been signed with operating interest in the Cochin pipeline system to Kinder Morgan Energy Chugoku Electric, Kyushu Electric, Tohuku Electric and Toho Gas and for Partners.
the supply of LNG to South Korea with the Korean Gas Corporation BP operates one NGLs plant Central Area Transmission System, 30% KOGAS.
The Guangdong LNG re-gasication and pipeline project in owner and operator with a capacity of 1.2bcf d in the UK and we are a south-east China, in which BP is the only foreign partner, completed partner 33.33% in a gas processing plant in Egypt with 1.1bcf d of gas installation of its third storage tank in the third quarter of 2007, increasing processing capacity.
We have also secured access to the Abibes LPG its throughput to 7 million tonnes per annum.
In addition to LNG supplied terminal in Cremona, northern Italy.
under a long-term contract with the NWS project, the terminal took delivery of an additional seven spot cargoes during the year, to meet Alternative energy rapidly growing local demand for gas.
BP Alternative Energy, launched in November 2005, combines all of BPs In the Atlantic and Mediterranean regions, BP is creating opportunities interests in businesses that provide low-carbon energy solutions for to supply LNG to North American and European gas markets.
The fourth power generation: solar, wind, gas-red power generation and hydrogen LNG train at Atlantic LNG in Trinidad, with a capacity of 5.2 million tonnes power with carbon capture and storage CCS.
per annum 253,000mmcf, began operations in late 2005.
These BPmarketed volumes supplement a 2005 long-term agreement with EGAS Solar of Egypt to purchase 1.45 billion cubic metres per year of LNG from the BP Solars main production facilities are located in Maryland US, Madrid Spanish Egyptian Gas Company SEGAS plant at Damietta, and a shortSpain, Sydney Australia, Xian China and Bangalore India.
During term contract to purchase LNG from Oman and periodic spot purchases 2007, expansion of cell capacity continued at our Madrid and Bangalore of LNG.
BP is marketing its LNG entitlement directly, utilizing BPfacilities, alongside a $100-million project to expand casting capacity at controlled LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import terminal Maryland, increasing our annual manufacturing capacity to 228MW.
capacity in the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point and Elba Island BP Solar achieved sales of 115MW in 2007 93MW in 2006 and and the UK via the Isle of Grain.
In Spain, environmental permits have 105MW in 2005. been issued to allow an expansion of the Bilbao re-gasication terminal in In 2007, BP Solar and Banco Santander installed 14 Megawatts peak which BP has a 25% equity stake.
MWp of the planned 20MWp installations in Spain, while in the US, In Nigeria, discussions are ongoing following the 2006 signing of a BP Solar won a bid to develop 4.3MW of solar energy systems for seven Wal-Mart Stores in California, with the first three installations completed memorandum of understanding for the purchase of LNG from Brass by the end of December.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1137947186 38 22 We are developing a new silicon growth process named Mono, Other businesses and corporate which signicantly increases cell efficiency over traditional  solar cells, making our first pilot shipment in 2007.
Solar cells made with these wafers, in combination with other BP Solar Other businesses and corporate comprises Treasury which includes all advances in cell process technology, are expected to be able to produce the groups cash, cash equivalents and associated interest income, the between 5% and 8% more power than solar cells made with groups aluminium asset and corporate activities worldwide.
In Germany, Sales and other operating revenues we signed a co-operation agreement with the Institute of Crystal Growth for continuing operations 843 1,009 668 IKZ in September 2006 to develop a technique to deposit silicon in very profit loss before interest and tax a thin layers directly on glass instead of growing crystals.
The programme from continuing operations 1,128 885 1,237 has demonstrated this ability and work continues to improve the growth Total assets 17,188 14,184 12,144 process and crystal structure.
We are participating in a $40-million Capital expenditure and acquisitions 275 281 817 research and development programme of which $20 million is provided a Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
by BP Solar aimed at decreasing the cost of solar cells and increasing their efficiency.
The programme is sponsored by the US Department of Energy.
Resegmentation in 2008 With effect from 1 January 2008: Wind The Alternative Energy business was transferred from the Gas, Power Since 2005, we have increased our wind capacity from 32MW to more and Renewables segment to Other businesses and corporate.
than 370MW, with an aim to grow that to more than 1,000MW by the The Emerging Consumers Marketing Unit was transferred from end of 2008.
We operate wind farms in the Netherlands, Maharashtra in Rening and Marketing to Alternative Energy which is reported in India and Colorado in the US.
In the US, we have a long-term supply agreement with Clipper The Biofuels business was transferred from Rening and Marketing to Windpower plc, with options to purchase Clipper turbines with a total Alternative Energy which is reported in Other businesses and capacity of 2,250MW.
During 2006, we also acquired Orion Energy, LLC, corporate.
and Greenlight Energy, Inc. With the acquisition of these large-scale wind The Shipping business was transferred from Rening and Marketing energy developers, our North American wind portfolio includes projects to Other businesses and corporate.
with potential total generating capacity of some 15,000MW.
During 2007, we commenced construction on the Silver Star I project 60MW in Treasury Texas and commenced full commercial operation of our 300MW Cedar Treasury co-ordinates the management of the groups major financial Creek project in Colorado.
From locations in the UK, the US and the Asia In India, we commenced full commercial operations at our 40MW Pacic region, it provides the link between BP and the international wind farm in Dhule, Maharashtra, India using 32 turbines supplied and financial markets and makes available a range of financial services to the installed by Suzlon, each with the capacity to generate 1.25MW of group, including supporting the nancing of BPs projects around the electricity.
Gas-red power Aluminium Gas-red power stations typically emit around half as much CO as Our aluminium business is a non-integrated producer and marketer of 2 conventional coal-red plants.
We have interests in a 785MW gas-red rolled aluminium products, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, US.
power generation facility and an associated LNG re-gasication facility at Production facilities are located in Logan County, Kentucky, and are Bilbao, Spain BP 25% share in each, a 1,074MW gas-red combined jointly owned with Novelis.
The primary activity of our aluminium cycle power CCGT plant at Kwangyang, South Korea BP 35%, a business is the supply of aluminium coil to the beverage can business, 724MW CCGT facility at Phu My, Vietnam BP 33.3%, a 1,378MW gas which it manufactures primarily from recycled aluminium.
turbine BP 10% in Trinidad & Tobago, a 392MW co-generation plant BP 51% in California, US and a 744MW co-generation plant at Texas Research, technology and engineering City, US BP 50%, which supplies power and steam to BPs largest Research, technology and engineering activities are carried out by each rening and petrochemicals complex.
Also, a 50MW combined heat and of the major business segments on the basis of a distributed programme power plant near Southampton, UK BP 100% has been in operation co-ordinated by a technology co-ordination group.
This body provides since the first half of 2005.
Construction continues on the 250MW steam leadership for scientific, technical and engineering activities throughout turbine power generating plant at the Texas City renery site, which is the group and in particular promotes cross-business initiatives and the expected to bring the total capacity of the site to around 1,000MW when transfer of best practice between businesses.
In addition, a group of completed in 2008. eminent industrialists and academics forms the Technology Advisory Council, which advises senior management on the state of technology Hydrogen power within the group and helps to identify current trends and future In May 2007, BP and Rio Tinto announced the formation of a new jointly developments in technology.
owned company, Hydrogen Energy, which will develop decarbonized Research and development is carried out using a balance of internal energy projects around the world.
The venture will initially focus on and external resources.
Involving third parties in the various steps of hydrogen-fuelled power generation, using fossil fuels and CCS technology development and application enables a wider range of technology to produce new large-scale supplies of clean electricity.
technology solutions to be considered and implemented, improving the We are developing industrial-scale hydrogen power projects with CCS productivity of research and development activities.
includes investing in technology ventures as a platform for promoting General Electric and BP have formed a global alliance to jointly develop collaborative research.
These ventures are not subsidiaries and, as a and deploy technology for hydrogen power plants that could signicantly result, their expenditure on research and development is not included reduce emissions of the greenhouse gas CO from electricity generation.
directly in the research and development expenditure stated below.
2 Across the group, expenditure on research and development for 2007 was $566 million, compared with $395 million in 2006 and $502 million in Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -459275774 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 39 2005 2005 includes $374 million in respect of continuing operations.
Berkeley and its partners the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign and See Financial statements note 14 on page 125.
The 43% increase in the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory to join us in the previously- 2007 compared with 2006 reects increased investment in enhanced oil announced $500-million research programme to explore how bioscience recovery, heavy oil, advanced rening, conversion, biosciences and can be used to increase energy production and reduce the impact of renewables technology.
energy consumption on the environment.
This energy research laboratory is now operational.
We also entered into research agreements with two Insurance biotechnology companies in the US to focus on next generation energy The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations crops for biofuels and to research microbial processes in subsurface where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
We have formed a research partnership with the external insurance is not considered an economic means of nancing Massachusetts Institute of Technology to complement our internal losses for the group.
Losses will therefore be borne as they arise, rather technology capabilities in converting low-value carbon feedstocks such as than being spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant petcoke and coal to high-value products such as electricity, liquid fuels emissions.
This position is reviewed periodically.
and chemicals while minimizing CO 2 Carbon capture and storage CCS technologies are a key enabler to the success of low-carbon power generation and product manufacturing.
Technology Having integrated the learning from our CO storage project in Algeria 2 with our extensive Exploration and Production capabilities, our CCS The realization of technological advancements is pivotal to our strategic technologies are ready for deployment at scale.
It is also the key to nding and developing solutions that meet the energy and climate challenges of the Regulation of the groups business 21st century.
Our three-year technology plan provides sustained investment in our core technologies and increasing investment in long-term technologies.
BPs exploration and production activities are conducted in many As we have deepened our current areas of leadership, extended their different countries and are therefore subject to a broad range of application in the eld and broadened our long-term technology portfolio, legislation and regulations.
These cover virtually all aspects of exploration our technology investment has grown at an average of 15% per annum and production activities, including matters such as licence acquisition, during the period 2003-2007.
In 2007, total technology investment was production rates, royalties, pricing, environmental protection, export, around $1.1 billion.
The terms and conditions of the leases, The sheer range and complexity of technologies that can impact our licences and contracts under which these oil and gas interests are held businesses, and the wide variety of sources for these technologies vary from country to country.
These leases, licences and contracts are proprietary, energy service sector, universities and research institutions generally granted by or entered into with a government entity or state and other industries means that no single approach can meet all our company and are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the The following guiding principles underpin our approach to technology: form of licences or production-sharing agreements.
Arrangements with Deliver technology leadership in a select few areas.
private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
Develop sustainable technology-based solutions for corporate Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and renewal.
Under a licence, the holder bears the risk Drive rapid take-up of proprietary and commercially available of exploration, development and production activities and provides the technologies.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled Innovate and test technology at material scale.
to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence Develop and access world-class skills: collaborate internally and holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which externally.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit These principles are reected in how we define technology hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in investment.
Whereas research and development is an externally reported exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather number, internally we use a broader but very specic denition for than production.
This consists of four elements: technology Production-sharing agreements entered into with a government entity development for incremental improvement of our base businesses: or state company generally require BP to provide all the nancing and technology leadership areas to create and sustain material, advantaged bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a business positions: long-term technology investments to secure our share of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
future: and application and propagation of technology through formalized In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and technology networks and knowledge management processes.
production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are limited During 2007, we continued to advance and employ new technologies to a portion of the area covered by the exploration licence.
Both in drilling and well construction, unconventional gas development, exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of enhanced oil recovery and seismic imaging.
These technologies and time except for licences in the US, which typically remain in effect until know-how have enabled a new agreement with the Sultanate of Oman production ceases.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which to develop gas resources, discoveries in Azerbaijan, Angola, Egypt and these licences may be renewed vary by area.
the Gulf of Mexico, increased production from tight gas elds in the Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in continental US and increased recoveries from our elds in maturing joint venture with other international oil companies, state companies or basins such as Alaska and the North Sea.
Technology advancements are also broadening our rening capability In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated from to understand and process feedstocks of varying quality and optimize our production activities whether under a licence or production-sharing assets in real time, enhancing the exibility and reliability of our reneries agreement.
In addition, depending on the area, BPs production activities and, in turn, improving the margins of our existing asset base.
Our may be subject to a range of other taxes, levies and assessments, proprietary technologies in PTA have continued to reduce manufacturing including special petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed costs and environmental impact: the new Zhuhai 2 unit in China, which on oil and gas production profits and activities may be substantially started in 2007, has a lower energy consumption and environmental higher than those imposed on other activities, particularly in Angola, footprint than any other PTA unit in the world.
Norway, the UK, Russia, South America and Trinidad & Tobago.
We also continue to progress our strategic longer-term technologies.
In the eld of bioscience, we selected the University of California Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -461901534 40 BPs other activities, including its interests in pipelines and its include measures on the competency of employees in roles critical to commodities and trading activities, are also subject to a broad range of safety and on the development of appropriate operating procedures.
We legislation and regulations in various countries in which it operates.
are working with the industry to develop indicators and this already Health, safety and environmental regulations are discussed in more includes progress to agree a metric covering loss of primary detail in Environment on page 41. containment.
For certain information regarding environmental proceedings, see Environment US regional review on page 43.
Progress at Texas City and our other US reneries Across the US rening system, we have worked to address factors that contributed to the Texas City renery incident of 2005, including facility Safety siting, atmospheric relief systems, operating procedures and operator training, as well as control of work systems and process safety culture This section reviews BPs 2007 performance with respect to safety and and leadership.
The reneries have engaged with employees on how to improve the environment.
An overview of our non-financial performance will appear in BP Sustainability Report 2007, expected to be published in process safety.
Each renery is creating a strategic implementation plan May 2008. to reduce process safety risk on a continuous improvement basis and to In total, there were seven workforce fatalities relating to BP operations implement the OMS.
With the United Steel Workers Union, we have in 2007, compared with the same number in 2006.
Two were the result reached agreement in principle to work jointly to improve safety across of shootings relating to our retail operations in South Africa, two occurred four represented reneries.
At Texas City, face-to-face communication in operations at our US reneries in Cherry Point and Texas City, one was with staff has been supplemented by The Future is Now, a monthly on board a BP marine vessel, one was road-related and one an accident magazine widely circulated across the group.
involving a defective re extinguisher in Indonesia.
We deeply regret the Approximately 640 new staff were hired across our US reneries, loss of any lives.
These incidents re-emphasize the need for constant strengthening our support of engineering, inspection and process safety.
vigilance in seeking to secure the safety of all members of our Further information on Texas City and other reneries can be found in workforce.
the Rening and Marketing section on page 28.
Our employee and contractor reported recordable injury frequency in 2007 was 0.48 per 200,000 hours worked, the same as that for 2006 Implementing the six-point plan 2006 data was corrected from 0.47 to 0.48, and below the industry We set out our immediate priorities for improving process safety average for 2006. management and reducing risk at our operations worldwide through a six-point plan.
This plan, launched in 2006, pre-dated the panels Implementing Baker Panel recommendations recommendations and creates a foundation for our approach.
Throughout 2007, BP continued to progress the process safety Progress on the plans elements is reviewed each quarter by the enhancement programme initiated in response to the March 2005 incident executive-level group operations risk committee GORC.
We worked to implement the recommendations We have taken the following actions in relation to the six-point plan: of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel the panel, In 2007, we implemented a group practice on occupied portable which issued its report on the incident in January 2007 see buildings and removed all temporary buildings out of high-risk zones in www.
reneries and major onshore plants.
We continue to apply the practice We have made material progress throughout the group across all of and report progress on identication and removal of relevant buildings the panels 10 recommendations.
Action can be grouped under the to the GORC.
A total of 17 blow-down stacks all of those on heavierfollowing headings: than-air light hydrocarbon streams in reneries have been removed from service.
The one remaining blow-down stack, at a chemical plant Leadership in Malaysia, is scheduled to be removed from service during 2008.
Our executive team carried out site visits, which included BPs five US We have completed 50 major accident risk assessments MARs.
Board members also undertook site visits, including one to the assessments identify high-level risks that, if they occur, would have a Texas City renery.
We have consistently communicated that safe and major effect on people or the environment.
Many of these risks, such reliable operations are our highest priority.
Our safety and operations as a loss of containment from our operations, are common across the audit group was strengthened and completed 28 audits in 2007. industry.
Mitigation plans to manage and respond to identied risks form part of the MAR analysis.
Management systems We are implementing group standards for integrity management and Implementation of our operating management system OMS began at a control of work on a locally risk-assessed and prioritized basis.
first group of sites that included all five US reneries see page 41.
We Progress on implementing the standards is tracked quarterly.
We have continued implementing the groups six-point plan, which focuses on spent $6 billion on integrity management in the course of 2007, key priorities for investment and action associated with safe operations principally related to operating costs for maintenance and capital costs see below.
We have continued to improve the way in which we seek to ensure Knowledge and expertise our operations maintain compliance with health and safety laws and We established an executive-level training programme, ran process regulations.
A project to establish a consistent compliance safety workshops and launched an operations academy for site-based management framework has been under way in the US during the staff to enhance process safety capability.
Specialists have been past two years and is expected to be completed globally by the end of deployed at our US reneries to accelerate priority improvement 2008. programmes.
Reviews have been undertaken resulting in many actions being closed out from past audits.
Other actions requiring closure have been Culture identied.
To reinforce the need for a stronger safety culture, our in-house team Senior HSE advisors have carried out a preliminary assessment of the undertook assessments of BPs safety culture, supported by operational experience of BP management teams responsible for communication from leadership.
major production or manufacturing plant and any significant assessment findings have been addressed.
Indicators Progress has been made in developing leading and lagging indicators, building on metrics already reported to executive management.
These Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 568244358 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 41 Operational integrity The executive operations programme targets group vice presidents As part of monitoring operational integrity, we track the number of major and senior business leaders with accountability for multiple operations or incidents during the year: oil spills of more than 100 barrels, significant sites.
Its purpose is to deepen insight into manufacturing and operations property damage or fatal accidents related to integrity management activities and the consequences of leadership decisions.
We also investigate any near-misses that could have resulted in In 2007, we began the development of programmes for the wider a major incident.
Overall in 2007, the total number of high potentials workforce such as technicians and operators, graduate new hires and went down: however, more integrity management-related high managers in roles between supervisory and senior leadership levels.
potentials were reported in 2007 than in previous years as a result of improved knowledge-sharing.
Environment The numberofoil  340 from 417 in 2006.
The volume of oil spilled was 1.05 million litres, of which 0.33 million litres were unrecovered.
Health, safety and environmental regulation The group is subject to numerous international, national and local Continuing to focus on personal health and safety environmental laws and regulations concerning its products, operations In combination with our efforts to improve process safety, we have and activities.
Current and proposed fuel and product specications and continued to strive for excellence in occupational health and safety.
This climate change programmes under a number of environmental laws will is in line with our aspiration of no accidents, no harm to people and no have a significant effect on the production, sale and profitability of many damage to the environment.
Environmental laws and regulations also require the Continued focus on driving risks has resulted in a significant reduction group to remediate or otherwise redress the effects on the environment in major driving incidents, those that cause a fatality or result in a vehicle of prior disposal or release of chemicals or petroleum substances by the rollover since 2005. group or other parties.
Such contingencies may exist for various sites, Health is an integral part of the OMS.
In 2007, work continued on including reneries, chemicals plants, natural gas processing plants, oil developing practices in health management, covering industrial hygiene, and natural gas elds, service stations, terminals and waste disposal asbestos, tness to work, health impact assessment, medical sites.
In addition, the group may have obligations relating to prior asset emergency management, health promotion and wellness.
These sales or closed facilities.
Provisions for environmental restoration and practices set minimum standards of health performance in BP see remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount is below.
Generally, their timing coincides with the We recognize that the health and safety of our workforce and commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on communities is affected by our operations and that meeting our closure of inactive sites.
The provisions made are considered by aspiration of no harm to people requires continuous effort, every day.
management to be sufficient for known requirements.
The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation Implementation of the OMS and abatement programmes are often inherently difficult to estimate.
We began implementation of the OMS at 12 representative pilot sites.
They depend on the magnitude of any possible contamination, the timing Learnings from these pilots will be used to assess and improve the OMS and extent of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and before widening its introduction.
We intend for the whole of BP to have BPs share of liability relative to that of other solvent responsible parties.
commmenced use of the OMS by the end of 2010.
Though the costs of future restoration and remediation could be The OMS incorporates BPs principles for operating and provides a significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period framework to help deliver competence, then excellence, in operations in which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be and safety.
Standards for control of work and integrity management and material to the groups overall results of operations or financial position.
detailed practices in matters such as risk assessment provide further See Financial statements Note 37 on page 151 for the amounts underpinning.
Training and development programmes have been provided in respect of environmental remediation and decommissioning.
strengthened to develop the right capability and culture across the The groups operations are also subject to environmental and common organization.
law claims for personal injury and property damage caused by the release As described by BPs group chief executive, the OMS is the of chemicals, hazardous materials or petroleum substances by the group foundation for a safe, effective, and high-performing BP.
Fifteen proceedings involving governmental authorities are purposes: to further reduce HSE risks in our operations and to pending or known to be contemplated against BP and certain of its continuously improve the quality of those operations.
The systems subsidiaries under federal, state or local environmental laws, each of elements of operating describe eight dimensions of how people, which could result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
No processes, plant and performance operate within BP.
A continuous individual proceeding is, nor are the proceedings in aggregate, expected improvement process drives and sustains improvement of these to be material to the groups results of operations or financial position.
For information regarding Texas City and other reneries see Texas City renery on page 28, Other regulatory actions on page 29 and Legal Capability development proceedings on page 84.
We have initiated development programmes designed to ensure that BP For further information regarding spills in Alaska in 2006 see Legal has the capability among its people to achieve operational excellence and proceedings on page 84. identify and manage risks.
Management cannot predict future developments, such as The programmes support implementation of the OMS by developing increasingly strict requirements of environmental laws and resulting technical knowledge and skills.
They seek to improve management, enforcement policies that might affect the groups operations or affect behavioural, cultural and leadership skills to drive and sustain multi-year the exploration for new reserves or the products sold by the group.
A risk change in operations across multiple geographies.
of increased environmental costs and impacts is inherent in particular For instance, the operating essentials programme is tailored to staff in operations and products of the group and there can be no assurance that maintenance, operations and safety who have responsibility for material liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the future.
In general, managing front-line employees and contractors.
We completed operating the group does not expect that it will be affected differently from other essentials pilots in Anadarko North America gas, Angola and Kwinana companies with comparable assets engaged in similar businesses.
and started the first phase of the implementation at 11 other sites.
Management believes that the groups activities are in compliance in all The Operations Academy, provided in partnership with the material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is directed towards senior For a discussion of the groups environmental expenditure see page 53. operations and safety leaders of sites or large units.
BP operates in more than 100 countries worldwide.
In all regions of the world, BP has, or is developing, processes designed to ensure Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1038421029 42 compliance with applicable regulations.
In addition, each individual in the stricter emissions limits on large GHG sources and or the introduction of group is required to comply with BP health, safety and environmental a cap-and-trade programme on CO and other GHG emissions.
2 policies as embedded in the BP code of conduct.
Our partners, suppliers In an April 2007 decision, the US Supreme Court overruled a lower and contractors are also encouraged to adopt them.
court that had upheld a decision by the US Environmental Protection This Environment section focuses primarily on the US and the EU, Agency EPA not to regulate GHGs from motor vehicles under the Clean where around 65% of our xed assets are located, and on issues of a Air Act for climate change purposes.
The Supreme Courts ruling will global nature such as our operations and the environment, climate require the EPA to reconsider its prior decision on motor vehicle CO 2 change programmes and maritime oil spills regulations.
regulation and render a new decision in keeping with the Supreme Courts holding.
The court opinion is expected to make it difficult for the Our operations and the environment EPA not to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions in the future.
It is also During 2007, we continued to use environmental management systems expected to increase pressure on the EPA to regulate stationary sources to seek improvements on a wide range of environmental issues.
All our of GHGs e. g. reneries and chemical plants under other provisions of major sites, except one, are certied to the ISO 14001 international the Clean Air Act.
The Texas City renery, In September 2006, California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger after completing planned work to strengthen its environmental signed the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 AB 32 into management systems, is planning to seek recertication in early 2009. law.
In 2007, the California Air Resources Board CARB began the Following its approval in November 2006, we began the development of regulations that will ultimately reduce Californias GHG implementation of the group practice called the Environmental emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 an approximately 25% reduction from Requirements for New Projects ERNP.
This practice is a full life-cycle current levels.
CARB has initiated work on the Scoping Plan, which will environmental assessment process.
It requires all new projects to identify reduction programme mechanisms and timelines for achieving undertake screening to determine the potential environmental the 2020 target.
In advance of the Scoping Plan, CARB has taken early sensitivities associated with the proposed projects.
The highest level of actions with the development of mandatory GHG reporting and a Low environmental sensitivity in a new project requires more rigorous specic Carbon Fuel Standard LCFS.
The LCFS will require all reners, environmental management activities.
By the end of 2007, more than producers, blenders and importers to reduce the carbon intensity of 100 projects had begun implementation of ERNP including those in our transport fuel sold in California by 10% by 2020. alternative energy, upstream and downstream businesses.
Since 1997, BP has been actively involved in policy debate.
We also Since 2001, we have been focusing on measuring and improving the ran a global programme that reduced our operational GHG emissions by carbon intensity of our operations.
After six years, we estimate that our 10% between 1998 and 2001.
We continue to look at two principal kinds operations have delivered some 7 million tones Mte of GHG reductions.
of emissions: operational emissions, which are generated from our Our 2007 operational GHG emissions were 63.5Mte of CO equivalent operations such as reneries, chemicals plants and production facilities: 2 on a direct equity basis, nearly 1Mte lower than the reported gure of and product emissions, generated by our customers when they use the 64.4Mte in 2006. fuels and products that we sell.
Since 2001, we have been focusing on Many of our EU assets have been subject to the EU Emissions Trading measuring and improving the carbon intensity of our operations as well Scheme ETS since its launch in January 2005.
The number of as developing sustainable low-carbon technologies and businesses for installations actively participating in the scheme increased at the end of the future.
2007 when a temporary exclusion of exploration and production assets In 2007, as part of our engagement with technology development, expired.
After inclusion of these assets, around one-fifth of our reported two major BP-backed research institutes came into full operation: 2007 global GHG emissions are now covered by the scheme.
the Energy Biosciences Institute EBI in the US, and the Energy In 2007, no new decisions were taken by BP to explore or develop in Technologies Institute ETI in the UK.
The EBI is a strategic partnership World Conservation Union IUCN category I-IV areas.
We constantly try between BP, the University of California, Berkeley, the Lawrence to limit the environmental impact of our operations by seeking to use Berkeley National Laboratory and the University of Illinois, that will natural resources responsibly and reducing waste and emissions.
perform research into the production of new and cleaner energy, initially focusing on advanced biofuels for road transport.
The EBI will also Climate change programmes pursue bioscience-based research in three other key areas: the In response to rising concerns about climate change, governments conversion of heavy hydrocarbons to clean fuels, improved recovery from continue to identify scal and regulatory measures at local, national and existing oil and gas reservoirs and carbon sequestration.
In the UK, the international levels.
ETI has been established as a 50:50 public private partnership, funded In December 1997, at the Third Conference of the Parties to the equally by member companies, including BP, and the government.
The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC in ETI aims to accelerate the development, demonstration and eventual Kyoto, Japan, the participants agreed on a system of differentiated commercial deployment of a focused portfolio of energy technologies, international legally-binding targets for the first commitment period of which will increase energy efficiency, reduce GHG emissions and help 2008-2012.
In 2005, the Kyoto protocol came into force, committing the achieve energy security and climate change goals.
The ETI has issued its 176 participating countries to emissions targets.
However, Kyoto was first Invitation for expressions of interest to participate in programmes to only designed as a first step and policymakers continue to discuss what develop new technologies for offshore wind and for marine, tidal and new agreement might follow it after 2012, most recently at the UNFCCC wave energy.
conference in Bali in December 2007.
In the EU, the first phase of the EU ETS was completed at the end of Maritime oil spill regulations 2007, with EU ETS phase II running from 2008-2012.
The European Within the US, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 imposes oil spill Commission has approved all member-state Phase-II national allocation prevention requirements, spill response planning obligations and spill plans.
The European Commission also announced an intention to liability for tankers and barges transporting oil and for offshore facilities propose a legislative framework by mid-2008, to achieve the EU such as platforms and onshore terminals.
To ensure adequate funding for objective of 120 grams per kilometre CO for passenger cars and light response to oil spills and compensation for damages, when not fully 2 commercial vehicles.
covered by a responsible party, OPA 90 created a $1-billion fund that is The US congress continues to develop and review proposed climate nanced by a tax on imported and domestic oil.
This has recently been change legislation and regulation.
President Bush signed an Energy bill amended by the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act 2006 to into law in December 2007, which included stricter corporate average increase the size of the fund from $1 billion to $2.7 billion, through the fuel emissions standards for automobiles sold in the US and biofuel previously-mentioned tax, together with an increase in the liability of mandates.
A number of other bills currently under consideration propose double-hulled tankers from $1,200 per gross ton to $1,900 per gross ton.
In addition to OPA 90, which imposes liability for oil spills on the owners Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1443620767 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 43 and operators of the carrying vessel, some states implemented statutes The Clean Air Act and its regulations require, among other things, also imposing liability on the shippers or owners of oil spilled from such stringent air emission limits and operating permits for chemicals plants, vessels.
Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California are among these reneries, marine and distribution terminals: stricter fuel specications states.
The exposure of BP to such liability is mitigated by the vessels and sulphur reductions: enhanced monitoring of major sources of marine liability insurance, which has a maximum limit of $1 billion for specified pollutants: and risk management plans for storage of hazardous each accident or occurrence.
OPA 90 also provides that all new tank substances.
This law affects BP facilities producing, storing, rening, vessels operating in US waters must have double hulls and existing tank manufacturing and distributing oil and products as well as the fuels vessels without double hulls must be phased out by 2015.
Federal and state controls on ozone, particulate matter, with National Steel and Ship Building Company NASSCO for the carbon monoxide, benzene, sulphur, MTBE, nitrogen dioxide, oxygenates construction of four double-hulled tankers in San Diego, California.
The and Reid Vapor Pressure affect BPs activities and products in the US.
BP first of these new vessels began service in 2004, demise-chartered to is continually adapting its business to these rules, which are subject to and operated by Alaska Tanker Company ATC, which transports BP recent change.
Beginning January 2006, all gasoline produced by BP was Alaskan crude oil from Valdez.
NASSCO delivered two more in 2005 and subject to the EPAs stringent low-sulphur standards.
Furthermore, by the fourth was delivered in 2006.
At the end of 2007, the ATC eet June 2006, at least 80% of the highway diesel fuel produced each year consisted of five tankers, all double-hulled.
by BP was required to meet a sulphur cap of 15 parts per million ppm Outside the US, the BP-operated eet of tankers is subject to and 100% with effect from January 2010.
By June 2007, all non-road international spill response and preparedness regulations that are diesel fuel production had to meet a sulphur cap of 500ppm and 15ppm typically promulgated through the International Maritime Organization by June 2012.
With effect from January 2011, EPAs Mobile Source Air IMO and implemented by the relevant ag state authorities.
The Toxics regulations will require a renery annual average benzene level of International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 0.62 volume percentage on all gasoline.
Marpol 73 78 requires vessels to have detailed ship-board emergency The Energy Policy Act of 2005 also required several changes to the US and spill prevention plans.
The International Convention on Oil Pollution, fuels market with the following fuel provisions: elimination of the Federal Preparedness, Response and Co-operation requires vessels to have Reformulated Gasoline RFG oxygen requirement in May 2006: adequate spill response plans and resources for response anywhere the establishment of a renewable fuels mandate 4 billion gallons in 2006, vessel travels.
These conventions and separate Marine Environmental increasing to 7.5 billion in 2012 : consolidation of the summertime RFG Protection Circulars also stipulate the relevant state authorities around Volatile organic compound VOC standards for Regions 1 and 2: the globe that require engagement in the event of a spill.
All these provision to allow the Ozone Transport Commission states on the east requirements together are addressed by the vessel owners in Shipboard coast to opt any area into RFG: and a provision to allow states to repeal Oil Pollution Emergency Plans.
BP Shippings liabilities for oil pollution the 1psi Reid Vapor Pressure waiver for 10% ethanol blends.
damage under the OPA 90 and outside the US under the 1969 1992 In 2001, BP entered into a consent decree with the EPA and several International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage CLC states that settled alleged violations of various Clean Air Act are covered by marine liability insurance, having a maximum limit of requirements related largely to emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen $1 billion for each accident or occurrence.
This insurance cover is oxides at BPs reneries.
Implementation of the decrees requirements provided by three mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs : The United continues.
Kingdom Steam Ship Assurance Association Bermuda Limited: The The Clean Water Act is designed to protect and enhance the quality of Britannia Steam Ship Insurance Association Limited: and The Standard US surface waters by regulating the discharge of wastewater and other Steamship Owners Protection and Indemnity Association Bermuda discharges from both onshore and offshore operations.
With effect from 20 February 2006, two new complementary required to obtain permits for most surface water discharges, install voluntary oil pollution compensation schemes were introduced by tanker control equipment and implement operational controls and preventative owners, supported by their P&I Clubs, with the agreement of the measures, including spill prevention and control plans.
Requirements International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund at the IMO.
Pursuant to under the Clean Water Act have become more stringent in recent years, including coverage of storm and surface water discharges at many more both these schemes, tanker owners will voluntarily assume a greater liability for oil pollution compensation in the event of a spill of persistent facilities and increased control of toxic discharges.
New regulations are oil than is provided for in CLC.
The first scheme, the Small Tanker expected during the next several years that could require, for example, Owners Pollution indemnification Agreement STOPIA, provides additional wastewater treatment systems at some facilities.
for a minimum liability of 20 million Special Drawing Rights around The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA regulates the $30 million for a ship at or below 29,548 gross tons, while the second storage, handling, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous scheme, the Tanker Owners Pollution indemnification Agreement and non-hazardous wastes.
It also requires the investigation and TOPIA, provides for the tanker owner to take a 50% stake in the 2003 remediation of locations at a facility where such wastes have been Supplementary Fund, that is, an additional liability of up to 273.5 million handled, released or disposed of.
BP facilities generate and handle a Special Drawing Rights around $430 million.
Both STOPIA and TOPIA number of wastes regulated by RCRA and have units that have been will only apply to tankers whose owners are party to these agreements used for the storage, handling or disposal of RCRA wastes that are and who have entered their ships with P&I Clubs in the International subject to investigation and corrective action.
Group of P&I Clubs, so benefiting from those clubs pooling and Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation reinsurance arrangements.
All BP Shippings managed and timeand Liability Act CERCLA or Superfund, waste generators, site owners, chartered vessels participate in STOPIA and TOPIA.
facility operators and certain other parties are strictly liable for part or all At the end of 2007, we had 53 international vessels 39 medium-size of the cost of addressing sites contaminated by spills or waste disposal crude and product carriers, four very large crude carriers, one North Sea regardless of fault or the amount of waste sent to a site.
Additionally, shuttle tanker, five LNG carriers and four LPG carriers.
All these ships each state has separate laws similar to CERCLA.
Of the five LNG carriers, BP manages one on behalf of BP has been identied as a Potentially Responsible Party PRP under a joint venture in which it is a participant and operates four LNG carriers.
CERCLA or otherwise named under similar state statutes at Three further LNG carriers are on order for delivery in 2008.
In addition to approximately 805 sites.
A PRP or named party can incur joint and its own eet, BP will continue to charter quality ships: all vessels will several liability for site remediation costs under some of these statutes continue to be vetted prior to each use in accordance with the BP group and so BP may be required to assume, among other costs, the share ship vetting policy.
attributed to insolvent, unidentified or other parties.
BP has the most significant exposure for remediation costs at 52 of these sites.
For the US regional review remaining sites, the number of parties can range up to 200 or more.
BP The following is a summary of significant US environmental issues and expects its share of remediation costs at these sites to be small in legislation or regulations affecting the group.
comparison with the major sites.
BP has estimated its potential exposure Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 397940206 44 at all sites where it has been identied as a PRP or is otherwise named security legislation initiatives, which began in the fourth quarter of 2007 and has established provisions accordingly.
BP does not anticipate that and will continue through 2008: its ultimate exposure at these sites individually, or in aggregate, will be Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard CFATS rollout starting in significant, except as reported for Atlantic Richeld Company in the 2007 2008. matters below.
Transportation Workers Identication Credential TWIC rollout starting The US and the State of Montana seek to hold Atlantic Richeld in 2007 2008.
Company liable for environmental remediation, related costs and natural CFATS is new legislation that began implementation in the fourth resource damages arising out of mining-related activities by Atlantic quarter of 2007 and will continue through 2008.
It is intended to provide Richelds predecessors in the upper Clark Fork River Basin basin.
an enhanced security posture for US facilities that manufacture or store Federal and state trustees also seek to recover damages for alleged fuels.
Additionally, it will cover facilities that have national economic injuries to natural resources in the basin.
Past settlements resolved impact to the US, should these facilities be a target for terrorism.
A Atlantic Richelds alleged liability for portions of these claims.
In 2007, number of BP facilities will be impacted by this legislation.
Compliance the parties reached an agreement in principle in which Atlantic Richeld will require them to complete a screening review, and if not found to be agreed to pay approximately $169 million, plus interest, to settle all exempt, they will be required to conduct a detailed security vulnerability remaining claims for natural resource damages in the basin, and federal assessment and a detailed security plan for each facility impacted.
and state claims for environmental remediation and related costs in the TWIC is a new government employee background screening Clark Fork River operable unit and in portions of the Anaconda operable programme that is linked to the MTSA facilities.
The programme requires unit owned by the State of Montana.
Under the agreement, the State of all designated personnel with unescorted access to restricted areas of Montana agreed to use most of the settlement funds to remediate and the MTSA designated facilities to submit to a detailed background restore the identied areas.
The settlement must be lodged in federal screening programme and to be issued a bio-metric identication card.
court and is contingent on government review of public comments on All of BPs MTSA-regulated facilities will be impacted and will be required the settlement, and court approval of the settlement.
It includes limited to comply by the end of 2008 in a phased in approach.
reservations of rights against Atlantic Richeld.
Other portions of the BP has a national spill response team, the BP Americas Response basin, principally in Anaconda and Butte, still require remediation.
The Team BART, consisting of approximately 250 trained emergency estimated future cost of completing remedies that the EPA has selected responders at group locations throughout North America.
In addition to or proposed in the other remaining operable units in the basin is the BART, there are five Regional Response Incident Management approximately $290 million.
Past settlements between Atlantic Richeld, Teams, a number of HAZMAT Teams and emergency response teams at the US and the State of Montana, including consent decree settlements our major facilities.
Collectively, these teams are ready to assist in a in other portions of the basin, may provide a framework for future response to a major incident.
settlement of the remaining claims.
See also Legal proceedings on page 84.
The group is also subject to other claims for natural resource damages NRD under CERCLA, OPA 90 and other federal and state laws.
NRD European Union regional review claims have been asserted by government trustees against a number of Within the EU, European Community legislation is proposed by the group operations.
This is a developing area of the law that could affect European Commission EC and usually adopted jointly by the European the cost of addressing environmental conditions at some sites in the Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
It must then be implemented by future.
When implementing EU legislation, member In the US, many environmental clean-ups are the result of strict states must ensure that penalties for non-compliance are effective, groundwater protection standards at both the state and federal level.
proportionate and dissuasive, and must usually designate a competent Contamination or the threat of contamination of current or potential authority regulatory body for implementation.
Where the EC believes drinking water resources can result in stringent clean-up requirements that a member state has failed fully and correctly to transpose and implement EU legislation, it can take the member state to the European even if the water is not being used for drinking water.
Some states have Court of Justice, which can order the member state to comply and in even addressed contamination of non-potable water resources using similarly strict standards.
BP has encouraged risk-based approaches to certain cases can impose monetary penalties on the member state.
A these issues and seeks to tailor remedies at its facilities to match the few non-EU states may also agree to apply EU environmental legislation, level of risk presented by the contamination.
in particular under the framework of the European Economic Area Other significant legislation includes the Toxic Substances Control Act, agreement.
which regulates the development, testing, import, export and An EC directive for a system of integrated pollution prevention and introduction of new chemical products into commerce: the Occupational control IPPC was adopted in 1996.
This system requires certain listed Safety and Health Act, which imposes workplace safety and health, industrial installations, including most activities and processes training and process safety requirements to reduce the risks of physical undertaken by the oil and petrochemicals industry within the EU, to and chemical hazards and injury to employees: and the Emergency obtain an IPPC permit, which is designed to address an installations Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, which requires emergency environmental impacts, air emissions, water discharges and waste in a planning and spill notication as well as public disclosure of chemical comprehensive fashion.
The permit requires, among other things, the usage and emissions.
In addition, the US Department of Transport DOT, application of Best Available Techniques BAT, taking into account the through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, costs and benets, unless an applicable environmental quality standard comprehensively regulates the transportation of the groups petroleum requires more stringent restrictions, and an assessment of existing products such as crude oil, gasoline and chemicals to protect the health environmental impacts and future site closure obligations.
All such plants and safety of the public.
had to obtain such a permit by 30 October 2007 and permits may include BP is subject to the Marine Transportation Security Act MTSA and an environmental improvement programme.
The EC is currently the DOT Hazardous Materials HAZMAT security compliance regulations reviewing the IPPC directive with the primary aim of merging several in the US.
These regulations require many of our US businesses to separate directives related to industrial emissions into a single directive.
conduct security vulnerability assessments and prepare security Initial indications suggest there is a strong desire by the EC to propose a mitigation plans that require the implementation of upgrades to security more prescriptive piece of legislation with a greater emphasis on measures, the appointment and training of designated security personnel mandating emission limits contained in guidance documents.
In and the submission of plans for approval and inspection by government particular, the review is likely to propose more stringent regulations of agencies.
combustion plant with scope increased to include plants down to 20MW The US government, in an effort to further mitigate the threat of thermal input, extend IPPC to cover organic chemical manufacture by terrorism to critical US infrastructure, is additionally mandating two new biological treatment biofuels and may open the way for NOx and SOx trading by member states.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:39 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -371984629 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 45 In 2005, the EC published its Thematic Strategy on Air Pollution, which pose to human health and the environment.
Time limited authorizations outlines EU-wide targets for health and environmental benets from may be granted for substances of high concern.
Crude oil and natural improved air quality to be achieved through further controls on emissions gas are exempt, while fuels will be exempted from authorization but not of ne particulates PM 2.5 particulate matter less than 2.5 microns registration.
In BP, REACH will affect our rening, petrochemicals and diameter, sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, volatile organic other chemical manufacturing operations, with many other businesses, compounds and ammonia.
Associated with this are two important such as lubricants, also being impacted in their roles as an importer or directives.
BPs updated broad estimate there are The first is the Ambient Air Quality and Cleaner Air for Europe still many unknowns indicates that the cost impacts of REACH for BP, Directive AAQD.
This consolidates existing ambient air quality legislation covering hundreds of registrations, are expected to be in the region of which prescribes ambient air quality limit values for sulphur dioxide, $60 million over the period 2008-2018, with about two-thirds in the oxides of nitrogen, particulate matter, lead, carbon monoxide, ozone, period 2008-2010.
Additional costs, for example submissions for cadmium, arsenic, nickel, mercury and polyaromatic hydrocarbons and authorization for relevant substances and the modication of safety data introduces new controls on the concentration of ne particles in ambient sheets, will have to be assessed further as the regulation is air.
If the concentration of a pollutant exceeds air quality limit values plus implemented.
a margin of tolerance, or there is a risk of exceeding the limit, a member The EC adopted a Directive on Environmental Liability on 21 April state is required to take action to reduce emissions.
From 30 April 2007, member states must usually require the BP operations whose emissions contribute to such exceedances.
operators of activities that cause significant damage to water, ecological The second is a revision to the National Emissions Ceiling Directive resources or land after that date to undertake restoration of that damage.
This will introduce new emissions ceilings for each member Provision is also made for reporting and tackling imminent threats of state for ne particles and will tighten existing ceilings for sulphur such damage.
dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, volatile organic compounds and ammonia, in During the past two years, BP has contributed actively to the High order to achieve the health and environmental benets set in the Level Group on Competitiveness, Energy and the Environment chaired by Thematic Strategy referenced above.
The ceilings set for a member state the EC and involving a range of stakeholders from EU member states, will trigger a range of abatement measures across industrial sectors that industry, regulators, NGOs and trade unions.
This group worked are assessed as being a cost effective means of achieving the ceiling.
successfully on a consensus basis, to offer a range of recommendations Recent climate change targets announced by the European Council in to the EC intended to support energy and environmental policy objectives March 2007, together with developments in the atmospheric modeling while advancing the competitiveness of the European economy.
that underpins the Thematic Strategy and NECD, mean that the proposal In early 2008, the EC is expected to release a directive on the for the revision has been delayed until early summer 2008 and may be geological storage of CO and an accompanying communication 2 more stringent and therefore more costly for industry than anticipated.
regarding incentives for carbon capture and storage CCS.
The intention In early 2007, the EC published its proposal to amend the current EU of the regulation is in part to identify regulatory barriers that may restrict Fuel Quality Directive.
This directive seeks to set environment limits on CCS technologies, so that those barriers can be appropriately addressed, gasoline and diesel road transport fuels, and as such is linked historically and to identify common methodologies to be implemented across EU to the EU legislation on vehicle passenger car and heavy duty regulated member states.
emissions the Euro standards and has previously set the legislative In 2005, the EC published a proposed EC Marine Strategy Directive, timetable for the introduction of ultra-low sulphur 50ppm and sulphurwhich would adopt an approach similar to that in the Water Framework free 510ppm fuels.
However, a major theme of the ECs new proposal Directive by requiring achievement of good environmental status for concerns biofuel policy, both directly in terms of a proposal to set life marine waters by 2021 through the implementation of programmes of cycle GHG emission reductions and indirectly in terms of attempting measures.
The legislation may have some impact on BPs upstream facilitating the introduction of biofuels into gasoline and diesel.
operations in the North Sea.
Another environment-related regulation that may have an impact on Specically the key elements of the ECs current proposal are: BPs operations is the Major Hazards Directive, which, for the sites to Conrmation of the 1 January 2009 sulphur-free 510ppm deadline date for road diesel alignment with the gasoline deadline.
which it applies, requires emergency planning, public disclosure of The reduction of non-road gasoil sulphur and inland waterway gasoil emergency plans and ensuring that hazards are assessed and effective sulphur to 10ppm by 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2011 emergency management systems are in place.
The reduction of the Poly-cyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon PAH Property, plants and equipment specication in diesel from 11% by weight to 8% by weight.
The creation of a separate grade of gasoline allowing the blending to up to 10% by volume ethanol or its equivalent.
BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in numerous The provision of a summer-time gasoline vapour pressure waiver for countries, but no individual property is significant to the group as a blends containing ethanol.
SeeExploration  Article 7a, requiring fuel suppliers to reduce the life-cycle GHG the groups significant reserves and sources of crude oil and natural gas.
emissions from road transport fuels by 10% by 2020. significant plans to construct, expand or improve specic facilities are The key items of impact to BP are the attempt to create an additional described under each of the business headings within this section.
gasoline grade, and Article 7a and its potential impact on conventional gasoline and diesel.
Organizational structure Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals REACH legislation became effective 1 June 2007 across all member states of the EU.
All chemical substances manufactured in, or imported into, the EU in The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2007 and to the quantities above 1 tonne per annum must be registered by each group percentage of ordinary share capital to the nearest whole number manufacturer importer with the new European Chemical Agency ECHA are set out in Financial statements Note 46 on page 167.
See Financial based in Helsinki, Finland.
Registration will occur during the period 2008- statements Notes 26 and 27 on pages 134 and 135 respectively for 2018, with the exact timing being determined by the volumes of information on significant jointly controlled entities and associates of the chemicals manufactured imported, and by the hazard the chemical may group.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:40 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1265243167 46 Financial and operating performance Group operating results The following summarizes the groups operating results.
See Financial statements Note 3 on page 110. Business environment Hydrocarbon production Crude oil prices reached new record highs in 2007 in nominal terms.
The Our total hydrocarbon production during 2007 averaged 2,549mboe d for average dated Brent price rose to $72.39 per barrel, an increase of 11% subsidiaries and 1,269mboe d for equity-accounted entities, a decrease over the $65.14 per barrel average seen in 2006.
Daily prices began the of 3% 3.5% for liquids and 2.6% for gas and 2% 1.3% for liquids and year at $58.62 per barrel and rose to $96.02 per barrel at year-end due to 8.4% for gas respectively compared with 2006.
In aggregate, the OPEC production cuts in early 2007, sustained consumption growth and decrease primarily reected the effect of disposals and net entitlement the resulting drop in commercial inventories after the summer.
Compared with 2005, 2006 hydrocarbon Natural gas prices in the US and the UK declined in 2007.
The Henry production for subsidiaries decreased by 3.3% in 2006 reecting a Hub First of Month Index averaged $6.86 per mmBtu, 5% lower than the decrease of 5.1% for liquids and a decrease of 1.3% for natural gas.
Prices were pressured by record LNG Increases in production in our new profit centres were offset by imports in summer, continued domestic production growth and anticipated decline in our existing profit centres and the effect of inventories that set a new record at the end of the storage injection disposals.
Hydrocarbon production for equity-accounted entities season.
Average UK gas prices fell to 29.95 pence per therm at the increased by 0.1%, reecting a decrease of 1.3% for liquids and an National Balancing Point in 2007, 29% below the 2006 average of increase of 10.2% for natural gas.
Rening margins reached a new record high in 2007, with the BP profit attributable to BP shareholders Global Indicator Margin GIM averaging $9.94 per barrel.
The premium profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December for light products above fuel oils remained exceptionally high, reecting a 2007 was $20,845 million, including inventory holding gains of $3,558 continuing shortage of upgrading capacity and favouring fully upgraded million.
Inventory holding gains or losses are described in footnote a reneries over less complex sites.
profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended The retail environment continued to be extremely competitive in 2007 31 December 2006 was $22,000 million, after inventory holding losses of with market volatility, high absolute prices, as well as a rising crude $253 million.
profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended market.
31 December 2005 was $22,341 million, including inventory holding The business environment in 2006 was mixed compared with 2005, gains of $3,027 million.
The profit attributable to BP shareholders for the but still robust in comparison with historical averages.
Crude oil and UK year ended 31 December 2006 included a loss from Innovene operations natural gas prices increased, while US natural gas prices and global of $25 million, compared with a profit of $184 million in the year ended rening margins fell.
The loss profit from Innovene for the years 2006 and The dated Brent price averaged $65.14 per barrel, an increase of more 2005 included losses on remeasurement to fair value of $184 million and than $10 per barrel over the $54.48 per barrel average seen in 2005, and $591 million respectively.
Financial statements Note 3 on page 110 varied between $78.69 and $55.89 per barrel.
Prices peaked in early provides further financial information for Innovene.
August before retreating in the face of a mild hurricane season and rising profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December inventories.
OPEC action late in the year helped support prices.
2007 included net gains of $2,132 million on the disposal of assets: and Natural gas prices in the US declined in 2006 compared with 2005, but was after net impairment charges of $1,324 million, a further charge of remained well above historical averages.
The Henry Hub First of Month $500 million in respect of the March 2005 Texas City renery incident, a Index averaged $7.24 per mmBtu, $1.41 per mmBtu below the 2005 charge of $338 million associated with restructuring with a further average of $8.65 per mmBtu.
Rising production and weak consumption charge of $1 billion expected in 2008, a charge of $185 million in relation resulted in above average inventories, depressing gas prices relative to to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and other provisions, a crude oil.
UK gas prices rose slightly in 2006, averaging 42.19 pence per charge of $91 million in respect of a donation to the BP Foundation, a net therm at the National Balancing Point, compared with a 2005 average of fair value loss of $7 million on embedded derivatives these embedded 40.71 pence per therm.
derivatives are fair valued at each period end with the resulting gains or Rening margins were only slightly lower in 2006, with the BP GIM losses taken to the income statement and a charge of $410 million in averaging $8.39 per barrel.
This reected further oil demand growth, respect of the reassessment of certain provisions.
profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December lingering effects on US renery production from the 2005 hurricanes and gasoline formulation changes in several US states.
The premium for light 2006 included net gains of $3,286 million on the disposal of assets, net products over fuel oils remained exceptionally high, favouring upgraded fair value gains of $608 million on embedded derivatives and a credit of reneries over less complex sites.
$44 million in relation to new, and revisions to existing, environmental Retail margins improved slightly in 2006, benefiting from a decline in and other provisions: and was after a charge of $925 million in respect of the cost of product during the second half of the year, despite intense the March 2005 Texas City renery incident, a charge of $535 million competition.
relating to the reassessment of certain provisions, a charge of $155 million in respect of a donation to the BP Foundation and a net impairment charge of $121 million.
20,641 17,231 14,149 The primary additional factors reected in profit for 2007, compared Disposals 4,267 6,254 11,200 with 2006, were higher liquids realizations, stronger rening and ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Net investment 16,374 10,977 2,949 marketing margins and improved NGLs performance: however, these were more than offset by lower gas realizations, lower reported production volumes, higher production taxes in Alaska, higher costs Capital expenditure and acquisitions in 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to primarily reecting the impact of sector-specic ination and higher $20,641 million, $17,231 million and $14,149 million respectively.
integrity spend, the impact of outages and recommissioning costs at the Acquisitions in 2007 included the remaining 31% of the Rotterdam Texas City and Whiting reneries, reduced supply optimization benets Nerefco renery from Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing company.
and a lower contribution from the marketing and trading business in the There were no significant acquisitions in 2006 or 2005.
Gas, Power and Renewables segment.
Excluding acquisitions and asset exchanges, capital expenditure for The primary additional factors reected in profit attributable to BP 2007 was $19,194 million compared with $16,910 million in 2006 and shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2006 compared with 2005 $13,938 million in 2005.
In 2006, this included $1 billion in respect of our were higher oil realizations, higher rening margins including the benefit investment in Rosneft.
of supply optimization, higher retail margins although this was partially offset by a deterioration in other marketing margins and higher Finance costs and other finance income expense contributions from the operating businesses in the Gas, Power and Finance costs comprises group interest less amounts capitalized.
Finance Renewables segment: these were offset by the ongoing impact costs for continuing operations in 2007 were $1,110 million compared following the Texas City renery shutdown, lower gas realizations, lower with $718 million in 2006 and $616 million in 2005.
The charge in 2007 production volumes and higher costs.
reected a higher average gross debt balance than in prior years, and profits and margins for the group and for individual business segments lower capitalized interest than in 2006 as capital construction projects can vary signicantly from period to period as a result of changes in such concluded.
The increase for 2006 compared with 2005 reected higher factors as oil prices, natural gas prices and rening margins.
Accordingly, interest rates, partially offset by increased capitalized interest.
Finance the results for the current and prior periods do not necessarily reect costs in 2005 included a charge of $57 million arising from early trends, nor do they provide indicators of results for future periods.
Employee numbers were approximately 97,600 at 31 December 2007, Other finance income expense included net pension finance costs, the 97,000 at 31 December 2006 and 96,200 at 31 December 2005. interest accretion on provisions and, for 2005 and 2006, the interest accretion on the deferred consideration for the acquisition of our a Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the cost of investment in TNK-BP.
Other finance income for continuing operations in sales calculated using the average cost of supplies incurred during the year and the 2007 was $369 million compared with $202 million in 2006 and a net cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out FIFO method.
Under the FIFO expense of $145 million in 2005.
The increase in income year on year method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged to the income statement is based on the historic cost of acquisition or manufacture rather largely reects the higher return on pension assets as the pension asset than the current replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, this can have a base applicable to each year increased, reecting rising asset market significant distorting effect on reported income.
The amounts disclosed represent valuations.
the difference between the charge to the income statement on a FIFO basis and the charge that would arise using average cost of supplies incurred during the period.
For this purpose average cost of supplies incurred during the period is Taxation calculated by dividing the total cost of inventory purchased in the period by the The charge for corporate taxes for continuing operations in 2007 number of barrels acquired.
The amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial statements as a gain or loss.
was $10,442 million, compared with $12,331 million in 2006 and BPs management believes this information is useful to illustrate to investors the $9,473 million in 2005.
The effective rate was 33% in 2007, 36% in 2006 fact that crude oil and product prices can vary significantly from period to period and and 30% in 2005.
The reduction in the effective rate in 2007 compared that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to period due principally to changes in oil with 2006 primarily reects the reduction in the UK tax rate and a prices as well as changes to underlying inventory levels.
In order for investors to higher proportion of income arising in countries bearing a lower tax understand the operating performance of the group excluding the impact of oil price rate and other factors.
The increase in the effective rate in 2006 changes on the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management believes it is helpful to compared with 2005 reected the impact of the increase in the North disclose this information.
Sea tax rate enacted by the UK government in July 2006 and the absence of non-recurring benets that were present in 2005. Business results profit before interest and taxation from continuing operations, which is before finance costs, other finance expense, taxation and minority interests, was $32,352 million in 2007, $35,158 million in 2006 and $32,682 million in 2005.
b The Exploration and Production segment does not undertake any hedging activity.
c Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
f Expressed in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
Sales and other operating revenues for 2007 were $55 billion, compared holding gains of $11 million: and was after a net impairment charge of with $53 billion in 2006 and $47 billion in 2005.
The increase in 2007 $55 million, restructuring costs of $166 million, a charge of $168 million primarily reected an increase of around $3.5 billion related to higher in respect of the reassessment of certain provisions and a charge of realizations, partially offset by a decrease of around $1.5 billion due to $12 million in respect of new, and revisions to existing, environmental lower volumes of subsidiaries.
The increase in 2006 primarily reected an and other provisions.
increase of around $6 billion related to higher liquids and gas realizations, profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 partially offset by a decrease of around $1 billion due to lower volumes was $29,629 million, including net gains of $2,114 million on the sales of of subsidiaries.
assets primarily gains from the sales of our interest in the Shenzi profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 discovery in the Gulf of Mexico in the US and interests in the North Sea was $26,938 million, including net gains of $907 million on the sales of offset by a loss on the sale of properties in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf, net assets primarily gains from the disposal of our production and gas fair value gains of $515 million on embedded derivatives and a net infrastructure in the Netherlands, our interests in non-core Permian impairment credit of $203 million comprising a $340 million credit for assets in the US and our interests in the Entrada eld in the Gulf of reversals of previously booked impairments partially offset by a charge of Mexico, net fair value gains of $47 million on embedded derivatives $109 million against intangible assets relating to properties in Alaska, and these embedded derivatives are fair valued at each period end with the other individually insignicant impairments, and was after inventory resulting gains or losses taken to the income statement and inventory Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:41 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1011826887 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 49 holding losses of $18 million and charges for legal provisions of around $1,000 million due to the absence of disposal gains in 2006 in $335 million.
profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and was $25,502 million, including inventory holding gains of $17 million and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 compared with the year ended net gains of $1,159 million on the sales of assets, primarily from our 31 December 2005 were higher overall realizations contributing around interest in the Ormen Lange eld in Norway, and was after net fair value $5,050 million liquids realizations were higher and gas realizations were losses of $1,688 million on embedded derivatives, an impairment charge lower, partially offset by decreases of around $1,825 million due to of $226 million in respect of elds in the Gulf of Mexico, a charge for lower reported volumes, $350 million due to higher production taxes impairment of $40 million relating to elds in the UK North Sea and a and $1,950 million due to higher costs, reecting the impacts of charge of $265 million on the cancellation of an intra-group gas supply sector-specic ination, increased integrity spend and revenue contract.
Additionally, BPs share of the TNK-BP result was higher The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and by around $500 million, primarily reecting higher disposal gains.
tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 compared with the year ended Total production for 2007 was 2,549mboe d for subsidiaries and 31 December 2006 were higher overall realizations contributing around 1,269mboe d for equity-accounted entities, compared with 2,629mboe d $3,000 million liquids realizations were higher and gas realizations were and 1,297mboe d respectively in 2006.
In aggregate, the decrease lower and a favourable effect from lagged tax reference prices in primarily reected the effect of disposals and net entitlement reductions TNK-BP contributing around $500 million: however, these factors were in our PSAs.
more than offset by decreases of around $1,000 million due to lower Total production for 2006 was 2,629mboe d for subsidiaries and reported volumes, around $200 million due to higher production taxes in 1,297mboe d for equity-accounted entities, compared with 2,718mboe d Alaska and around $2,800 million due to higher costs, reecting the and 1,296mboe d respectively in 2005.
For subsidiaries, increases in impacts of sector-specic ination, increased integrity spend and higher production in our new profit centres were offset by anticipated decline in depreciation charges.
Additionally, the full-year result was lower by our existing profit centres and the effect of disposals.
b The GIM is the average of regional industry indicator margins that we weight for BPs crude refining capacity in each region.
The refining margins are industry-specific rather than BP-specific measures, which we believe are useful to investors in analyzing trends in the industry and their impact on our results.
No account is taken of BPs other cash and non-cash costs of refining, such as wages and salaries and plant depreciation.
The indicator margin may not be representative of the margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refining configurations and crude and product slate.
c Refining availability is defined as the ratio of units that are available for processing, regardless of whether they are actually being used, to total capacity.
Where there is planned maintenance, such capacity is not regarded as being available.
During 2006 and 2007, there was planned maintenance of a substantial part of the Texas City refinery.
The changes in sales and other operating revenues are explained in more detail below.
The increase in 2007 volumes of $2 billion.
Additionally, sales of crude oil, spot and term compared with 2006 was principally due to an increase of around contracts increased by $4 billion, primarily reecting higher prices, and $17 billion in marketing, spot and term sales of rened products.
This other sales decreased by $3 billion, due to lower volumes of $4 billion was due to higher prices of $13 billion and a positive foreign exchange partially offset by a positive foreign exchange impact of $1 billion.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:41 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -260647249 50 Sales and other operating revenues for 2006 was $233 billion, and net gains of $177 million principally on the divestment of a number compared with $213 billion in 2005 and $171 billion in 2004.
The increase of regional retail networks in the US, and is after a charge of $700 million in 2006 compared with 2005 was principally due to an increase of around related to the March 2005 incident at the Texas City renery, a charge of $23 billion in marketing, spot and term sales of rened products.
This $140 million relating to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and was due to higher prices of $25 billion, partially offset by lower volumes other provisions, an impairment charge of $93 million and a charge of of $2 billion.
Additionally, sales of crude oil, spot and term contracts $33 million for the impairment of an equity-accounted entity.
increased by $2 billion, reecting higher prices of $6 billion and lower During 2007, the segment continued to focus on the restoration of volumes of $4 billion, and other sales decreased by $5 billion, primarily operations at the Texas City renery and on investments in integrity due to lower volumes.
management throughout our rening portfolio.
We have also focused on profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 the repair and recommissioning of the Whiting renery following the was $6,072 million, including net disposal gains of $1,151 million operational issues in March 2007.
In many parts of the rening portfolio primarily related to the sale of BPs Coryton renery in the UK, its and the other market-facing businesses, we delivered high reliability and interest in the West Texas pipeline system in the US and its interest in improved results compared with 2006.
However, for the full year, the Samsung Petrochemical Company in South Korea and inventory compared with 2006, the impact of the outages and recommissioning holding gains of $3,455 million: and was after impairment charges of costs at the Texas City and Whiting reneries, as well as investments in $1,186 million primarily related to the sale of the majority of our US integrity management and scheduled turnarounds throughout our rening Convenience Retail business, a write-down of certain assets at our portfolio, reduced the result by around $1,600 million, cost ination Hull site and a write-down of our Mexico retail assets, a charge of reduced the result by around $100 million and lower results from supply $500 million related to the March 2005 Texas City renery incident, a optimization decreased the result by around $1,500 million.
These factors charge of $138 million relating to new, and revisions to existing, more than offset increased margins in both rening and marketing that environmental and other provisions, a restructuring charge of $118 contributed around $1,150 million.
million, a charge of $91 million in respect of a donation to the BP In comparison with the year ended 31 December 2005, profit before Foundation and a charge of $70 million related to the reassessment of interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 reected higher certain provisions.
rening margins including the benefit of supply optimization, which profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 contributed around $900 million, higher retail margins by around was $5,041 million, including net disposal gains of $884 million related $600 million although this was partially offset by a deterioration of primarily to the sale of BPs Czech Republic retail business, the disposal around $150 million in other marketing margins and lower costs of BPs shareholding in Zhenhai Rening and Chemicals Company, the associated with rationalization programmes of around $320 million.
sale of BPs shareholding in Eiffage, the French-based construction There was a reduction of around $1.1 billion due to the impact of the company, and pipelines assets, and was after inventory holding losses progressive recommissioning of Texas City during the year.
efficiency of $242 million, a charge of $925 million related to the March 2005 programmes delivered lower operating costs although the savings were incident at the Texas City renery, an impairment charge of $155 million, offset by higher turnaround and integrity management spend.
a charge of $155 million in respect of a donation to the BP Foundation The average rening Global Indicator Margin GIM in 2007 was higher and a charge of $33 million relating to new, and revisions to existing, than in 2006. environmental and other provisions.
Rening throughputs in 2007 were 2,127mb d, 71mb d lower than in profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 2006.
Rening availability was 82.9%, broadly consistent with 2006. was $6,926 million, including inventory holding gains of $2,532 million Marketing volumes at 3,806mb d were around 2% lower than in 2006.
Gas marketing sales decreased by $2.8 billion $0.4 billion related to higher prices.
Other sales including NGLs reecting a decrease of $0.9 billion related to lower volumes and a marketing increased by $1.8 billion due to higher prices.
Gas marketing decrease of $1.9 billion related to lower prices.
Other sales including sales volumes declined in 2007 and 2006 primarily due to customer NGLs marketing increased by $0.5 billion, reecting an increase of portfolio changes.
$0.8 billion related to higher prices, partially offset by a decrease of profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 $0.3 billion related to lower volumes.
Sales and other operating revenues was $674 million, including inventory holding gains of $116 million and were $24 billion in 2006, compared with $26 billion in 2005.
Gas net disposal gains of $12 million: and was after a net fair value charge of marketing sales declined by $3.8 billion, reecting a decrease of Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:41 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -207671402 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 51 $47 million on embedded derivatives, impairment charges of $40 million in the UK, and was after net fair value losses of $346 million on and restructuring charges of $22 million.
embedded derivatives and a credit of $6 million related to new, and profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 revisions to existing, environmental and other provisions.
was $1,321 million, including net gains of $193 million, primarily on the The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and tax disposal of our interest in Enagas, and net fair value gains of $88 million for the year ended 31 December 2007, compared with the equivalent on embedded derivatives, and was after inventory holding losses of period in 2006, were lower contributions from the marketing and trading $55 million and a charge $100 million for the impairment of a North businesses of around $700 million partially offset by improved NGLs American NGLs asset.
profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and tax was $1,172 million, including inventory holding gains of $95 million, for the year ended 31 December 2006, compared with the equivalent compensation of $265 million received on the cancellation of an intraperiod in 2005, were higher contributions from the operating businesses group gas supply contract and net gains of $55 million primarily on the of around $100 million.
Other businesses and corporate comprises treasury which includes all of $94 million in relation to new, and revisions to existing, environmental the groups cash, cash equivalents and finance debt balances and and other provisions, a net gain on disposal of $95 million and a net fair associated interest income and finance costs, the groups aluminium value gain of $5 million on embedded derivatives: and was after a charge asset, and corporate activities worldwide.
of $200 million relating to the reassessment of certain provisions and an The loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 impairment charge of $69 million.
was $1,128 million, including a net gain on disposal of $62 million: and The loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 was after inventory holding losses of $24 million, a charge of $35 million was $1,237 million, including a net gain on disposal of $38 million: and in relation to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and other was after a net charge of $278 million relating to new, and revisions to provisions, a charge of $32 million in respect of restructuring costs, an existing, environmental and other provisions and the reversal of impairment charge of $43 million, a net fair value loss of $7 million on environmental provisions no longer required, a charge of $134 million in embedded derivatives and a charge of $172 million relating to the respect of the separation of the Olens and Derivatives business and net reassessment of certain provisions.
fair value losses of $13 million on embedded derivatives.
The loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 was $885 million, including inventory holding gains of $62 million, a credit Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:42 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -317436846 52 Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on BP uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure market conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, than spot prices resulting in measurement differences.
natural gas and petroleum products as well as certain contracts to supply The Gas, Power and Renewables business enters into contracts for physical volumes at future dates.
Under IFRS, these inventories and pipelines and storage capacity that, under IFRS, are recorded on an contracts are recorded at historic cost and on an accruals basis accruals basis.
These contracts are risk managed using a variety of respectively.
The related derivative instruments, however, are required to derivative instruments that are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized in income measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not followed, The way that BP manages the economic exposures described above, principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness testing requirements.
and measures performance internally, differs from the way these Therefore, measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains activities are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference by and losses occur.
Gains and losses on these inventories and contracts comparing the IFRS result with managements internal measure of are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a subsequent performance, under which the inventory and the supply and capacity accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative commodity contracts in question are valued based on fair value using relevant contracts are recognized in the income statement from the time the forward prices prevailing at the end of the period.
We believe that derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value basis using disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
information for investors because it enables investors to see the IFRS requires that inventory held for trading be recorded at its fair economic effect of these activities as a whole.
The impacts of value using period end spot prices whereas any related derivative fair value accounting effects, relative to managements internal measure commodity instruments are required to be recorded at values based on of performance, are shown in the table below.
We expect suppliers to comply with legal requirements Operating expenditure 662 596 494 and we seek to do business with suppliers who act in line with BPs Clean-ups 62 59 43 commitments to compliance and ethics, as outlined in the code of Capital expenditure 1,033 806 789 conduct.
We engage with suppliers in a variety of ways, including Additions to environmental performance review meetings to identify mutually advantageous remediation provision 373 423 565 ways to improve performance.
Additions to decommissioning provision 1,163 2,142 1,023 Creditor payment policy and practice Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act 1985 require Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement companies to make a statement of their policy and practice in respect of or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred the payment of trade creditors.
In view of the international nature of the as a separately identiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a larger groups operations there is no specic group-wide policy in respect of transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance expenditure.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, The gures for environmental operating and capital expenditure in the governed by the groups policy commitment to long-term relationships table are therefore estimates, based on the denitions and guidelines of founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this overall policy, the American Petroleum Institute.
individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and The increase in environmental operating expenditure in 2007 conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are compared with 2006 is primarily due to increased integrity management awareofthe termsofpayment.
activity and activity associated with the implementation of the Baker Panel recommendations.
The increase in environmental operating Contributing to communities expenditure in 2006 compared with 2005 is largely related to expenditure We make direct contributions to communities through community incurred on reducing air emissions at US reneries.
Our total contribution in 2007 was $135.8 million.
This operating and capital expenditures are expected in the foreseeable includes $0.7 million contributed by BP to UK charities.
In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also create focus of this is on education, the development of local enterprise and provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against providing access to energy in remote locations.
such provisions is normally in subsequent periods and is not included in In 2007, we spent $77.7 million promoting education, with investment environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
The in three broad areas: energy and the environment: business leadership charge for environmental remediation provisions in 2007 includes skills: and basic education in developing countries where we operate $339 million resulting from a reassessment of existing site obligations large projects.
and $34 million in respect of provisions for new sites.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount reasonably determinable.
Generally, their timing coincides with commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The extent and cost of future remediation programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They depend on the scale of any possible contamination, the timing and extent of corrective actions and also the groups share of liability.
Although the cost of any future remediation could be significant and may be material to the result of operations in the period in which it is recognized, we do not expect that such costs will have a material effect on the groups financial position or liquidity.
We believe our provisions are sufficient for known requirements: we do not believe that our costs will differ signicantly from those of other companies engaged in similar industries, or that our competitive position will be adversely affected as a result.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasproducing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility a provision is established that represents the discounted value of the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
Additionally, we undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
The level of increase in the decommissioning provision varies with the number of new elds coming onstream in a particular year and the outcome of the periodic reviews.
Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are usually set up on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions appear in Financial statements Note 37 on page 151.
See also Environment on page 41.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:42 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1519647081 54 Liquidity and capital resources Cash ow The following table summarizes the groups cash ows.
The equivalent period of 2006 reecting an increase in working capital reduction in 2007 compared with 2006 reects a reduction in net requirements of $6,282 million, a decrease in profit before taxation from repurchases of shares of $8,038 million and an increase in proceeds from continuing operations of $3,031 million, a decrease in dividends from long-term nancing of $4,278 million: these were partially offset by a net jointly controlled entities and associates of $2,022 million: these were decrease in short-term debt of $2,379 million.
The lower outow in 2006 partially offset by a decrease in income taxes paid of $4,661 million, a compared with 2005 reects a net increase in short-term debt of lower net credit for impairment and gain loss on sale of businesses and $5,330 million, a decrease in repayments of long-term nancing of xed assets of $2,357 million and higher depreciation, depletion and $1,165 million and higher proceeds from long-term nancing of amortization of $1,451 million.
$1,356 million, partially offset by an increase in the net repurchase of Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended shares of $3,836 million.
31 December 2006 was $28,172 million, compared with $26,721 million The group has had significant levels of capital investment for many for the equivalent period of 2005, reecting a decrease in working capital years.
Cashow in respect of capital investment, excluding acquisitions, requirements of $4,817 million, an increase in profit before taxation from was $18.4 billion in 2007, $15.7 billion in 2006 and $13.1 billion in 2005. continuing operations of $2,721 million and an increase in dividends from Sources of funding are completely fungible, but the majority of the jointly controlled entities and associates of $1,662 million: these were groups funding requirements for new investment come from cash partially offset by an increase in income taxes paid of $4,705 million and generated by existing operations.
The groups level of net debt, that is a higher net credit for impairment and gain loss on sale of businesses debt less cash and cash equivalents, was $27.5 billion at the end of and xed assets of $2,095 million.
2007, $21.4 billion at the end of 2006 and was $16.2 billion at the end of Net cash used in investing activities was $14,837 million in 2007, 2005.
The lower level of debt at the end of 2005 reects the receipt of compared with $9,518 million and $1,729 million in 2006 and 2005.
The the Innovene disposal proceeds in December 2005. increase in 2007 reected a reduction in disposal proceeds of During the period 2005 to 2007 our cash inows and outows were $1,987 million and an increase in capital expenditure of $2,713 million.
balanced, with sources and uses both totalling $107 billion.
During that The increase in 2006 compared with 2005 reected a reduction in period, the price of Brent has averaged $64.00 bbl.
The following table disposal proceeds of $4,946 million and an increase in capital expenditure summarizes the three-year sources and uses of cash.
The exact level will depend on Capital expenditure 47 a number of things including: the actual level of sector ination that we Acquisitions 2 will experience in the year: time-critical and material one-off investment Net repurchase of shares 34 opportunities that further our strategy: and any acquisition opportunities Dividends to BP shareholders 23 that may arise.
Dividends to minority interest 1 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ We expect to restore revenues by ramping up production following our 107 recent start-ups in the Gulf of Mexico, Angola and Trinidad and to bring renery production at the Texas City and Whiting reneries back online.
Acquisitions made for cash were more than offset by divestments.
Net investment during the same period has averaged $9.0 billion per year.
Dividends and other distributions to shareholders and gearing Dividends to BP shareholders, which grew on average by 15.4% per year The total dividend paid in 2007 was $8,106 million, compared with in dollar terms, used $23 billion.
Net repurchase of shares was $34 billion, $7,686 million for 2006.
The dividend paid per share was 42.30 cents, an which includes $35 billion in respect of our share buyback programme increase of 10% compared with 2006.
In sterling terms, the dividend less proceeds from share issues.
Finally, cash was used to strengthen remained at due to the weakness of the dollar.
We determine the the financial condition of certain of our pension funds.
In the past three dividend in US dollars, the economic currency of BP.
years, $2.3 billion has been contributed to funded pension plans.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:42 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -2109456254 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 55 During 2007, the company repurchased 663 million of its own shares Forward-looking statements on page 11 and Risk factors on pages 9-10, for cancellation at a cost of $7.5 billion.
The repurchased shares had a which describe the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results nominal value of $166 million and represented 3.4% of ordinary shares and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by in issue, net of treasury shares, at the end of 2006.
Since the inception these forward-looking statements.
The company provides no of the share repurchase programme in 2000, we have repurchased commitment to update the forward-looking statements or to publish 4,659 million shares at a cost of $48.2 billion.
financial projections for forward-looking statements in the future.
Our dividend policy has been to grow the dividend per share progressively, guided by several considerations including the prevailing Financing the groups activities circumstances of the group, the future investment patterns and The groups principal commodity, oil, is priced internationally in US sustainability of the group and the trading environment.
Group policy has been to minimize economic exposure to been committed to returning all free cash ows in excess of dividend currency movements by nancing operations with US dollar debt needs to our shareholders.
These broad principles remain, but changes in wherever possible, otherwise by using currency swaps when funds our business and the trading environment have given us greater have been raised in currencies other than US dollars.
confidence in our future cash ows and have led us to rebalance the The groups finance debt is almost entirely in US dollars and at uses of this cash.
31 December 2007 amounted to $31,045 million 2006 $24,010 million We now hold a more positive view of the pricing environment, of which $15,394 million 2006 $12,924 million was short term.
especially for oil, and we expect our financial performance will be Net debt was $27,483 million at the end of 2007, an increase of boosted by growing revenues, increased production and improved $6,063 million compared with 2006.
The ratio of net debt to net debt rening availability.
We also see significant potential for cost efficiencies plus equity was 23% at the end of 2007 and 20% at the end of 2006. and improved performance across all our businesses.
Our reduced equity The maturity prole and xed oating rate characteristics of the base, resulting from our share buyback programme, has made per-share groups debt are described in Financial statements Note 28 on page 136 dividend increases more affordable.
In light of these factors, we have andNote35onpage148.
decided to increase organic capital expenditure that is capital We have in place a European Debt Issuance Programme DIP under expenditure excluding acquisitions and assets exchanges to support which the group may raise $15 billion of debt for maturities of one month growth, and to rebalance our distributions between dividends and share or longer.
At 31 December 2007, the amount drawn down against the buybacks.
We continue to believe that a gearing band of 20-30% DIP was $10,438 million.
provides an efficient capital structure and the appropriate level of financial In addition, the group has in place a US Shelf Registration under which exibility.
Taken together, these factors led us to increase the dividend it may raise $10 billion of debt with maturities of one month or longer.
At by 25% for the fourth quarter, compared with the third quarter.
As a 31 December 2007 the amount raised under the US Shelf Registration result, the level of free cash ow allocated to share buybacks is likely to was $2,500 million.
We will, however, continue to use share buybacks as a Commercial paper markets in the US and Europe are a primary source mechanism to return excess cash to shareholders when appropriate and of liquidity for the group.
At 31 December 2007, the outstanding subject to renewed authority at the April 2008 annual general meeting.
commercial paper amounted to $5,881 million.
At 31 December 2007, gearing was 23%, towards the bottom of the The group also has access to significant sources of liquidity in the targeted band.
form of committed facilities and other funding through the capital BP intends to continue the operation of the Dividend Reinvestment markets.
At 31 December 2007, the group had available undrawn Plan DRIP for shareholders who wish to receive their dividend in the committed borrowing facilities of $4,950 million $4,700 million at form of shares rather than cash.
The BP Direct Access Plan for US and 31 December 2006.
Canadian shareholders also includes a dividend reinvestment feature.
BP believes that, taking into account the substantial amounts of The discussion above and following contains forward-looking undrawn borrowing facilities available, the group has sufficient working statements with regard to future production, future rening availability, capital for foreseeable requirements.
future capital expenditure, sources of funding, future revenues and financial performance, potential for cost efficiencies, level of free cash Off-balance sheet arrangements ow allocated to share buybacks, shareholder distributions and share In addition to reported debt, BP uses conventional off-balance sheet buybacks, gearing, working capital and expected payments under arrangements such as operating leases and borrowings in jointly contractual and commercial commitments.
These forward-looking controlled entities and associates.
At 31 December 2007, the groups statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be share of third-party finance debt of jointly controlled entities and reasonable in the light of the groups operational and financial experience.
associates was $5,894 million 2006 $4,942 million and $870 million However, no assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements 2006 $1,143 million respectively.
These amounts are not reected in will be realized.
You are urged to read the cautionary statement under the groups debt on the balance sheet.
The group has issued third-party guarantees under which amounts outstanding at 31 December 2007 are summarized below.
Some guarantees outstanding are in respect of borrowings of jointly controlled entities and associates noted above.
The analysis by time period indicates the ultimate expiry of the guarantees.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:43 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -358313800 56 Contractual commitments The following table summarizes the groups principal contractual obligations at 31 December 2007.
Further information on borrowings and finance leases is given in Financial statements Note 35 on page 148 and further information on operating leases is given in Financial statements Note 15 on page 126.
b The future minimum lease payments are before deducting related rental income from operating sub-leases.
Where an operating lease is entered into solely by the group as the operator of a jointly controlled asset, the total cost is included irrespective of any amounts that will be reimbursed by joint venture partners.
Where operating lease costs are incurred in relation to the hire of equipment used in connection with a capital project, some or all of the cost may be capitalized as part of the capital cost of the project.
c Represents the expected future contributions to funded pension plans and payments by the group for unfunded pension plans and the expected future payments for other post-retirement benefits.
d Represents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and that specifies all significant terms.
The amounts shown include arrangements to secure long-term access to supplies of crude oil, natural gas, feedstocks and pipeline systems.
In addition, the amounts shown for 2008 include purchase commitments existing at 31 December 2007 entered into principally to meet the groups short-term manufacturing and marketing requirements.
The price risk associated with these crude oil, natural gas and power contracts is discussed in Financial statements Note 28 on page 136.
The following table summarizes the nature of the groups unconditional purchase obligations.
This amount includes other investments in equity-accounted entities.
The following table summarizes the groups capital expenditure commitments for property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2007 and the proportion of that expenditure for which contracts have been placed.
Capital expenditure is considered to be committed when the project has received the appropriate level of internal management approval.
For jointly controlled assets, the net BP share is included in the amounts shown.
Where operating lease costs are incurred in connection with a capital project, some or all of the cost may be capitalized as part of the capital cost of the project.
Such costs are included in the amounts shown.
Contracts were in place for $1.1 billion of this total.
The transaction with Husky Energy Inc. whereby BP will contribute $2.5 billion in return for an interest in an equity-accounted joint venture, is included in the committed capital expenditure.
For further information, see Financial statements Note 3 on page 110.
Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:43 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -32275296 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 57 The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved oil and Critical accounting policies gas properties which include the costs of drilling unsuccessful wells are amortized on the basis of oil-equivalent barrels that are produced in a The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized in period as a percentage of the estimated proved reserves.
Financial statements Note 1 on page 100.
The estimated proved reserves used in these unit-of-production Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in calculations vary with the nature of the capitalized expenditure.
The preparing the financial statements is the need for BP management to reserves used in the calculation of the unit-of-production amortization are make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of as follows: assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the Producing wells proved developed reserves.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Licence and property acquisition, eld development and future Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
decommissioning costs total proved reserves.
The following summary provides further information about the critical The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with accounting policies that could have a significant impact on the results of prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset the group and should be read in conjunction with the Notes on financial over the expected future production.
If proved reserves estimates are statements.
revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation The accounting policies and areas that require the most significant expense or an immediate write-down of the propertys carrying value judgements and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated see discussion of recoverability of asset carrying values below.
financial statements are in relation to oil and natural gas accounting, Given the large number of producing elds in the groups portfolio, it is including the estimation of reserves, the recoverability of asset carrying unlikely that any changes in reserves estimates for individual elds, either values, deferred taxation, provisions and contingencies, and pensions and individually or in aggregate, year on year, will have a significant effect on other post-retirement benets.
the groups prospective charges for depreciation.
At the end of 2006, BP adopted the SEC rules for estimating reserves Oil and natural gas accounting instead of the UK accounting rules contained in the UK Statement of The group follows the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil Recommended Practice.
These changes are explained in Financial and natural gas exploration and production activities.
The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic information, prior The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process to to the discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred.
manage reserves bookings is described in Exploration and Production Licence and property acquisition costs are initially capitalized within Reserves and production on page 15.
As discussed below, oil and natural intangible assets.
These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis until gas reserves have a direct impact on the assessment of the such time that a determination is made on whether exploratory drilling recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the financial activity is successful.
Where a determination is made that the exploratory statements.
drilling is unsuccessful all costs are written off.
Each property is reviewed The 2007 movements in proved reserves are reected in the tables on an annual basis to confirm that drilling activity is planned and that it is showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial not impaired.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas on pages licence and property acquisition costs is written off.
For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, costs directly associated with the drilling of wells are temporarily Recoverability of asset carrying values capitalized within non-current intangible assets, pending determination of BP assesses its xed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment whether potentially economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying by the drilling effort.
These costs include employee remuneration, values of the assets may not be recoverable and, as a result, charges for impairment are recognized in the groups results from time to time.
Such materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
The determination is usually made within one year after well indicators include changes in the groups business plans, changes in completion, but can take longer, depending on the complexity of the commodity prices leading to unprofitable performance, low plant geological structure.
If the well did not encounter potentially economic oil utilization and, for oil and gas properties, significant downward revisions and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a dry hole and are of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development reported in exploration expense.
Exploration wells that discover expenditure.
If there are low oil prices, natural gas prices, rening potentially economic quantities of oil and gas and are in areas where margins or marketing margins during an extended period, the group may major capital expenditure e. g. offshore platform or a pipeline would be need to recognize significant impairment charges.
required before production could begin, and where the economic viability The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying value of that major capital expenditure depends on the successful completion of the cash-generating unit and associated goodwill with the recoverable of further exploration work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance amount of the asset, that is, the higher of fair value less costs to sell and sheet as long as additional exploration appraisal work is under way or value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of rmly planned.
discounted estimated future net cash ows.
It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired stratigraphic test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the future commodity prices, the effects of ination on operating expenses, potential oil and gas eld is performed or while the optimum discount rates, production proles and the outlook for global or regional development plans and timing are established.
market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and rened products.
management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash ows are intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
Where estimated based on the groups plans to continue to develop and this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
produce proved reserves and associated risk-adjusted probable and Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying values of possible volumes.
Expected future cash ows from the sale or licence and property acquisition costs and exploration and appraisal costs production of these volumes are calculated based on the groups best are transferred to production assets within property, plant and estimate of future oil and gas prices.
Prices for oil and natural gas used equipment.
Field development costs subject to depreciation are for future cash ow calculations are based on market prices for the first expenditures incurred to date, together with approved future five years and the groups long-term planning assumptions thereafter.
As development expenditure required to develop reserves.
at 31 December 2007, the groups long-term planning assumptions were $60 per barrel for Brent and $7.50 per mmBtu for Henry Hub 2006 $40 Filename: U54368 doc3.3d Time: 14:49:43 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1071625969 58 per barrel and $5.50 per mmBtu.
These long-term planning assumptions reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of are subject to periodic review and modication.
The estimated future judgement to existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject to level of production is based on assumptions about future commodity change.
Since the actual cash outows can take place many years in the prices, lifting and development costs, eld decline rates, market demand future, the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are reviewed and supply, economic regulatory climates and other factors.
regularly and adjusted to take account of changing facts and The future cash ows are adjusted for risks specic to the asset circumstances.
where appropriate and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would result 11% 2006 10%.
This discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take occurs with the exception of decommissioning costs as described into account country-specic risk.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is Provisions for environmental clean-up and remediation costs are based required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a on current legal and constructive requirements, technology, price levels business combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately and expected plans for remediation.
Actual costs and cash outows can $11.0 billion on its balance sheet, principally relating to the Atlantic differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public Richeld and Burmah Castrol acquisitions.
In testing goodwill for expectations, prices, discovery and analysis of site conditions and impairment, the group uses a similar approach to that described above.
The cash-generating units for impairment testing in this case are one The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least annually.
As noted above, if there are low oil The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at prices or natural gas prices or rening margins or marketing margins for 31 December 2007 was 2%, the same rate as at the previous balance an extended period, the group may need to recognize significant goodwill sheet date.
As further described in Financial statements Note 44 on page 165, the group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and circumstances Deferred taxation relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether The group has carry-forward tax losses in certain taxing jurisdictions that it is probable that there will be a future outow of funds and, once are available to offset against future taxable income.
However, deferred established, whether a provision relating to a specic litigation should be tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is considered more adjusted.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to likely than not that suitable taxable income will arise.
Management contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of litigation is difficult judgement is exercised in assessing whether this is the case.
information see Financial statements Note 20 on page 128 and Note 44 on page 165.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benets involves Provisions and contingencies judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates of return on plan assets, natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations, healthcare lives.
The largest asset removal obligations facing BP relate to the cost trend rates and rates of utilization of healthcare services by retirees.
removal and disposal of oil and natural gas platforms and pipelines These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
The estimated discounted costs of dismantling and Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the groups dened removing these facilities are accrued on the installation of those facilities, benefit pension and post-retirement plans is important to the recorded reecting our legal obligations at that time.
A corresponding asset of an amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of amount equivalent to the provision is also created within property, plant benefit expense in the income statement.
The assumptions used may and equipment.
This asset is depreciated over the expected life of the vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations.
Any production facility or pipeline.
Most of these removal events are many differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also years in the future and the precise requirements that will have to be met affect future results of operations.
when the removal event actually occurs are uncertain.
Asset removal Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are reviewed technologies and costs are constantly changing, as well as political, by management in December each year.
These assumptions are used to environmental, safety and public expectations.
Consequently, the timing determine the projected benefit obligation at the year end and hence the and amounts of future cash ows are subject to significant uncertainty.
surpluses and deficits recorded on the groups balance sheet, and Changes in the expected future costs are reected in both the provision pension and post-retirement benefit expense for the following year.
The pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions at Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and 31 December 2007, 2006 and 2005 are provided in Financial statements petrochemicals facilities are generally not provided for, as such potential Note38onpage152.
obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement The assumed rate of investment return, discount rate and the US dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream and healthcare cost trend rate have a significant effect on the amounts petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts and reported.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these circumstances that might require the recognition of a decommissioning assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation is provided in provision.
Financial statements Note 38 on page 152.
The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed annually, In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash ows.
The demographic and mortality assumptions.
Mortality assumptions reect interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the end of best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions and have 2007 was 2%, unchanged from the end of 2006.
The interest rate been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted represents the real rate i. e. adjusted for ination on long-dated where appropriate to reect the experience of the group and an government bonds.
extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
BPs most Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when it substantial pension liabilities are in the UK, US and Germany and the becomes probable that there will be a future outow of funds resulting mortality assumptions for these countries are detailed in Financial from past operations or events and the amount of cash outow can be statements Note38onpage152.
