Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:48 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1749443193 74 BP board performance report Letter from the chairman The boards engagement with shareholders Dear Shareholder The board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and During the past year, the board has carefully considered the role it plays activities of the BP group.
The board takes steps to engage with and its method of working.
Central to this is the boards review of its shareholders and to evaluate the relevant financial, social, environmental system of governance.
This has been timely BP adopted its prior and ethical matters that may inuence or affect the business.
The board governance framework for the board more than 10 years ago.
This recognizes that, in conducting its business, BP should be responsive to approach has stood the board in good stead and has been robust when other relevant constituencies.
judged against the standards of governance that have developed over During the year, the chairman met with institutional shareholders to time.
This framework will continue to underpin our approach.
discuss issues relating to the board, governance and high-level strategy It has, however, been important for the board to consider the position and the remuneration committee consulted with larger shareholders on of the company in the markets in which it operates and to ensure that elements of the executive remuneration plan.
the manner in which the board works will meet the challenges that BP The group chief executive, other executive directors and senior will face in the future.
As part of the review, each board member management, company secretarys ofce, investor relations and other discussed their evaluation of the existing policies and proposed their teams within BP also engage with a broad range of shareholders on views on the role and challenges for the BP board going forward.
The wider issues relating to the group, including in particular its safety, review process also involved benchmarking, identifying examples of operations and financial performance.
Presentations given by the governance best practice and a legal review of US and UK board policies.
company to the investment community are available to download from The board clearly needs to focus on its unique tasks and these are the investors section of www.
com, as are speeches on topics of described in the companys board governance principles, which were broad interest to shareholders made by the group chief executive and approved in November and can now be found on our website.
other senior members of the management team.
The board will keep its work and performance under regular review and will revisit the governance principles annually.
Set out below is a BPs AGM description of the board and its committees and an account of the work that they have done during the year.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and use the opportunity to ask questions and hear the resulting discussion about BPs performance.
However, given the size and geographical diversity of the companys shareholder base, attendance may not always be practical and shareholders are encouraged to use proxy voting on the Peter Sutherland resolutions put forward.
Every vote cast, whether in person or by proxy Chairman at shareholder meetings, is counted, because votes on all matters 22 February 2008 except procedural issues are taken by a poll.
Copies of speeches and presentations given at the AGM are available to download from the BP website after the event, together with the Board governance principles outcome of voting on the resolutions.
Both the chairman and board committee chairmen were present The board governance principles describe the boards relationship with during the 2007 AGM.
Board members met shareholders on an informal shareholders and executive management, the conduct of board affairs basis after the main business of the meeting.
In 2007, voting levels at and the tasks and requirements for board committees.
They outline the AGM showed a slight decrease to 61%, compared with 64% in the boards focus on activities that enable it to promote shareholders 2006.
It is proposed that the AGM in 2008 will also be webcast.
interests, specically the active consideration of strategy, the monitoring of executive action and ongoing board and executive Director elections management succession.
The board believes that the governance of BP is best achieved by the delegation of its authority for executive management to the group chief All directors stand for re-election by shareholders each year, with new executive, subject to monitoring by the board and the limitations dened directors being subject to election at the first opportunity following in the board governance principles.
These executive limitations require their appointment.
All the names submitted to shareholders for that any executive action taken in the course of business takes specic election are accompanied by a biography and a description of the issues into consideration, including health, safety and the environment, skills and experience that the company feels are relevant in risk and internal controls and nancing.
proposing each director for election.
BPs board governance principles can be viewed on the governance Voting levels at the 2007 AGM demonstrated continued support section of bp.
Operating the principles Board composition, skills and renewal The group chief executive describes to the board in the annual business plan how the strategy is to be delivered, together with an assessment of the groups risks.
During the year, the board monitors progress and The board governance principles require the majority of the board to be keeps the strategy under regular review.
composed of independent non-executive directors and the size of the The group chief executive is obliged to review and discuss with the board not normally to exceed 16 directors.
The board is composed of board all strategic projects or developments and all material matters the chairman, 10 non-executive and five executive directors: in total, currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance.
The board governance principles further set out how the group chief Lord Browne resigned as group chief executive on 1 May 2007 and executives performance will be monitored during the year.
was succeeded by Dr Anthony Hayward, who had been appointed group Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:48 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1317280750 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 75 chief executive designate on 1 February 2007.
Andy Inglis joined the BPs business have provided and continue to provide a valuable board on 1 February 2007 as chief executive of the exploration and contribution to the board and to the audit committee, which he chairs.
As production segment succeeding Dr Hayward.
John Manzoni resigned as deputy chairman and senior independent director, Sir Ian is leading the an executive director and chief executive of rening and marketing and boards search for the successor to the current chairman.
He has been left the company on 31 August 2007.
Dr David Allen will retire from the asked by the board to remain in post until April 2010 at the latest in order board and the company at the end of March 2008. that he may conclude both the chairmans succession process and the From the non-executive directors, Mr John Bryan retired in April 2007 identication and appointment by the new chairman of a senior and, at the 2008 AGM, Dr Walter Massey will retire from the board.
In June 2007, Mrs Cynthia Carroll and, in February 2008, Mr George BP completed the merger with Amoco in December 1998.
Dr Walter David were appointed as a non-executive directors.
External recruitment Massey and Erroll Davis, Jr are the two remaining former Amoco consultants were used to identify Mrs Carroll and Mr David as candidates directors.
Dr Massey will retire as a director at the 2008 AGM.
Both and the board believes that their skills and experience will complement directors have continued to be determined by the board to be those of existing board members and enhance the efficiency and independent during the past year, with Dr Massey chairing the safety, effectiveness of the board as a whole, particularly from the aspect of ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC.
Mr Davis will BPs US operations.
remain on the board until such time as he steps down as part of the The board remains actively engaged in orderly succession planning implementation of the boards succession policy.
The board believes for both executive and non-executive roles and manages this with the Mr Davis continues to demonstrate his independence as a director assistance of the nomination committee.
The committee assesses the through his ongoing contribution and challenge at board and balance of executive and non-executive directors and the composition of committee discussions.
the board in terms of the skills and diversity required to ensure it remains The board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the relevant and effective.
Following an assessment by the nomination independence of those directors who serve together as directors on the committee, the board will continue its policy of regularly refreshing boards of outside entities or who have other appointments in outside board membership.
Where necessary, the board ensures appropriate processes are The board has also begun the process for the identication and in place to manage any possible conict of interest.
selection of the boards chairman, as Peter Sutherland will step down at the 2009 AGM.
This is being led by Sir Ian Prosser, deputy chairman and The board: terms of appointment the boards senior independent director.
The board is using an external adviser to evaluate the boards mix of skills and experience and to assist in dening the criteria to be used in identifying potential candidates.
The chairman and non-executive directors of BP serve on the basis of The adviser has also been engaged to assist with the selection process.
Executive directors of BP have service contracts with the company.
Details of all payments to directors are described in the directors remuneration report.
Board independence The service contracts of executive directors are expressed to expire at a normal retirement age of 60 subject to age discrimination, while Part of the qualication for board membership of BP is the requirement non-executive directors ordinarily retire at the AGM following their that non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the 70th birthday.
companys executive management that could materially interfere In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, directors are with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred BPs non-executive directors full this requirement and the board has as a result of their ofce, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of determined that those who served during 2007 were independent.
BP is those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, the company involved in a long-term business of global scale and scope.
Membership maintained a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy throughout of the board needs to reect that not only in terms of skills but also in 2007.
During the year, a review of the terms and nature of the policy terms of tenure where articial restrictions on the duration of tenure may was undertaken and has been renewed for 2008.
Although their defence not be best for the company.
It is for this reason that all non-executive costs may be met, neither the companys indemnity nor insurance directors have been subject to annual re-election since 2004. provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted Sir Ian Prosser joined the board in 1997.
It is the view of the board that fraudulently or dishonestly.
His experience and long-term perspective on Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:48 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 372906196 76 In addition to the AGM which 17 directors attended, the board met Board and committees: meetings and attendance 12 times during 2007 for meetings of varying length: nine times in the UK, twice in the US and once in Brussels.
Two of these meetings The board requires all members to devote sufficient time to the work of focused solely on strategy, one of them of two-days duration.
A number the board to discharge the ofce of director and to use their best of board committee meetings were held during the year: for details of endeavours to attend meetings.
these and their attendance by board members please see the table below.
The board is Serving as a director satisfied that these appointments do not conict with their duties and commitments to BP.
Executive directors retain any fees received in Induction respect of such external appointments and this is reported in the Following their appointment to the board, new directors undertake an directors remuneration report.
induction programme, which includes matters such as the operation and activities of the group for example, key financial, business, social and Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards, environmental risks to the groups activities, the board governance provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to principles and the duties of directors.
The operational and business discharge their duties to BP effectively.
The nomination committee element of the induction programme is tailored to the requirements of keeps under review the nature of directors other interests to ensure the new director and is targeted for completion within the first six to nine that the efcacy of the board is not compromised and may make months of taking ofce.
recommendations to the board if it concludes that a directors other The chairman is accountable for the induction of new board members commitments are inconsistent with those required by BP.
and is assisted by the company secretarys ofce in this task.
Evaluation Training and site visits The board continued its ongoing evaluation processes to assess its Directors are kept briefed on BPs business, the environment in which performance and identify areas in which its effectiveness, policies and it operates and other matters throughout their period in ofce.
The board evaluated its performance executive directors also receive training specic to the tasks of the during the year through the use of a board skills evaluation completed by particular board committees on which they serve in order to complement an external facilitator and also individual director interviews held by the their skills and knowledge and enhance their effectiveness during their company secretary.
The process aimed at building on the outcome of the tenure.
On appointment, directors are advised of the legal and other previous years evaluation and assessing the way in which the board had duties and obligations they have as directors of a listed company.
The responded to issues that occurred during 2007.
A report from the board regularly considers the implications of these duties under the board external facilitator was considered by the board and recommendations governance principles.
The outcome from the evaluation has led the board to focus During 2007, board members undertook visits to Thunder Horse in the on certain areas for 2008, including a greater use of site visits and Gulf of Mexico, the reneries at Texas City and Gelsenkirchen, BPs UK restructuring of forward board agendas.
trading operations in Canary Wharf and BPs ofces in Houston.
All nonSeparate evaluations of the audit and remuneration committees and of executive directors are now required to participate in at least one site SEEAC took place during the year and are outlined in the reports for visit per year.
those committees below and in the directors remuneration report in the case of the remuneration committee.
Outside appointments As part of their ongoing development, executive directors are permitted to take up one external board appointment, subject to the agreement Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:48 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -481477419 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 77 Role and authority of the audit committee The chairman and senior independent director The audit committee monitors the observance of the executive limitations relating to financial matters and does this on behalf of BPs board governance principles require that neither the chairman nor the board.
the deputy chairman is employed as an executive of the group.
During BPs board governance principles set out the main tasks and 2007, the posts were held by Mr Sutherland and Sir Ian Prosser requirements for each of the board committees.
Key tasks for the audit respectively.
Sir Ian also acts as BPs senior independent director and is committee include gaining assurance on the integrity of the groups available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed reports, accounts and financial processes and reviewing the through normal channels.
management of financial risks and the internal controls designed to The chairman is responsible for leading the board and facilitating its address them.
The audit committee believes that the tasks outlined work.
He ensures that the governance principles and processes of the in the board governance principles meet each of the tasks and board are maintained and encourages debate and discussion.
The activities outlined by the Combined Code as falling within the remit chairman also leads board performance appraisals.
He represents the of an audit committee.
views of the board to shareholders on key issues, not least in succession planning for both executive and non-executive appointments.
Agendas Shareholders views are fed back to the board by the chairman.
The audit committee uses a forward agenda at the start of each The company secretary reports to the chairman and has no executive year to establish an initial work programme.
This is compiled using a functions.
His remuneration is determined by the remuneration combination of regular items including those required by regulation and committee.
items that reect a current review of the groups risks.
The forward Between board meetings, the chairman has responsibility for ensuring agenda also includes regular meetings during the year with both the the integrity and effectiveness of the relationship with executive external and internal auditors in private sessions where members of management.
This requires his interaction with the group chief executive executive management are not present.
between board meetings, as well as his contact with other board During the year, the committee chairman reviews any issues that members and shareholders.
may arise with the group chief financial officer, the external auditors and The chairman and all the non-executive directors meet periodically as the BP general auditor and will add items to the next meeting the chairmans committee.
The performance of the chairman is evaluated agenda where appropriate.
each year, with the evaluation discussion taking place when the chairman is not present.
The BP board governance principles require that the board Information develop and maintain a plan for the succession of both the chairman and Information on audit committee agenda items are received from both the deputy chairman.
internal and external sources, including Ernst & Young, the general auditor and the chief financial officer.
The committee receives presentations from a wide cross-section of BPs business and financial Board committees control management, with the attendance of additional Ernst & Young partners, if appropriate, to a particular business or functional review.
The board governance principles allocate the tasks of monitoring The audit committee is able to access independent advice and counsel executive actions and assessing performance to certain board when needed, on an unrestricted basis.
Further support is provided to committees.
These tasks prescribe the authority and role of the board the committee by the company secretarys ofce and during 2007 committees.
external specialist legal and regulatory advice was provided by Sullivan & Reports for each of the main board committees follow.
with the board, each committee has access to independent advice and The board is kept informed of the activities of the committee and any counsel as required and each is supported by the company secretarys issues that have arisen through the regular report given by the audit ofce, which is independent of the executive management of the group.
committee chairman after each meeting.
Minutes of the committee are circulated to all board members.
Audit committee report Membership Training The audit committee consists solely of independent non-executive A programme has been developed with the committee to enable directors who have been selected to provide a wide range of financial, committee members to update their skills and knowledge with regard to international and commercial expertise appropriate to full the the financial issues that may impact BP, for example on developments in committees duties.
financial reporting and changes to financial standards.
Members of the audit committee throughout the year were Sir Ian Prosser chairman, Douglas Flint, Erroll Davis, Jr and Sir William Castell.
Committee activities in 2007 John Bryan was a member until his retirement in April 2007.
Support is Financial reports provided by the committee secretary, David Pearl deputy company During the year, the committee reviewed all financial reports before secretary.
recommending their publication to the board.
The board has determined that Douglas Flint possesses the financial and audit committee experience, as dened by the Combined Code Internal controls and risk management guidance and the SEC, and has nominated him as the audit committees In 2007, the audit committee reviewed reports on risks, controls and financial expert.
assurance for the BP business segments Exploration and Production and Rening and Marketing, together with gas, shipping, BP Alternative Meetings and attendance Energy and BPs trading function.
A monitoring review was also carried The audit committee met 14 times during 2007. out on the performance of major BP projects against their original At the request of the audit committee chairman, each meeting is sanctioned investment.
attended by the lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young.
A joint meeting with SEEAC was held in early 2007 to review From BP, the group chief financial officer, the general auditor head of the general auditors report on internal controls and risk management: internal audit, the chief accounting officer and the deputy chief financial a further joint meeting took place in early 2008 on the same theme.
officer also attend each meeting by invitation.
Private sessions without The committee discussed key regulatory issues during the year as executive management present are held regularly.
part of its standing agenda items, including a quarterly review of the companys evaluation of its internal controls systems as part of the requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The effectiveness Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:49 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 2003033505 78 of BPs enterprise level controls was examined through the annual survey results were analysed by the company secretarys ofce and assessment undertaken by the internal audit function.
discussed at the November audit committee meeting.
Areas for future In addition to the standing items on the agenda, the committee focus were identied following the evaluation, including training considered a range of other topics including an update on TNK-BP, opportunities for committee members.
These have been incorporated a review of the groups decommissioning provisions and the legal into the committees agenda for 2008. settlements reached in the US.
The committee also received an The audit committee plans to meet 12 times during 2008. independent report on the groups US trading operations and visited the trading operations in the UK.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee report Membership External auditors The committees members consist solely of independent non-executive The lead audit partner from Ernst & Young attends all meetings of the directors who have been selected to provide a wide range of operational audit committee at the request of the committee chairman.
Other audit and international expertise appropriate to full the committees duties.
Members of SEEAC during 2007 were Dr Walter Massey chairman, partners are invited to attend meetings where they can utilize their areas of expertise, for example, during business segment or function reviews.
Antony Burgmans, Sir William Castell and Sir Tom McKillop.
Support The committee held two private meetings during the year with the was provided by the committee secretary, David Pearl deputy external auditors without the presence of BP management, in order company secretary.
to discuss any issues or concerns from either the committee or The committee chairman, Dr Massey, will retire as a director at the the auditors.
The appointment of his successor will be announced at Performance of the external auditors is evaluated by the audit the 2008 AGM.
Mrs Cynthia Carroll will be joining the committee in committee each year, with particular scrutiny of their independence, due course.
Independence is assisted through the limiting of non-audit services to tax and audit-related work that fall within dened Meetings and attendance categories.
This work is pre-approved by the audit committee and all SEEAC met eight times during 2007. non-audit services are monitored quarterly.
At the request of the committee chairman, each SEEAC meeting is Fees paid to the external auditors for the year see Financial attended by the lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young and statements Note 17 on page 126 were $75 million, of which 16% the BP general auditor head of internal audit.
Non-audit services provided by Ernst & Young Reports and presentations to SEEAC are led by a member of have remained constant from 2006, and audit fees $63 million in 2007 executive management.
Following a change in executive responsibilities compared with $61 million in 2006 are also little changed as the impact during the year, the executive liaison with SEEAC changed from of ination and exchange rate movements have been offset by Iain Conn to Dr Anthony Hayward, who attended three meetings efficiency gains.
of the committee in the second half of 2007.
Private sessions A new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and other senior without executive management in attendance are held at the end audit partners and staff are rotated every seven years.
No partners or of each meeting.
senior staff from Ernst & Young who are currently connected with the BP audit may transfer to the group.
During the year, the committee Role and authority of the committee approved the appointment of a new lead partner from Ernst & Young to On behalf of the board, SEEAC monitors observance of the executive replace the current partner who reaches five years service in early 2008. limitations policy relating to the environmental, health and safety, security The audit committee has considered both the proposed fee structure and ethical performance of the company and compliance to its code and the audit engagement terms for 2008 and has recommended to the of conduct.
board that the reappointment of the external auditors be proposed to In common with the other BP board committees, the board governance principles set out the main tasks and requirements for shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
These include monitoring and obtaining assurance that the Internal audit management or mitigation of material non-financial risks is appropriately BPs internal audit function advises the committee on the companys addressed by the group chief executive.
identication and control of risk.
The general auditor attends each committee meeting at the invitation of the committee chairman and Agendas presents a quarterly internal audit and controls report.
The committees tasks are broad as they cover all non-financial risk, and During the year, the audit committee evaluated the performance of the in constructing the forward agenda, the committee considers the risks internal audit function and agreed to the proposed forward programme of identied in BPs business and annual plans and also the review of risks work.
The committee was also involved with nding a successor to the conducted by the general auditor.
general auditor who is due to retire in 2008.
An external consultant was The forward agenda includes standing items that enable the engaged to undertake the search and the committee approved the committee to monitor and assess how the executive limitations policy appointment of an external candidate with deep audit experience.
is being observed for example, health, safety and environment reports In 2007, the committee met once with the general auditor in a private and to review the non-financial risks identied in the business plan for session without the presence of executive management.
The committee also holds a joint session with the audit committee to review the general auditors report on Fraud reporting and employee concerns on financial matters internal controls and risk management.
The audit committee received a quarterly report from internal audit During the year, the forward agenda is supplemented with any on instances of actual or potential fraud, and concerns relating to the emerging issues or developments that may arise.
financial accounting of the company.
The committee also received reports on a quarterly basis from the group compliance and ethics Information function, which captured issues relating to financial matters raised The committee receives information on agenda items from both internal through the employee concerns programme, OpenTalk, together and external sources, including internal audit, the safety and operations with topics highlighted by the companys annual certication process.
function, the group compliance and ethics function and Ernst & Young.
Like other board committees, SEEAC can access independent advice and Performance evaluation counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
The committee conducts a yearly evaluation of its performance.
For The activities of the committee and any issues that have arisen are 2007, the review methodology included a survey of committee members reported back to the main board by the committee chairman following and those individuals who regularly attend committee meetings.
Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:49 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1773894250 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 79 Committee activities in 2007 discussion at its November meeting.
The review concluded that overall Baker Panel Report and appointment of independent expert the committee was functioning as intended but that going forward more In January 2007, the Baker Panel published its report on BPs corporate emphasis would be given to operational risk.
In terms of committee safety culture and the oversight of safety management systems at processes, the review concluded that greater focus should be given to BPs five US reneries.
The company agreed to adopt all the panels the effective use of the committees time, as the committees workload recommendations, which were aimed at improving process safety had increased with the frequency and duration of meetings lengthening.
performance at the five US plants, including the appointment of an SEEAC plans to meet seven times during 2008. independent expert for a period of at least five years to monitor and report annually on the progress of such implementation to the BP board.
Remuneration committee report In May, the board announced that L Duane Wilson, a member of the Membership Baker Panel, was appointed as the independent expert to provide an The committees members consist solely of non-executive directors objective assessment to the board of the companys progress towards who are considered by the board to be independent.
Members of the remuneration committee during the year were implementation of the panels recommendations.
Mr Wilson reports to the chairman of SEEAC, has attended three of the committees meetings Dr DeAnne Julius chairman, Erroll Davis, Jr, Sir Tom McKillop and since his appointment and has also accompanied the committee to its Sir Ian Prosser.
John Bryan retired from the committee in April 2007. site visit of the Texas City renery.
The chairman of the board also attends meetings of the committee.
SEEAC received a presentation on Mr Wilsons detailed work plan in early 2008 and he will now periodically report to SEEAC on his progress.
Meetings and attendance On behalf of the board, SEEAC will receive an annual report by mid-2008 The remuneration committee met six times during 2007 and is in which Mr Wilson will address progress against the 10 Baker Panel independently advised.
Role and authority of the committee Group operations risk committee The committees main task is to determine on behalf of the board the The group operations risk committee GORC was formed at the end of terms of engagement and remuneration of the group chief executive and 2006 by executive management.
The GORC is chaired by the group chief the executive directors and to report on those to shareholders.
executive and reports regularly to SEEAC.
GORC reports presented to Further details on the committees role, authority and activities during SEEAC during the year included reviews of the progress of the six-point the year are set out in the directors remuneration report, which is the plan and the development of leading and lagging indicators of safety and subject of a vote by shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
Chairmans committee report Site visits The chairmans committee completed the task that it commenced The committee visited BPs Gelsenkirchen renery in Germany in March in 2006, formally concluding the process for the identication and 2007 and the Texas City renery in September.
The annual committee appointment of a group chief executive to replace Lord Browne.
This evaluation process concluded that such site visits were valuable to the process involved establishing a clear denition of the role description and committees work and, as a result, other site visits are planned for benchmarking internal candidates against an external population.
The inclusion on the forward agenda for 2008. committee held detailed interviews with each of the candidates and undertook an evaluation of the candidates strengths and weaknesses.
Compliance and ethics During the year, the committee reviewed with Dr Hayward the shortThe committee is tasked with reviewing reports on the groups and long-term challenges facing the group and, in particular, Dr Haywards compliance with its code of conduct and on the employee concerns proposals for the forward agenda.
programme OpenTalk as it relates to non-financial issues.
During the The committee also considered a number of management changes year, the committee received quarterly compliance and ethics reports, initiated by Dr Hayward and discussed his proposals for executive reviewed the 2006 certication process and the nature and resolution succession.
The committee reviewed Lord Brownes performance of cases raised through OpenTalk.
at the start of the year and that of Mr Sutherland at the end.
Other topics Nomination committee report Other topics reviewed during the year by SEEAC included a risk During the year, the nomination committee, through an external review of the Latin America and Caribbean region: health, safety facilitator, carried out a detailed review of the boards skills aimed at and environmental progress in TNK-BP: and the BTC pipeline.
identifying any perceived deficiencies such that a comprehensive succession plan could be prepared.
The committee, under the Performance evaluation chairmanship of Sir Ian Prosser, has acted as the working group for The committee conducts an annual review of its process and the identication of a successor to Mr Sutherland as chairman.
The 2007 committee review involved a facilitated Filename: U54368 doc5.3d Time: 14:49:49 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1172931014 80 As part of this process, the board and the audit and the safety, ethics Combined Code compliance and environment assurance committees requested, received and reviewed reports from executive management, including management BP complied throughout 2007 with the provisions of the Combined Code of the business segments, at their regular meetings.
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, except in the In considering the system, the board noted that such a system is following aspects: designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve A.
4.4 Letters of appointment do not set out xed time commitments business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors A joint meeting of the committees in January 2008 reviewed reports are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the from BPs general auditor to support the board in its annual assessment board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination of internal control.
The reports described the significant enduring and committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
inherent risks identied across the group, the effectiveness of executive B.
2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is xed by the board as a whole controls that respond to such risks and the continuing development of rather than the remuneration committee within the limits set by the systems in place to identify and manage risks.
The reports also shareholders, since the chairmans performance is a matter for the highlighted future risks of potential signicance.
These had been whole board.
reviewed by the board as part of the companys planning process.
The committees engage with executive management during the year on a regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
significant Internal control review incidents that occurred and managements response to them were considered by the committees during the year.
The board, through its governance principles, has established a process The board is satisfied that, where significant failings or weaknesses by which the effectiveness of the system of internal control can be in internal controls were identied during the year, appropriate remedial regularly reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
actions were taken or are being taken.
The process enables the board and its committees to assess the In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to system of internal controls being operated for managing significant risks, enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal including social, environmental, safety and ethical risks, throughout the control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for year.
The process did not extend to joint ventures or associates.
Directors in the Combined Code Turnbull.
b Includes 41,692 shares held as ADSs at 31 December 2007 and 40,155 shares held as ADSs at 1 January 2007. c Held as ADSs.
d Held as ADSs, except for 94 that are held as ordinary shares.
e Includes 34,962 shares held as ADSs.
f Interest as at 1 February 2007 on appointment as a director.
Includes 34,962 shares held as ADSs and 534,750 MTPPs granted prior to appointment as a director, 209,000 of which lapsed on 6 February 2008. g Includes 61,800 held as ADSs at resignation and 61,186 at 1 January 2007.
The above gures indicate and include all the beneficial and nonExecutive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such beneficial interests of each director of the company in shares of the shares of the company held from time to time by the BP Employee company or calculated equivalents that have been disclosed to the Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Companies companys option schemes.
Acts 1985 or 2006 as the case may be as at the applicable dates.
No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the company or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
