Financial review This is our second year of reporting full review of the portfolio.
All portfolio This is illustrated below.
under IFRS and to a March year-end.
investments are discussed and Leverage and deal size at funding We changed from a January to a rated for both risk and performance.
weighted by ICG amount March year-end in 2006.
Therefore Where a companys performance Total debt EBIT Deal size m 800 we have given annualised prior year gives cause for concern it is placed 11.5x comparisons rather than using the on a watch list and is the focus of 700 10.5x 14 month results for 2006, there additional monitoring.
Default 600 9.5x being no seasonal influences on our defined as non-payment or a 8.5x 500 businesses.
Similarly all percentage restructuring which is adverse 7.5x 400 changes are compared to 2006 to ICG statistics are also monitored 6.5x 300 results annualised taking twelveon a regular basis.
ICGs recent 5.5x 200 fourteenths of the prior period as 4.5x default history mirrors that of both 100 a base.
3.5x the European sub-investment grade 2.5x 0 and mezzanine markets.
The chart 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 below shows the progress of ICGs Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Balance sheet annual mezzanine default rate, Average deal size Total debt EBIT Existing portfolio which at the year-end was at its Source: ICG Data At the end of the year our portfolio lowest rate since 1993.
The chart was spread across 20 sectors and also shows the recovery rate on our New loans and investments 13 countries in Europe and 3 in the defaulted assets which, while The financial year was a record for Asia Pacific Region.
A full breakdown showing a small decline, remains new investments, both in terms of of both geographical and industry satisfactory at circa 60%.
number and value of deals.
Several sectors is shown on page 26. were re-investments with companies Our strongest market continues to Annualised default and recovery rates which were previously in our portfolio % be Europe, representing 97% of and therefore the business and Recovery Rates Default Rates the portfolio.
management are well known to us.
10.0 100.0 We invested steadily throughout the 9.0 90.0 ICGs 20 largest investments total 8.0 80.0 year: however we have increased the 839m which account for 48% of the 7.0 70.0 number of investments completed 6.0 60.0 portfolio.
Details of our portfolio, throughout Europe, primarily in 5.0 50.0 including all new loans, equity and medium sized deals, which is the 4.0 40.0 repayments, may be found on pages heart of our business.
In Asia Pacific, 3.0 30.0 22 to 28 of this report.
we completed our first transactions 2.0 20.0 in Australia and New Zealand and 1.0 10.0 Default and loss rate committed to an investment in Taiwan.
0.0 0.0 ICG actively monitors its mezzanine and equity investments.
An ICG Default rate Recovery rate The average size of new mezzanine Investment Executive sits as a loans held on ICGs balance sheet is member or observer on many of the Gearing level of portfolio 21m.
This is an increase over the Boards of our portfolio companies.
While we maintain an extremely previous period of 7m.
This enables the Investment strong credit discipline, the inherent risk to the portfolio is higher as a result Executive to monitor the company, During the year, we continued our of the increase in gearing experienced and to work closely with management practice of taking equity participations teams, private equity sponsors and in the last few years.
However in many where we believe that the returns will other lenders to build value in the cases this increased gearing is to be satisfactory.
Each quarter the companies and management teams invested 103m in such equity in Executive Committee undertakes a we know well.
At the end of the ICGs Annual Mezzanine Default Rate at the year-end was at its lowest rate since 1993 18 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Our UK team ICG provided us with a unique financing structure which worked perfectly for our business model.
It was an off-market product specifically structured to meet our ongoing financing requirements and to support the future growth of the business.
They have been a highly supportive partner and we enjoy our working relationship with them.
Najib Nathoo, Managing Director, 1st Credit Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 19 Financial review continued year, the total amount of equity and which it invests.
Where the value of provided by RBS while the securitisation warrants on our balance sheet these instruments can be reliably is being arranged.
We expect around amounted to 260m.
measured by reference to a substantial 480m of assets will be transferred to or forthcoming transaction in a similar the new vehicle in July 2007 which has Repayments instrument, the value is recognised in an initial capacity of 650m.
In Excluding the refinancing of existing the balance sheet, with any movement extending and rearranging our three deals, during the year 436m was in value being accounted for through major debt facilities, we are also taking repaid in respect of 35 companies.
Of either the income statement, in the advantage of lower interest spreads and these repayments, 18 were as a result case of warrants and quoted shares, have lifted some of the restrictions over of refinancing of the mezzanine loans or through reserves for the remaining the geographies in which we invest, as with cheaper debt.
At the end of March 2007, well as increasing our capacity to make current buoyant debt market enabled there was 16m of such unrealised more equity-like investments.
the repayment of a number of loans value included in the balance sheet, that, in previous years, may not have of which 9m had been taken through With unutilised capacity of 800m been repaid.
the profit and loss account.
Shares 2006 450m we are in a good and warrants whose value cannot be position to take advantage of Impairment reliably measured are estimated and investment opportunities in all of our ICG provides against any loan where, the value of such instruments over their chosen markets and all parts of the in the judgement of the Board, there cost for the financial year was within credit cycle.
is evidence of an event that has had the range of 55m 130m.
an impact on the estimated future Income statement cash flows.
This evidence depends Debt facilities Profit before tax increased by 37% to upon the specific investment, its During the year our debt increased 224m 163m in 2006.
Of the 61m country, its sector and other factors.
from 995m to 1,152m which increase, 21m was due to the strong funded the growth in the loans and growth in core income, 54m was a During the year, a small number of investments.
Our major debt facilities result of an exceptional year for gains companies in the portfolio suffered consist of a banking facility, a private on investments reduced by 14m from impairment events and, as a placement programme and an ondue to increased provisions and the result, we made provisions against 5 balance sheet securitisation.
effect of accounting for derivatives of them, totalling 35m.
In addition, for hedging purposes.
Gains on 3m incremental provisions were In December 2006 we extended the investment after MTIS of 155m made against the carrying value of a bank facility in size and term and 2006 101m reflected a very further 3 investments and we received negotiated a lower interest spread.
strong buyout exit market and the 3m in recoveries on previously The facility now has capacity of quality of the investment decisions impaired assets.
Gross provisions for 1.1bn and is provided by a made in 2003 and 2004. the year totalled 38m 2006 syndicate of 25 banks.
The net charge to the income The pre-tax return on average statement amounted to 35m Also during the year, we extended shareholders funds was 41% and compared to 23m last year.
our Private Placement programme earnings per share, on an undiluted adding some UK investors to the basis, were 204.6p compared to 153.7p None of our portfolio companies predominantly US participants.
We last year on an annualised basis.
defaulted on their loans during 2007. issued a further 179m of Private As outlined on page 10 the market as Placements with terms varying from Core income a whole is experiencing very low 5 to 10 years.
Core income is the underlying profit default rates due to faster repayments derived from our lending and Fund and looser covenant structures.
In January 2007 we redeemed our Management activities and therefore securitisation, Intermediate Finance does not include the impact of gains Shares and warrants PLC, in order to replace it with a on investment and provisions for ICG holds quoted shares, unquoted successor vehicle.
Core income is analysed shares and warrants in companies in assets were warehoused in a facility With Unutilised Debt Capacity of 800m we are in a good position to take advantage of investment opportunities 20 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts on page 59.
Core income consists This loss related to net euro assets increasingly competitive environment of net interest income and fund recognised at 31 March 2006 in for staff and, as a consequence, management fees, less related accordance with the accounting reward our people appropriately in expenses.
While gains on investments policies adopted in respect of IFRS.
order to preserve our outstanding may fluctuate depending on the During the year we have revised our staff retention record.
investment cycle, our core income treasury policy and updated our provides a stable return on the loan approach to hedging accrued but Included in the salaries and benefits is book and managed funds, and as unrealised income.
an 9m provision for the CDO shadow such it is a vital measure of profitability.
This scheme is During the year core income increased Fee income contractual, the expense being based by 23% to 112m driven by a 17% Fee income is generated from on the growth in the notional value of growth in the loan book and a 93% underwriting mezzanine investments the CDO and Institutional Mandate growth in funds under management.
and managing our Mezzanine, CDO Fund Management business.
We and Institutional Mandate funds.
The fee would expect this cost to continue into Net interest income income grew by 40% to 33m 2006 the new financial year as the size of Net interest income and expenses are 24m due to the increase in funds our CDO and Institutional Mandate measured using the effective interest under management.
We now receive Fund Management business grows rate EIR method which allocates fees on the equity committed to our and comparable businesses attract the interest income and interest new European Fund.
expense over the relevant period.
were offset by fundraising costs during The EIR is the rate that discounts the financial year 2007.
We continue to The cost of the Medium Term estimated future cash flows through receive fees on our earlier 2000 and Incentive Scheme included in core the expected future life of the loan or 2003 Mezzanine Funds, however income has increased by 13% as this debt and includes fees paid and these are reduced as each fund represents the incentive payments received on loans such as agency makes repayments.
resulting from exceeding the hurdle and underwriting fees.
interest rate on our loans.
CDO and Institutional Mandate funds Interest income includes rolled-up under management grew from Non-payroll costs increased by 27% interest where interest accrues on 2.5bn 1.7bn to 4.5bn 3.0bn from 11m to 14m due to new office loans, loan stock or preference shares, during the year, representing a rapidly openings in Tokyo and Sydney and on a compound basis, but is not paid growing base on which we are higher legal and professional until the loan is repaid to ICG.
income on both the mezzanine and Net interest income increased by the CDO activities represents a solid Gains on investments and 30% to 138m.
Interest income was income stream and is the result of provisions driven by the growth on the loan outstanding performance and our The gross level of gains on book of 17% and the increase in reputation as managers of subinvestment for the year increased underlying interest rates.
During the investment grade debt.
from 124m to a new record of period EURIBOR and LIBOR 197m.
188m of this was received increased by an average of 1%.
As Expenses in cash while the remainder most of our loans are at floating rates, Our expenses before the Medium represented the movement in fair we also draw down our debt at Term Incentive Scheme increased value of warrants taken to profit.
floating rates so that we are hedged from 28m to 47m.
Of this increase The cost of the performance related against changes in the underlying 16m is due to salaries and bonuses.
Medium Term Incentive Scheme rates.
In order to fund the increased We have accelerated our recruiting as generated by gains on investments investments, our interest expense we continue to invest in new offices, increased from 23m to 42m.
grew by 47% driven by the same more senior hires and improved factors and a one-off foreign infrastructure.
During 2007 our As detailed on page 20 our net exchange loss of 6m due to certain headcount increased from 80 to 102. provisions increased from 23m to unhedged positions at the half year.
Additionally we operate in an 35m during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 21
