Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review In the 52 weeks ended 30 September The soft drinks market 2007 Britvics brands have performed The soft drinks market volumes were well, actively growing market share down 2.6% over the period due in key categories, despite the poor entirely to the poor summer weather summer weather which presented and challenging second half 2006 extremely difficult trading conditions comparatives.
However, the fundamentals for the soft drinks market as a whole.
of the soft drinks market continue to The out-performance of the market show growth.
has delivered strong revenue growth During the first half of 2006 there was of 5.7% to 716.3m including a fivea general move by consumers towards Paul Moody week contribution of 13.8m from healthier and better-for-you food and Chief Executive Britvic Ireland.
beverage which was reected in a swing We have continued to deliver on our away from full-sugar carbonates to stills strategy of improving average realised and non-added-sugar carbonates.
In 2007, price ARP as we drive effective and as the year developed, there was some efficient promotional activity, improving reversal to a more balanced position operating margins, and proactively across both categories.
Inevitably, the managing the cost base.
As a result poor summer weather in the second half operating profit is up 8.5%, profit after of the year has illustrated the market tax PAT up 11.1% and earnings per susceptibility to extreme conditions.
share EPS up 10.9%, all before Importantly, the distribution of volume exceptional items, but including the over the full year reects the historical five-week contribution from Britvic trends with the exception of the summer Ireland.
This has been achieved against period.
Experience shows that market the backdrop of the poor summer growth tends to recover more slowly weather and challenging second half after a weak summer as consumption 2006 comparatives, which benefited trends remain lower.
The market from an above average summer and a experienced this during 2007, where the high level of promotional activity based weak market during the summer has around the football World Cup.
impacted the autumn market performance.
Free cash ow, before the acquisition of Against this general market background, Britvic Ireland, was 75.1m, 26.2m ahead Britvic has out-performed the market in of the prior year, driven by a continued focus all of its key categories during the period: 11.0p on working capital and capital expenditure The cola market was down 0.8%, management.
Return on Invested Capital while Pepsi outperformed this with Full year dividend ROIC has increased by 370 basis points a 6.7% volume increase, resulting to 20.7% reecting the continued focus in a 1.6 percentage point increase per share.
on costs, cash ow and the proactive in market share.
management of the Groups asset base.
The Board is proposing a final dividend per The squash market was down 2.5%, share of 7.7p bringing the full year dividend particularly impacted by the summer.
per share to 11.0p, an increase of 10% Robinsons squash outperformed 80.0m on the prior year.
This reects the Boards the market with 0.7% volume confidence in the future prospects of the growth, increasing market share business and the underlying cash generative by 1.3 percentage points, led by Operating profit.
our emphasis on our large pack promotional programme.
During the period stills market volumes were down 3.4%, against Britvic stills volumes up 3.8%, and carbonates market volumes were down 1.6%, against Britvic carbonates volumes up 2.0%.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 9 Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review Britvics strategy Robinsons squash has consolidated Management action has focused its number one position in its category Total GB Take-Home on three main areas: despite the challenging environment this year for squash.
This has been achieved Supporting and growing our partly as a consequence of the new core brands large-pack production facility, which has We continue to invest in our strong unlocked our ability to drive large-pack portfolio of brands through both performance through increased innovation and media, to ensure that promotional competitiveness, and has they are preferred by consumers.
allowed us to grow our two-litre volume The Pepsi brand has continued to gain share.
Also during the year we have share of the cola market, with an increase launched the re-designed no articial of 1.6 percentage points on last year.
colours and avours family squash range Total sales 6.0bn The success enjoyed by the brand in with the Raise them on Robinsons Britvic 11% the period reects strong promotional campaign, aimed at ensuring that the execution across all key customers and brand retains its authoritative category Coca-Cola Enterprises 26% a major brand Pepsi redesign that leading position.
This year the brand will GlaxoSmithKline 8% capitalised on the trend for personal sponsor the BBC Sports Personality of Danone 6% customisation, with multiple designs for the Year event.
This is the first headline Tropicana 5% each variant being available the designs sponsorship of the event and will include All other 44% change on a regular basis to ensure that the Robinsons Unsung Hero Award.
the most contemporary themes are The sponsorship will be supported by reected on the packs.
The growth in an on-pack promotion across everyday Total GB Licensed On-Trade market share was also achieved against a squash in the first quarter of the year.
background of continued heavy competitor Fruit Shoot, the number one kids juice activity and with no adverse impact on drink has once again grown its market ARP, despite our growing presence in the share and is now in more households than discounters sector.
Our close working any other kids juice drink.
The no articial relationship with the brand owner PepsiCo colours or avours radio campaign has has been instrumental in achieving this driven penetration to its highest levels performance.
During the year, Pepsi Max, since October 2005. has had considerable success from a taste campaign which has driven trial In the adult category, J2O continues to and frequency in all sales channels.
lead and drive the growth in its category, Supporting this has been the upgrade with 7% year on year growth helped Total sales 2.4bn and re-launch of the Pepsi Max website.
by its strongest ever Christmas.
This Britvic 44% success has been partly driven by avour Coca-Cola Enterprises 35% and format innovation initiatives, including Red Bull 4% the continued rollout of the PET pack: the successful re-launch of Orange & All other 17% Pomegranate as the sixth avour addition to the core range: and the introduction Source: AC Nielsen Scantrack data to of large packs for at home entertaining.
29 September 2007 and Licensed On-Trade Our brand communications including the data to September 2007 total coverage MAT.
If H2O were J2O campaign across TV, cinema and digital platforms have helped to reinforce the brands position with its core consumers.
Next year, we plan to continue to communicate with consumers in key periods such as the run up to Christmas: to expand the brand into more sociable occasions with new pack formats from early Summer 2008: and to introduce a new variant Apple and Blueberry in the Spring.
10 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 BR1-007 Front end 07 vAW5 13 12 07 17:20 Page 11 In water, Fruit Shoot H2O has Innovating developing new products consolidated its position as the number A number of new brands, brand one kids water brand, with an average extensions and new packaging concepts 12 weekly rate of sales some three times were launched in the year, with the higher than any other kids water brand.
aim of establishing Britvic in the growth It has very strong distribution at 77%, segments of the market.
All were excellent repeat rates at 41%, and its launched as planned and all are performing cannibalisation of other Fruit Shoot in line with our expectation.
The launches variants is low with half of the brands are focused around the four key themes consumers being new to the Fruit Shoot of naturalness, health and well-being, brand.
Drench has been re-focused on occasionality and indulgence.
the take-home market, with a successful The two major new innovation launches re-launch in a new packaging format in the this year were Robinsons Smooth Juice convenience and impulse channels in the and Fruit Shoot 100% Juice, both playing spring.
This was supported by the Your to the natural agenda with no articial brain is 75% water advertising campaign colours and avours or preservatives.
which successfully grew brand awareness.
There is no doubt that the weak summer 1.4bn Pennine Spring has been effectively had a detrimental effect on the scale and re-focused on the licensed and food speed of consumer pick-up on these two service sectors with volume growth of Litres total soft launches, but considering this impact, both 8.8% against last year and is now the have performed in line with expectations.
drinks sold during third largest and one of the fastest growing brands in managed licensed outlets.
Robinsons Smooth Juice has built the period.
its distribution rapidly through a 2.6m Our International business has achieved marketing investment in TV and in-store improved results, with further distribution execution, followed by a 2.5m gains for Robinsons squash in the recent investment in consumer sampling, radio launch markets of Sweden and Denmark and press in the first half of FY08.
Fruit and impressive growth from Fruit Shoot Shoot 100% Juice has achieved the in the Netherlands.
In the Netherlands highest value share for a branded kids we have developed a brand new TV juice after just 12 weeks in the market campaign which made Fruit Shoot the with a rapid distribution build, thanks second most recognised kids drink to a 1.5m marketing investment in TV advertised this summer.
The great early and outdoor media.
We remain confident success from Robinsons in Denmark in the future success of these brands as and Sweden has led to the launch of they are entirely relevant to the target Robinsons High Juice in Finland, designed consumer: they reect the increased to further build the scale of our business emphasis on natural foods and are in the Nordic region.
Distribution of 65% supported by the tenth largest grocery was achieved within the first eight weeks brand in the country, Robinsons.
of launch and with a full launch campaign, including TV advertising and in-store Britvic mixers and juices continue to sampling, the brand achieved a 4% strengthen their overall position, being market share after just 12 weeks.
the leaders in the juice category and level with our main competitor in the mixers category.
The key initiatives during this period have been the launch in non-returnable bottles: various range extensions including the launch of Cranberry and Pomegranate juices: and the re-launch of the not-from-concentrate 100% juice range in November 2007, which is now branded OJ and AJ with a more modern brand image.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 11 Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review Managing efficiency improving Expansion into Europe acquisition of integrated into the Britvic Ireland margins and free cash ow the soft drinks and related businesses infrastructure and we are on target Our Business Transformation Programme, of C&C Group plc Britvic Ireland for full integration by 31 January 2008. which we described at the time of During the period we acquired the soft Finally, the group function previously otation as being focused on driving drinks and distribution businesses of carried out by C&C Group has been improved efficiency and building C&C Group plc for 249.2m 169.5m successfully lled.
capability, is delivering against both in cash.
The acquisition of Britvic Ireland We remain confident in the previously objectives with 11m of annualised has provided us with the opportunity to announced annual pre-tax synergies savings having been made prior to the accelerate our growth as well as a leading of 14m and the following progress start of this year.
Such has been the position in both the Republic of Ireland has been made: success of the Business Transformation and Northern Ireland.
There is potential Programme that we have delivered an for annual pre-tax synergies of 14m: On procurement we have identied incremental 5m savings in FY07, being brand and product expansion and cost savings, and have started to align 1m ahead of the 4m originally planned innovation.
It has also provided us with certain contracts for example, our for FY07, and are on course to deliver an experienced senior management team PET and can procurement where Britvic a further 2m in FY08.
and opportunities to further develop the GB terms are superior: and sugar where owned brands and the Pepsi and 7UP Britvic Irelands terms are superior.
We continue to drive our Product Value brands in these markets.
It is only three Optimisation PVO programme and have Production harmonisation project months since the completion of the deal delivered 2m of savings in the year as is underway.
and we have found nothing to dampen a result of the introduction of in-house our enthusiasm.
Overhead and Logistics synergies have large pack PET squash bottles at our also been identied on the integration Norwich factory and other vertical The transaction included the following of Britvic International Ireland.
operational structure: two factories in Dublin and Cork: the Ballygowan water Summary In addition to this, as previously source in Limerick: the distribution and We have grown market share across announced, we expect to see incremental wholesale business which gives us the all of our key categories with a strong annualised savings of 56m by FY09 opportunity to a key route in a dynamically performance from our brands despite as a consequence of the outsourcing of different licensed market: the Logistics difficult trading conditions in the second the secondary distribution network and Centre in Dublin with additional half of the year.
The installation of our vending and chiller re-manufacturing warehouses in Belfast and Cork: and first aseptic line facilitated the major operations, at a one-off exceptional cost a number of small regional depots in innovation launches of the year, namely of circa 3m incurred during the period.
the north west and south east of Ireland.
Robinsons Smooth Juice and Fruit Shoot This will also reduce capital expenditure The business is a good t for Britvic 100% Juice, and all innovation was requirements by 23m from FY08.
As it is a brand-based business, and also has delivered on time and as planned.
a consequence of this transaction, we the Pepsi franchise in Ireland.
The brands have disposed of our depot in Tamworth, Our focus on managing costs and driving include the water brand Ballygowan the only remaining freehold site within efficiency has been relentless, and in the number one water brand in Ireland, the secondary retail distribution network, addition to the positive contributions 7UP, Club including Club Energise and at a net cash consideration of 9m.
from our Business Transformation and Club Mixers as well as the Britvic brand PVO programmes, the outsourcing of for mixers and juices in the Republic.
our secondary retail distribution network The transition process is progressing well.
has been implemented in line with our As we said when we announced the deal, plan and expectations.
Consequently, our plans for integration centred on the after adjusting for the five-week retention of the experienced senior contribution from Britvic Ireland, we management team in Ireland.
This has have delivered a 40 basis point increase been achieved with the business set up in operating profit margin, some way to run as a commercially autonomous unit ahead of our 1015 basis point ambition.
Transitional While it is only three months since the service agreements were put in place for completion of the Britvic Ireland IT, Finance and C&C in Northern Ireland.
acquisition we are most encouraged We have now completed separation of by the performance of the team and the Finance operation, with IT separation the business and energised by the on target to be completed in late opportunities that lie ahead.
The Irish business that has historically been included within Britvic International, predominantly Robinsons and Fruit Shoot, is in the process of being 12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 BR1-007 Front end 07 vAW5 13 12 07 17:20 Page 13 Introducing Britvic Ireland The acquisition of a soft drinks business in Ireland represented an important step in the strategic development of Britvic and has opened up opportunities for supply chain synergies, brand and product expansion, and innovation.
Market dynamics Business integration The deal is set to be earnings Acquisition completed 29 August 2007.
Total Ireland Take-Home enhancing in the first full year before Key senior management team retained integration costs with the cost of and business run largely autonomously capital covered in the second full year.
Britvic Ireland is an excellent t with Existing Britvic International operations Britvics existing business.
The brand in Ireland on course to be merged by proles of each are very similar with end of January 2008. a good spread of juices, water, squashes and carbonates, while both companies Integration key gures hold the franchises for Pepsi and 7UP in Anticipated annual pre-tax synergies their respective territories.
The acquisition of around 14m: also reunites the Britvic brand in GB and 3m through revenue efficiencies.
Britvic Ireland operates its own 11m through cost efficiencies.
Coca-Cola Bottlers 35% wholesale and distribution network, a vital One-off integration costs to achieve GlaxoSmithKline 14% route to market in a country with a largely these synergies in the region of Danone 7% independent pub sector.
2025m including 10m catch up All other 15% Company facts maintenance capital expenditure.
Second largest branded soft drinks Brand highlights 06 07 business in Ireland.
Total Ireland Licensed On-Trade Britvics successful J2O brand Turnover 269.9m for the year introduced in Ireland in October ended 27 February 2007.
2007 focused at first on licensed on-premise and food service with Number one brand in four soft planned media support.
Ballygowans award winning Operates its own wholesale and Bodies Never Lie TV campaign distribution network.
drove continued growth in the brand.
Based in Dublin with facilities H2OH!, a naturally avoured water from across Ireland.
7UP, was launched in April with good The on-premise channel is the early signs, capitalising on the success Britvic Licensed Wholesale 37% biggest profit driver.
Coca-Cola Bottlers 41% GDA labelling was rolled out in Red Bull 9% mid 2007 with completion planned GlaxoSmithKline 6% for mid-2008.
Gleesons 5% Stimulant drink Energise Edge launched All other 2% in September 2007 with encouraging early sales.
Source: AC Nielsen Scantrack data to November 2007 and Licensed On-Trade data to September 2007 total coverage MAT.
