Operating financial review 2007 Strong performance shows the strength and depth of our business In another strong year for global financial markets, we are pleased to report a solid performance that enabled us to deliver on all our stated financial objectives.
These results demonstrate the strength and depth of our business which, together with an improved range of products, has increased our ability to attract high quality talent.
Brand building continues to be a priority and, while we are an international group with our roots in South Africa, we are starting to gain increasing recognition on the international stage.
On balance, all our core geographies performed well in local currencies as we increased the scale of our activities and penetrated our key markets.
We continued to leverage off our platforms, with the UK and Australia performing particularly well following some of the initiatives implemented over the past four years.
The UK and Australian operations posted a significant increase in attributable post-tax earnings of 55.5% and 71.4% respectively, comprising a combined 43.8% of total attributable earnings.
South Africa produced a solid performance in Rands but increased marginally in Sterling because of the weak exchange rate.
As a consequence, adjusted earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items grew by 27.2% to 53.3 pence, from 41.9 pence, with the board recommending a final dividend of 13.0 pence per ordinary share.
This brings the total dividends per share for the year to 23.0 pence, up from 18.2 pence in 2006.
Balanced portfolio of businesses We continue to benefit from our balanced portfolio of business, with the majority of our businesses achieving good results.
Operating profit in the text below refers to profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
6 Private Client Activities Private Client Activities reported strong growth in operating profit of 49.3% to 176.5 million.
The performance of the Private Banking division was driven by strong growth in advances and non-interest income.
The division continued to penetrate its core markets, with all areas of specialisation performing well.
Momentum and an evolving brand supported performance, with the benefits of scale having a positive impact on bottom line.
The average private client lending book grew by 24.4% to 6.5 billion and the division increased its average retail deposit book by 28.6% to 5.2 billion.
Ongoing momentum supports the outlook of this business, with the focus on reinvestment and using existing strategies for scale and long-term growth.
Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking recorded solid growth, with the Private Client business in South Africa performing strongly and achieving an increase in average funds under management of 33.8%, to 7.6 billion.
The division benefited from increased volumes, higher asset levels, new product launches and a strong focus on efficiency.
Continued growth in this business will be supported by the launch of products appealing to sophisticated private clients, an aggressive approach to asset gathering through the reorganisation of client-facing teams and good market fundamentals.
The Rensburg Sheppards plc integration in the UK was successfully completed and our results include Investec's 47.1% share of the directors' estimate of the post-tax profit of Rensburg Sheppards plc.
Capital Markets Capital Markets formerly Treasury and Specialised Finance posted a significant increase in operating profit of 75.3%, to 117.3 million.
Growth was underpinned by a solid performance from the division's advisory, structuring, asset creation, trading and distribution activities, with average advances increasing by 22.2% to 3.0 billion.
A number of the businesses established over the past few years made meaningful contributions and increased the capability of the business in the UK.
In Australia, we benefited from higher activity levels and increased scale largely as a result of the acquisition of NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited in July 2006.
Looking forward, we will continue to pursue a strategy around specialist funds, with securitisation and capital markets a key focus.
Investment Banking Our Investment Banking division recorded a 9.6% decline in operating profit, to 91.2 million.
Corporate Finance benefited from a high level of activity from all underlying businesses across all geographies, with profits increasing by 36.9%.
The improved quality of employees, clients and investment portfolios enabled a strong integrated investment banking platform with a growing market presence.
The unlisted investments within the private equity and direct investments portfolios continued to perform well.
However, the entrepreneurial investment component of the Direct Investment division generated less revenue than in prior years.
The quality and strength of our deal pipeline and investment portfolios should continue to drive activity and sustain momentum.
We strive to build value in our direct investments and private equity portfolios independently of market realisations and market conditions.
Overview of the year Asset Management Asset Management achieved an increase in operating profit of 14.7%, to 68.1 million.
This was underpinned by the strong momentum of the UK and international business and ongoing sound performance in Southern Africa.
The value of average assets under management increased by 12.8%, to 30.8 billion.
Solid long-term investment performance continues to support the fundamentals of the business and we invested in strengthening our manufacturing and distribution capabilities.
Momentum across the business remains positive and we have a number of new initiatives in place to drive future growth.
Property Activities Our Property Activities generated an operating profit of 14.1 million, a decline of 23.9%.
The South African division continued to perform well, benefiting from strong equity and property fundamentals, higher average funds under management and realisations.
The results were negatively affected by a lower contribution from our investment property portfolio due to increased funding costs and rising interest rates.
We have a good stock of trading opportunities and have refocused our activities into trading, fund management and private equity style funds.
We are also developing a broader local and global property business, offering investors a spectrum of global products and capitalising on our skills across the group.
Group Services and Other Activities Group Services and Other Activities posted an operating loss of 0.7 million.
This was largely as a result of increased variable remuneration, given the growth in our profitability and a decline in the contribution from our assurance activities.
We remain well capitalised We have been able to sustain our growth through internal capital generation and have a solid capital position across the group.
We 7 also believe we are in a comfortable position for Basel II, which comes into effect in January 2008.
The capital adequacy ratio of Investec plc is 24.7%, largely as a result of the issue of 131.2 million of non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares and a 350 million Upper Tier II perpetual capital issue.
Investec Limited has a capital adequacy ratio of 14.7% which is well above minimum acceptable requirements and within our target range.
We have bolstered our capital base in Australia, in order to sustain the future growth anticipated in that region.
Investec Bank Australia Limited, is now well capitalised at 23.8%.
We remain committed to maintaining a level of capital that can be used efficiently in our daily activities, while ensuring that we have a sufficient capital buffer to support our strong growth aspirations.
Sustainability efforts enhanced During the past year, we strengthened our sustainability efforts, motivated by our desire to be an effective corporate citizen and we were included, for the first time, in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
We adopted a formal philosophy on our sustainability approach, known as Our Business Responsibility, for internal dialogue and reporting purposes, which was rolled out to raise awareness across the group.
Our sustainability efforts in South Africa have traditionally focused on the backlog of socio-economic needs in the country.
Our social investment activities have an entrepreneurial focus, including innovative efforts on CIDA City Campus and The Business Place, which has won us many accolades.
Our UK business also made progress in their sustainability drive winning the prestigious City of London prize for best of breed practices in the field of waste management.
In the year ahead, we will seek to perpetuate Our Business Responsibility effort, both internally and externally.
We will do this by attempting to empower communities through entrepreneurship and education, recognising the true value of diversity, and addressing the challenges posed by climate change and the use of natural resources.
In South Africa, we continue our transformation and empowerment efforts, striving for greater representivity within the organisation by supporting black entrepreneurs and creating empowerment platforms.
In April 2007, we submitted our second financial sector report to the Charter Council, which was reviewed and included a comprehensive analysis of our positioning in this regard.
We are pleased to have sustained an A rating.
Overview of the year Strong values support a solid culture of governance Our strong values of integrity, responsibility and risk consciousness underpin our solid culture of governance.
We believe that effective communication is fundamental in building stakeholder relationships and, as a board, we are committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to all our stakeholders.
A number of initiatives are in place to ensure the highest standard of corporate governance in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Credit goes to all our people Credit for our performance ultimately goes to over 5 000 dedicated employees in our offices around the world who drive our success and make us distinctive.
The growth path of the group is chartered by its leaders and we have many excellent people at the helm.
The overall performance of the group is aided by a strong board of directors.
We thank the board for its continued support and commitment which have enabled us to drive the group forward.
Even though our staff numbers have grown substantially in the past few years, we have a well-established culture which emphasises open and honest communication and support between management and staff.
Furthermore, we are always mindful that our financial performance is very much dependent on the continued support of our clients and shareholders, and we will continue to remain responsive to their evolving needs.
Our strategy is to be distinctive Our strategy is to be a distinctive specialist banking group driven by commitment to our values and philosophies.
To deliver on our strategy, we focus on maintaining a balanced portfolio of business, leveraging off our existing platforms and building our loan portfolios.
In line with this growth strategy, in July 2006 we acquired NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited, which bolstered our operations 8 in that region.
Going forward, we will continue to push organic growth in the UK and Europe and Australia, focusing on bringing in new clients and seeking revenue generation.
While this is an important driver of our growth, we also continue to look for bolt-on acquisitions, where we can build on and enhance our existing capabilities.
In South Africa, we will continue to grow organically and we expect to benefit from the strong local economy, which should assist in deepening our presence in this geography.
The outlook remains encouraging Good underlying momentum continues to drive organic growth across the businesses in all our geographies.
Although expenses have grown, we have a disciplined approach to cost control, while investing for growth.
Our experienced management team are experts in their fields and we believe that our brand is becoming well recognised.
We expect to benefit from recent recruitment of talented staff, which should support the increase in scale and market penetration that we have experienced across all our geographies.
Given our balanced portfolio of business activities, we believe that if current market conditions persist, we will continue to deliver on our stated growth and financial return objectives.
Hugh Herman Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chairman Chief Executive Officer Managing Director The operating financial review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 9 to 152, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
