Both Divisions showed good growth in Financial Review revenue: with Industrial sales increasing by 13.8% and Domestic by 18.7%.
On a like for like basis both Divisions continue to make progress with Industrial sales up 9.2% and Domestic sales up 6.1%.
New branches have performed ahead of expectations enhancing operating margin, profitability and return on capital.
Acquisitions made in 2006, A. Warren and Sons Limited and Price Tool Sales Limited, have achieved target return on capital in the first full year of Group ownership.
Gross margin of 227.5m was 31.1m 15.8% up on last year.
The acquisition of AHED Limited AHED diluted gross margin by 0.2%.
Year on year gross margin, excluding the impact of AHED, was at at 22.7% Roddy Murray of revenue.
Group Finance Director Costs of 176.2m were 21.3m 13.8% up on last year.
Excluding the impact of This is the second year the accounts, as presented acquisitions and new branches, like for like on pages 30 to 64, have been prepared under costs were 5.1% up on last year driven International Financial Reporting Standards primarily by a 2% increase in headcount, IFRS.
The accounting policies adopted are plus payroll and property cost ination.
in all material respects unchanged from the prior year and they have been consistently applied.
Operating profit increased by 23.6% to 51.3m 2006: 41.5m with both Divisions The financial review sets out how the Group delivering strong growth in profitability.
Further has performed historically during the year in improvements in operating efficiency have been terms of profit and cash ow, covers the achieved as the Group increases scale with nancing of the Group, returns achieved the costs to sales ratio reducing from and the management of risk.
Financial Objectives Group interest charges decreased from The creation of long term value for our 4.6m to 4.0m reecting the interest benefit shareholders is, we believe, driven by sales of a reduction in the pension deficit.
Average growth, profitability, cash generation and net debt throughout the year was 28.0% up return on capital.
The financial objectives on last year, interest cover remains healthy are aligned to this end and focus on four at 10.7 times and gearing has reduced from key areas: 63.9% to 47.5%.
Increasing revenues profit before tax increased by 28.2% to Improving operating margins 47.3m from 36.9m last year.
Maximising return on capital employed Maximising cash ow generation The tax charge was 14.5m 30.6% of profit before tax compared with an 11.8m charge Financial Results in 2006 32.0%.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, revenue increased by 17.2% to 1,012.1m 2006: Earnings per share on a statutory basis increased 863.6m.
Like for like sales, which exclude by 29.0% to 27.1p per share 2006: 21.0p.
the impact of acquisitions and new branches, There is no material difference between earnings increased by 7.1%, following 11.8% growth in per share and diluted earnings per share.
$75m Financial Review Total equity has increased in the year by of the notes are repayable in seven years and Continued 50.4m 41.3% to 172.4m 1.42 per $50m in ten years.
All principal and interest share at 31 March 2007.
The increase payments have been swapped into pounds principally reects retained earnings and the sterling.
The additional facility was used to net reduction in pension deficit of 19.6m.
partly repay the existing Revolving Credit The three closed dened benefit pension Facility.
Given the rise in base lending rates, schemes operated by the Group have securing a combination of xed rate and benefited from a relatively high weighting seven year terms via a private placement in equities and a significant reduction in has been beneficial to the Group.
the number of active members.
The Group had unutilised credit facilities in Based on operating profit generated in the excess of 100.0m as at 31 March 2007 of year, return on capital employed equity and which 27.0m was utilised on 10 April 2007 debt was 20.1% against 20.7% in 2006. to acquire the trade and assets of The decrease is due to the increase in capital BuckHickman InOne.
employed as a result of the impact of the pension deficit reduction.
Capital Expenditure During the year the Group spent 10.2m The continued improvement in earnings of on capital expenditure 2006: 6.6m, of the Group and our confidence in the future which 4.1m relates to opening new branches have allowed the Board to recommend an and 3.6m in upgrading IT systems and increase in the final dividend for the year of infrastructure.
Disposal of assets during 29.1%, making a total for the year of 6.190 the year raised 1.8m of proceeds.
expenditure and significant disposals are subject to stringent levels of authorisation Cash Flow and clearly dened authority levels are in Free cash ow increased in the year by place throughout the Group.
147.6% to 25.5m 2006: 10.3m reecting higher profits, better stock control, driving Pension Funds cash collection and improving commercial Total Group deficit calculated on an IAS 19 terms.
The working capital to sales ratio basis for the dened benefit schemes was decreased from 15.8% to 15.5% of sales 18.3m at 31 March 2007 2006: 46.3m.
The pension deficit reduction primarily reects the benets of asset appreciation, Of the cash generated, 24.8m was invested reduction in the number of active members in new acquisitions with Spendlove C. Jebb and an increase in the long bond yield.
acquired for 12.9m and AHED for 11.9m.
The net cost of the AHED acquisition was Financial Risk Management reduced to 5.9m with 6.0m of cash The Central Treasury function continues to generated between the date of acquisition co-ordinate the Groups banking and borrowing and the financial year end.
AHED has a requirements, and controls exposure to foreign freehold warehouse with market value exchange and interest movements.
The aim of of 5.5m and is trading profitably.
the function is to minimise the effect of changes in external and internal conditions on the Net debt in the year increased by 4.0m financial performance and net assets of the to 81.9m 2006: 77.9m.
The Group manages these risks using Board approved policies and procedures and Debt Facilities does not enter into speculative transactions.
On 11 May 2006 the Group raised $125m Derivative instruments are used but only for through a private placement of xed rate risk management purposes.
guaranteed unsecured notes with a number of US financial institutions.
The notes, which Interest Rate Risk are unsecured and in addition to the existing As at the year end, around 88% of the Groups Revolving Credit Facility, further enhance the net debt is subject to interest rate xing through The key measures set out in the table below are used to assess financial performance of the Group.
The Group The Groups trade purchases include 2% uses these interest rate swaps and caps to from overseas suppliers.
These are either manage its exposure to variable interest rates.
purchased in pounds sterling or in the relevant Further information is set out in note 16 of the foreign currency at spot exchange rates as at accounts.
Appropriate hedging arrangements the transaction date.
As the Group expands have been put in place on the new US dollar and the level of foreign currency required private placement, which have been described increases, the Group will review this policy and fully earlier in this report.
enter into forward contracts as necessary.
The Groups balance sheet transaction exposure Liquidity Risk relates primarily to foreign currency trade The Group nances its operations through a creditors and is not material to the Group.
mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
As previously mentioned, the Groups US The borrowings are denominated in pounds denominated borrowings have been sterling.
Financial assets are placed with banks converted to sterling using currency swaps.
at oating rates on periods ranging from overnight to variable terms depending on Credit Risk forecast cash ow requirements and earn The Group has no significant concentration interest at prevailing rates in the money of credit risk and limits the amount of credit market.
The maturity prole of borrowings is exposure to any particular customer across all set out in note 15 of the accounts.
The Group trading Divisions via credit insurance.
It has maintains the mixture of long term and short policies in place to ensure that sales of product term committed facilities as part of its liquidity are made to customers only with an appropriate risk management, which enables the Group credit standing and history.
Regular credit review to ensure that it is able to meet any planned meetings are held to manage key debtors funding requirement.
Due to this, management believe that no further credit risk provision is Currency Risk required in excess of normal provision for The Groups exposure to foreign currency doubtful debtors.
The Groups wholly owned Irish subsidiarys revenues and expenses are denominated in Euros.
The Group faces currency exposure on the translation of profits earned within the subsidiary, and is subject to currency Roddy Murray exposure on the translation of its net assets.
Group Finance Director The Group nances its investment in this 29 May 2007 subsidiary by means of borrowings in pounds sterling, together with a Euro overdraft facility.
Dividends are paid by the Irish subsidiary to the Group at spot exchange rates.
The Group does not consider it appropriate to hedge its net investment due to the relative insignicance of the Irish operation.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 13
