Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW 17 FINANCIAL REVIEW Profit before income tax and intangible Share buy back Cash generated from amortisation was 215.5 million 2006: 209.6 During the year 14.2 million shares were million, up 8% at constant exchange rates.
bought into treasury at a total cost of 100.0 operations was 258 million, million as part of an on market share buy back 44 million higher than Adverse currency movements, especially the programme.
These purchases were consistent US dollar, reduced Group growth rates by 5%.
with the Boards capital management strategy in 2006.
This translation effect is the major way that which is to maintain an appropriate balance currency impacts the Group results although sheet structure taking into account completed Group performance there is also a small transaction effect on certain and prospective acquisitions and disposals.
Revenue was 3,581.9 million 2006: 3,333.2 parts of the business.
million, up 12% at constant exchange rates Earnings and dividends and operating profit before intangible amortisation Tax The weighted average number of shares was 242.9 million 2006: 226.3 million, up A tax charge at a rate of 31.6% 2006: 32.0% decreased to 326.9 million from 342.1 million 12% at constant exchange rates.
This reflected has been provided on the profit before tax and due to the full year impact of the 2006 share good organic growth, acquisitions made in 2007 intangible amortisation.
Half of the reduction is buy back and further buy back activity in 2007 and the full year impact of acquisitions made in due to a decrease in deferred tax provisions as more than offsetting shares issued on option 2006.
Intangible amortisation of 24.4 million a result of the change in the UK corporation tax exercises.
Earnings per share were 39.8p was up 4.5 million reflecting the incremental rate to 28% which will take effect in April 2008.
2006: 37.8p, up 10% at constant exchange effect of a full years charge for the 2006 Including the impact of intangible amortisation rates.
After adjusting for intangible amortisation acquisitions and the amortisation relating to of 24.4 million 2006: 19.9 million and the and the related deferred tax, earnings per share acquisitions made in 2007. related deferred tax of 7.1 million 2006: 6.7 were 45.1p 2006: 41.7p, up 13% at constant million, the overall tax rate is 31.9% 2006: exchange rates.
This adjustment removes Operating profit margin excluding intangible 31.8%.
The tax rate of 31.6% is higher than a non-cash charge which is not taken into amortisation was maintained at 6.8% due to the nominal UK rate of 30% principally because account by management when assessing the a small improvement in the base business many of the Groups operations are in countries underlying performance of the businesses.
offset by the full year impact of lower margin with higher tax rates.
An interim 2007 dividend of 5.8p per share and Profit for the year a proposed final 2007 dividend of 12.9p per The net interest charge increased to 27.4 Profit after tax was 130.1 million 2006: share will deliver an increase of 10% for the million from 16.7 million in 2006 due to an 129.4 million, up 5% at constant year with dividend cover based on adjusted increased level of average net debt as a result exchange rates.
earnings per share at 2.4 times.
A final 2006 of acquisition activity in 2006 and 2007 and dividend of 11.7p per share and the interim the impact of the on market share buy back in 2007 dividend of 5.8p per share at a total cost the second half of 2006 and further buy back of 57.2 million have been charged to activity in 2007.
148 60.9 61.7 146 07 07 06 06 FREE CASH FLOW m RETURN ON AVERAGE Cash generated from operations less net capital OPERATING CAPITAL % expenditure, interest and tax.
Ratio of operating profit before intangible amortisation to the average of the month end operating capital employed, being tangible fixed assets, inventories and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables.
18 FINANCIAL REVIEW Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Balance sheet 16.6 million.
Net cash outflow before financing The Group funds its operations through a Return on average operating capital before was 10.1 million which, combined with a net mixture of shareholders equity and bank and intangible amortisation decreased slightly to cash inflow from employee shares of 1.0 capital market borrowings.
All of the borrowings 60.9% from 61.7% in 2006 due to the impact million and a cash outflow from the share buy are managed by a central treasury function and of acquisitions made in 2007.
Intangible assets back of 100.0 million together with interest funds raised are lent onward to operating increased by 213.6 million to 990.3 million and dividends paid of 33.6 million and 56.2 subsidiaries as required.
The overall objective reflecting goodwill and customer relationships million respectively, produced a net cash outflow is to manage the funding to ensure the Group arising on acquisitions in the year of 200.0 of 198.9 million.
has a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing million and a favourable exchange impact of facilities to meet the demands of the business 38.0 million, net of an amortisation charge of Pensions over time and, in order to do so, arranges a 24.4 million.
Shareholders equity decreased At 31 December 2007 the Groups net pension mixture of borrowings through different sources by 11.8 million to 476.2 million principally liabilities were 13.2 million.
This represents with a variety of maturity dates.
due to profit after tax of 130.1 million and an a 24.3 million decrease compared to 2006 actuarial gain on pensions, net of deferred tax, primarily due to an actuarial gain of 10.3 The Groups businesses provide a high and of 7.3 million, being more than offset by the million and 17.3 million of cash contributions consistent level of cash generation, which helps share buy back of 100.0 million and dividends offset by the current service cost of 5.0 million.
fund future development and growth, while charged to shareholders equity of 57.2 million.
The cash contributions include a 9.5 million the Group seeks to maintain a balance between Net debt increased by 236.9 million to 667.6 additional cash contribution paid into the UK the higher returns that might be possible with million due to a net cash outflow of 198.9 pension scheme in addition to 5.0 million paid higher levels of borrowings and the advantages million combined with an adverse exchange in 2006 following the triennial actuarial valuation.
and security afforded by a sound capital position.
Net debt to EBITDA was 2.5 times.
Capital management From time to time the Group purchases its own The Groups policy is to maintain a strong shares on the market.
The timing and amount Cash flow capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor of these purchases depends on the prevailing Cash generated from operations was 258.0 and market confidence and to sustain future market conditions, the price of the Companys million, a 43.8 million increase compared to development of the business.
The Group ordinary shares and the level of the Groups 2006, primarily due to an increase in operating monitors the return on capital as well as the net debt.
Any shares purchased are either profit before intangible amortisation and level of total shareholders equity and the amount cancelled or held as treasury shares.
This is favourable working capital movements offset of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders.
consistent with the Boards strategic priority by a 9.5 million special pension contribution.
of growing the Group both organically and by Spend on acquisitions was 191.7 million and acquisition and its objective of operating with capital expenditure net of sale proceeds was an appropriate balance sheet structure.
Average 2007 2006 US$ : 2.00 1.84 u : 1.46 1.47 A$ : 2.39 2.45 Year end US$ : 1.99 1.96 u : 1.36 1.48 A$ : 2.27 2.48 EXCHANGE RATES Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW 19 There were no changes to the Groups approach Interest rate risk The majority of the Groups transactions to capital management during the year and the The Groups strategy is to ensure with a are carried out in the respective functional Group is not subject to any externally imposed reasonable amount of certainty that the overall currencies of the Groups operations and so capital requirements.
Group interest charge is protected against transaction exposures are limited.
However material adverse movements in interest rates.
where they do occur the Groups policy is Treasury policies and controls The US dollar bonds have been swapped to to hedge significant exposures of firm The Group has a centralised treasury floating rates using interest rate swaps.
Bank commitments for a period of up to one year department to control external borrowings loans are drawn for various periods at interest as soon as they are committed using forward and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign rates linked to LIBOR.
Interest rate caps and foreign exchange contracts and these are currency risks.
Treasury policies are approved interest rate collars are in place to reduce the designated as a cash flow hedge.
by the Board and cover the nature of the Groups floating rate exposure to movements exposure to be hedged, the types of financial in LIBOR.
Credit risk instruments that may be employed and the Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a criteria for investing and borrowing cash.
There The interest rate swaps had a notional principal financial asset due to non-payment by the have been no changes to the treasury policies of 268.8 million outstanding at 31 December counterparty.
The Groups objective is to and controls during the year.
The floating interest rate is based on reduce its exposure to counterparty default derivatives to manage its foreign currency and US dollar LIBOR repricing every three months.
by restricting the type of counterparty it deals interest rate risks arising from underlying with and by employing an appropriate policy business activities.
No transactions of a Financial liabilities with a notional principal of in relation to the collection of financial assets.
The treasury 193.0 million were capped at 31 December department is subject to periodic independent 2007.
The interest rate is based on US dollar The Groups principal financial assets are cash, review by the internal audit department.
and euro LIBOR repricing every three months.
derivative financial instruments and receivables Underlying policy assumptions and activities are The interest rate collars have been entered into which represent the Groups maximum exposure reviewed by the executive directors.
Controls to manage the interest rate risk on US dollar to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
over exposure changes and transaction borrowings with a notional principal of 50.3 authenticity are in place and dealings are million in 2008 and 150.8 million in 2009 The credit risk in relation to cash and derivative restricted to those banks with the relevant and 2010. financial instruments is limited because the combination of geographic presence and Group restricts its dealings to counterparties suitable credit rating.
The Group continually Foreign currency risk with high credit ratings.
The credit risk policy monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties The majority of the Groups net assets are in specifies the maximum permitted exposure and the credit exposure to each counterparty.
The Groups to each counterparty.
policy is to limit the translation exposure and Liquidity risk resulting impact on equity by borrowing and or For receivables, the amounts presented The Groups objective is to maintain a balance using forward foreign exchange contracts to in the balance sheet are net of allowances between continuity of funding and flexibility.
hedge the translation exposure in those for doubtful receivables, estimated by The Group is funded by multi-currency credit currencies in which the Group has significant the Groups management based on prior facilities from the Groups bankers and US dollar net assets.
At 31 December 2007 there were experience and their assessment of the bonds.
The bank facilities have tenures ranging no material currency exposures after accounting current economic environment.
from one to seven years and mature between for the effect of the hedging transactions.
At 31 December 2007 the The maximum exposure to credit risk for available bank facilities totalled 655.0 million Throughout the year the Groups borrowings trade receivables and other financial assets of which 439.3 million was drawn down.
In were primarily held in sterling and US dollars.
is represented by their carrying amount.
addition the Group maintains overdraft and The Group does not hedge the impact of uncommitted facilities to provide short term exchange rate movements arising on At the balance sheet date there were no flexibility.
At 31 December 2007 the total US consolidation on the translation of the income significant concentrations of credit risk.
dollar bonds outstanding were $535 million statement from the respective functional with maturities ranging from 2008 to 2018. currencies into sterling.
Through a diverse range of initiatives DELIVERING from improving our paper and plastic recycling to fitting energy saving lights ON OUR in our warehouses and reducing our fuel consumption, we are committed to reducing RESPONSIBILITY the environmental impact of our operations.
We are also continually developing further TO REDUCE OUR ideas on green products as well as providing staff education and customer information.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Tonnes of waste Accident per month being severity rate recycled in UK & Ireland 24% -9% Computerised routing systems which assist in KEY HIGHLIGHTS the reduction of fuel consumption are in place Development of broader green product ranges in the US and have been introduced in the UK to provide greater choice for our customers.
Further fuel efficiencies have been The accident severity rate has improved achieved by driver training.
compared to 2006. Business area heads are responsible for some of the prior years measures have been implementation of the standards and compliance restated to align them with the bases used is monitored annually.
During 2007 no incidents for 2007. of non-compliance have been recorded.
The Company takes the area of social Group health and safety performance is assessed responsibility seriously and has for many Environment including climate change by two indices: incidence rate, reflecting the years had policies with respect to business and Health & Safety EHS total number of accidents incidents which standards, health, safety and the environment.
The Group has a long standing commitment involve lost time, and severity rate, reflecting the The Board believes that positive actions with to achieving continual improvement in number of days lost as the result of accidents or respect to social responsibility are not only environment, health and safety performance.
Trends against these two desirable in their own right but are also of The Group Environment, Health and Safety measures are tracked using monthly averages.
potential economic and commercial benefit Committee comprises representatives from each to the Company and considers environmental, business area and is responsible to the Board Data covering Denmark and France has been social and governance matters for identifying, for reviewing the Groups policy and agreeing included from 2005 onwards.
The central evaluating and managing risks to the Group.
standards and objectives for the Group European businesses have not yet been Bunzl is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
worldwide as well as auditing performance integrated into the Groups health and safety against those objectives.
Bunzls corporate social responsibility policy based tool, the Bunzl Group System BGS, provides a reference point to guide stakeholders, has been developed which is universally The accident severity rate has improved including all employees, on the elements that applicable and adds value to the environmental compared to 2006 due in the main to better drive the conduct of the business and and the health and safety management performance in the US and Continental Europe.
relationships with the world in which the programmes both at subsidiary and Group level.
Regretfully during the year there has been one Company operates.
The overall policy is made The following objectives were set for 2007 to fatality a member of the general public up of the following underlying elements: improve further the Groups performance: involved in a road accident in the US.
Standards of business conduct Code of ethics, A variety of actions have been taken to raise Environment including climate change Health achieve an overall reduction over 2006 in awareness of health and safety issues and and Safety, Employees, Customers, Suppliers accident incidence and severity rates and provide managers with information to enable and Community.
Further details are available waste to landfill and fuel usage and continue them to identify areas of poor performance and on the Companys website, www.
to increase the amount of waste for recycling: to improve accident rates including publication of business area statistics on a quarterly Standards of business conduct maintain and develop a continued awareness basis and, within some business areas, the Code of ethics of EHS across the Group with a particular publication of accident statistic league tables.
The Group has standards of business conduct focus in 2007 on Health in the workplace which were updated most recently in 2007. as well as continued vigilance on safety and Manual handling and slipping and tripping The standards set out the behaviour expected environment issues: remain the highest cause of incidents but of each Bunzl employee and cover the areas the level of severity is variable.
The Company of conflicts of interest, compliance with laws, analyse audit reports, understand common remains focused on reducing these risks as rules and regulations, dealing in Bunzl shares, themes and introduce measures across the far as reasonably practicable by ensuring good protection of confidential information and Group to address failings: and housekeeping, reviewing weights of products company assets and relationships with supplied, providing appropriate equipment stakeholders.
The Code sets out requirements investigate and analyse the possibility of moving and raising personal awareness of safe working for reporting unethical behaviour, including any the Groups environmental measures towards practices.
A variety of further initiatives were issues relating to accounting, internal controls assessing the Groups carbon footprint.
undertaken during the year to improve the and auditing matters.
To raise employee safety performance including extending existing awareness further, notices have been posted The Company continuously seeks to improve employee training programmes to include across the Company encouraging employees the quality and the reliability of data collection areas such as defensive driving and handling to Speak Out regarding any business related to support the key metrics used to measure the hazardous materials, implementing a series of concerns.
The notices include details of Groups EHS performance.
As a result of other visits by senior managers and insurers to review confidential contacts should they feel unable improvements in the source data collected, those sites with a high accident level and a to discuss such issues with their line managers.
