qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:39 Page 28 Directors Report Finance Directors Review Getting it right for our customers means getting it right for our shareholders.
Andrew Palmer Group Director Finance Group Capital together with 2007 values and target Introduction operating ranges.
As stated, one of our strategic We currently use four inter-related imperatives is Financial Strength.
The first two Achieving profitable growth for measures, the Insurance Groups shareholders and security for customers Directive IGD surplus capital and requires a robust, well-designed capital the regulatory surplus capital for structure.
We aim to have the right Legal & General Assurance Society amount of capital, of the right type, Limited Society, are key measures of deployed in the right places.
Our capital financial strength for our regulator, the strength is evidenced by our financial Financial Services Authority FSA.
The strength rating, which we regard as a Economic Capital measure reflects our strategic differentiator.
aim to run the business to a strong AA Capital management financial strength rating, and it is the Legal & General has developed a balanced capital requirement supporting this scorecard for capital management to help rating which is the primary constraint.
us demonstrate how we manage capital The fourth measure, Return on and to provide a transparent framework Embedded Value RoEV, ensures that for shareholders.
This can be seen in Fig 3, there is an appropriate tension between Fig 3.
Balanced scorecard for capital management Target operating 2007 range IGD surplus capital 4.1bn 3bn4bn Society surplus capital 4.4bn 2.5bn3.5bn Economic capital Very strong AA Strong AA Return on EV Increase over 8.0% medium term Figures extracted from the unaudited draft regulatory terms.
Regulatory surplus capital 1 1,2 IGD Society As at 31 December 2007 bn bn Available capital resources 8.3 8.4 Capital resources requirement 4.2 4.0 Surplus capital 4.1 4.4 1 Figures extracted from unaudited draft regulatory terms.
28 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Financial Strength 23148 p028-043.
Our credibility is tied up in the promise we make to customers.
And delivering on our promise presupposes that we have sufficient financial strength to do so.
Andrew Palmer, Group Director Finance View the webcast at: www.
com Insurance companies, as FSA regulated entities, have to carry a minimum level of regulatory capital.
We go beyond that, taking as our determinant of capital strength the AA financial strength rating from Standard & Poors.
We dont think anyone in Europe has a stronger life fund.
For us, this is a key strategic differentiator.
We think it can give confidence to consumers, business partners and financial intermediaries.
It is evidence that we have the necessary capital to be able to remain strong even through a downturn, and it means we have the capital to keep growing new business profitably.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:39 Page 30 Financial Strength Group Capital Actions 2006 2007 May December July November December Announced and Merged 1996 Sub-fund Established LGPL Issued 600m Innovative initiated 1bn Converted LGPL into ISPV and Shareholder as a reinsurer Tier 1 capital share buyback Retained Capital Ceded non-linked non Change to internal Change to internal Communicated Removed the long term profit pension and in inv five estment f stment fe ee e proposals to fund transfer formula annuity business to LGPL arr arrangements angements policyholders relating to restructuring of long term fund, and removal Introduced alternative Implemented PS 06 14 of formula restriction on capital support for the long term fund transfers With-profits business Reviewed annuity investment policy High Performing Approach to Financial Strength Since announcing its capital review in November 2006, Legal & General has substantially overhauled its capital structure.
This demanding, technical project places the Company at the forefront for balance sheet management and has enhanced embedded value by 0.5bn, while returning capital to shareholders and preserving Legal & Generals distinctive financial strength.
Along the way, the Company achieved a number of notable successes: the creation of the UKs first Insurance Special Purpose Vehicle ISPV and the issue of an award-winning Tier 1 Bond issue, to give just two examples.
All this has been achieved in less than two years.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 31 Capital resources From a regulatory perspective the Group Fig 5.
Group capital resources is required to measure and monitor its capital resources on an ongoing basis Legal & General Group and to comply with the minimum capital requirements of regulators in each territory in which we operate.
Legal & Generals total capital resources are in excess of the level of regulatory Society Other subsidiaries 2.8bn capital we are required to hold.
Fig 4 on page 28 compares available capital resources with the capital resources requirement for Group and Society.
Subordinated and Senior Society Shareholder Capital 4.8bn Borrowings 2.2bn Fig 5 shows the structure of the Groups resources on an IFRS basis.
The largest pool of shareholder capital is held within With-profits Society, reflecting the significance of Non profit Non profit business this operation and the importance of Pension & Protection Annuities & Savings ensuring its financial strength to support With-profits business business long term growth of our Risk and estate 1.0bn Savings businesses.
Investment Management, GeneraI Insurance, the Netherlands, France, USA and Group Plc.
Society continues to be one of the top two highest rated European life insurance quantum of capital and the return ISPV has, as planned, reversed the funds.
As at March 2008, our financial earned on that capital.
capital inefficiency reported in 2006. strength ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and A. M. Best were maintained We anticipate that the scorecard The 1996 Sub-fund has been merged at AA, Aa1 and A respectively.
All target ranges will continue to evolve with the Shareholder Retained Capital ratings have a stable outlook.
as industry performance and capital and new capital support for our measures develop.
with-profits policyholders has been Individual Capital Assessment ICA established.
An initial amount of 500m The FSA requires UK life insurance Capital review of shareholder assets is available for the companies to hold capital on the During 2007, we completed our review support of with-profits policies and this greater of two bases.
The first basis of the Groups capital structure, which amount will be amortised over a period Pillar 1 encompasses the rules-based we outlined in last years report.
regulatory capital requirements in have achieved our key priority of a the FSAs Prudential Source Book for The removal of the transfer formula, flexible and transparent capital structure, Insurers, including the with-profits whilst retaining a strong underpin to our which restricted transfers to shareholders realistic balance sheet.
The second basis dividend policy.
from the non profit part of the long term Pillar 2 is the insurers own internal fund, has created a single, more fungible A schedule of the key achievements of assessment of its capital requirements, pool of shareholder capital to support our the review is set out on page 30.
The together with any additional amount non profit Risk and Savings businesses.
600m issue of Innovative Tier 1 capital which may be required by the FSA.
An initial transfer of 1.7bn from the in May has subsequently received two long term fund has been agreed for the The Groups own economic capital Deal of the Year awards, from IFR and year ended 31 December 2007.
This is is calculated using an integrated Credit Magazine.
The 1bn capital higher than historic transfers and model which captures dependencies return programme initiated in July is includes the reserves released by the and diversification benefits between succeeding in returning significant value implementation of PS 06 14 in 2006. different risk categories.
The capital to shareholders, and had repurchased requirement is determined based on shares to a value of 320m at year end.
This transfer has increased IGD surplus The conversion of Legal & General a multi-year projection, thus taking capital and the target range reported in into account the long term nature Pensions Limited LGPL, into the UKs Fig 3 has been adjusted upwards to first Insurance Special Purpose Vehicle of the Groups liabilities.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 32 Directors Report Finance Directors Review continued These measures provide a consistent basis In addition, we have phased in the Directors after taking account of future for comparing the risk profiles and capital introduction of market-referenced fees capital requirements, our projections of requirements of different business areas.
for the investment management services future dividends from subsidiaries and which LGIM provides to our UK life current and projected investment market Solvency II and pensions businesses.
The final dividend per share During 2007, the European Commission dividend has increased by 21m in 2007 proposed for 2007 has been increased by and its advisers have continued work on to reflect this.
developing revised capital and solvency standards for EU insurers under the Following the removal of Societys Debt and Debt Facilities Solvency II project.
A new directive was transfer formula described in the Capital Access to the capital markets is issued in July 2007 which also integrates review section, we have redefined IFRS maintained through a 2bn Medium 13 earlier insurance and reinsurance operating profit for UK non profit Life Term Note programme, which allows directives.
The finalised directive will and Pensions business to be: debt capital to be raised in both senior be laid before the European Parliament and subordinated form.
The latter the net capital invested released from in 2008.
This is not expected to impact satisfies the FSAs criteria for Upper Tier the non profit business and: Legal & General.
II and Lower Tier II forms of capital for a smoothed investment return on all insurance companies.
The Group also Legal & General participates actively Society shareholder capital.
makes use of a US$2bn Commercial in the development of Solvency II Paper programme, which facilitates through working groups of the There has been no change to the access to both international and domestic Association of British Insurers ABI, definition of the other components.
Additionally, the Group FSA and Government and through We believe this new definition of has a 1bn five year committed credit European consultation processes.
The operating profit will increase facility which matures in 2012.
Together Group endorses the approach taken by transparency over the cash flows these facilities satisfy the Groups FSA to ensure that Solvency II benefits supporting Societys dividend to Group liquidity and working capital needs.
and builds on the experience of the FSAs Plc, although the reported result will implementation of ICA for UK insurers.
During 2007 we raised 600m of be more volatile.
For example, the Innovative Tier 1 capital as noted in Group Cash Flows restated 2006 operating profit includes the Capital review section above.
the release of reserves from adopting the Fig 6 shows that Society and LGIM continue to be the Groups main sources FSAs new more realistic rules for certain Total debt at the end of 2007 was 2.8bn non profit business and from changes we of subsidiary dividends.
2006: 2.4bn of which 0.6bn 2006: made to annuity investment policy.
During 2007, an interim dividend of 2.1bn 2006: 1.5bn carries a fixed 400m was paid by Society to support The Group dividend recommended rate of interest.
The weighted average the share buyback programme.
to shareholders is determined by the interest cost of the Groups core borrowings during 2007 was 6.0% annually 2006: 5.1%.
Group cash flows The Group has maintained its current 2007 2006 m m long term and short term debt ratings from Standard & Poors, at AAand Dividends received A1, and from Moodys, at Al and P1.
Society 728 380 LGIM 71 50 Financial Reporting Overview Other 1 3 Legal & General, in common with 800 433 other European listed life assurers, Dividend distributions to equity holders reports financial information to of the Company during the year 369 349 shareholders under two complementary Financing Cash flows 862 510 reporting bases.
Repurchase of shares under share The primary financial statements, which buyback programme 320 are found in the Financial Statements Working capital movements 84 52 section of this report, are prepared on Net cash inflow outflow 889 478 the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
This basis is the 32 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report 23148 p028-043.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 33 one which all EU listed companies are Operating profit reports the change in exposure draft expected to be issued required to follow.
We believe this gives embedded value in a financial year, but in 2009 and final standard.
an insight into the Companys ability to excludes fluctuations from assumed During 2007, the CFO Forum has made generate cash flows to support dividends.
considerable progress in developing the For companies which write long term The key differences between the EEV embedded value methodology.
We have insurance contracts, the emphasis of the and IFRS bases are set out in Fig 7. actively participated in this work and IFRS basis on movements in a single anticipate that the CFO Forum will issue Financial Reporting Developments year gives an incomplete assessment as principles for Market Consistent The IASB is continuing to develop an it does not provide information on the Embedded V alue MCEV reporting in accounting policy for valuing insurance value created over the life of the 2008.
The MCEV methodology builds contracts.
In May it issued a discussion contracts.
Legal & General therefore upon existing market-consistent paper Preliminary Views on Insurance provides supplementary financial valuation techniques and has been used Contracts.
This recommended a statements which are prepared on the by some European insurers in their valuation model which includes all the European Embedded Value EEV basis.
expected cash flows associated with a Those statements provide an assessment contract.
We believe that such a model Tax of the value which has been generated would reflect the underlying economics On the EEV basis, the reported by the business during a financial year.
In our Business Review we provide contributed to the responses to the IASB Movements in UK EEV were information on operating profit on the discussion paper from the European predominantly grossed up at 28% EEV basis, which we believe provides Chief Financial Officer CFO Forum 2006: 30%, the UK corporation tax shareholders with a good understanding and the ABI.
We will continue our rate expected to be in force for the of the value generated by the Group.
involvement as the IASB develops an majority of the projection period.
On the IFRS basis, the reported rate of tax attributable to equity holders was 19% 2006: 19%.
Key differences between the EEV and IFRS basis for the rate for 2007 being lower than the UK corporate tax rate of 30% was that no tax arose on the release of the EEV IFRS 1996 Sub-fund.
For 2006, the principal reason was the deferred tax credit in EEV seeks to recognise, at the point IFRS does not recognise, in the year respect of the initial loss in LGPL.
new business is written, the inherent of sale, profits expected to arise on value to shareholders of that business the contract in future years.
Instead it over its entire lifetime.
This is achieved recognises only the profit or loss by projecting future shareholder cash arising on new business in the year it is flows arising from new business using written.
Despite IFRS allowing some best estimate assumptions and then acquisition costs to be deferred, some discounting those cash flows using an product lines will incur a loss in the appropriate risk discount rate.
year business is first written, reflecting the initial cost and reserving strain of writing long term business.
EEV profit arising on in-force business Under IFRS, the loss recognised in represents the unwind of the risk the first year of writing new business discount rate, reflecting the fact that due to the typical expense strains in future cash flows projected are one acquiring it will be offset by the year nearer to realisation, together profits emerging in future years over with the impact of actual experience the lifetime of the business.
in the period varying from best estimate assumptions.
