Finance Directors review Our performance over the last 12 months has shown marked improvement.
However, there is more to do.
Our 20% improvement in EBITDA before exceptionals Over the last year we have completed the restructuring reflects ongoing progress.
This performance, of the Group into two self contained operational units marking the third key data point of our new structure, International and Europe, Asia & US.
Our Central functions is supported by a strong cash position which gives us have been aligned to this new structure, and importantly the flexibility we need to invest in our businesses.
we have halved our Central costs in the process.
At the same time, the Central team has made good progress Revenue has increased by 4% to 3,348 million driven by in resolving historical claims around the exit from our former the inclusion of Energis for a full year and strong mobile and US business and Pender, our former insurance operation.
broadband growth in the International business.
As a result This has resulted in the exceptional release of accruals and of this and ongoing cost control, EBITDA before exceptionals provisions during the year.
has increased by 20% to 492 million.
In addition, the team has worked with our International I am pleased to report a strong cash position at the year end colleagues to complete the disposal of our 20% shareholding with Group cash and cash equivalents of 1,048 million and in Batelco, the Bahraini telecoms company, for 256 million.
net cash of 332 million: strong cash generation from our This disposal is in line with our policy of divesting minority International business and the sale of Batelco has more than investments where we cannot see a path to control.
offset our continued investment in the turnaround in Europe, Asia & US and the repayment of our loan from the European Following the 98 million contribution in March 2006 to Investment Bank.
our UK defined benefit pension scheme, I can report that this scheme is fully funded on an actuarial basis, based on the 2005 funding valuation.
The scheme also has a surplus of 43 million under IAS 19.
The aggregate pension surplus of all of our schemes is 28 million under IAS 19.
We are proposing a final dividend of 4.15 pence per share, which together with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence per share represents a 30% increase on the prior years full year dividend.
This increase is in line with our progressive dividend policy and reflects the increased visibility and confidence we have in the future prospects of Cable & Wireless.
Tony Rice Finance Director and Joint Group Managing Director, Central 24
