NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL RESULTS New Stars operating earnings profit before taxation, interest, exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles were 98.1 million in 2007 compared to 72.0 million in 2006, an increase of 36%.
In last years operating and financial review, we said the full impact on our revenue of the significant growth in assets in the second half of 2006 would be seen in our 2007 results.
This proved to be the case.
Strong organic growth, mainly from sales in the first half of 2007, combined with the annualisation impact of the 2006 growth in assets, led to a 29% increase in revenue.
Investments were made in people, the product range and systems, resulting in a 21% increase in costs.
Revenue increased at a higher rate than costs.
As a result, operating earnings increased by 36% and the operating margin increased from 54% to 57%.
Assets under management rose 9% from 21.1 billion to 23.1 billion.
UK retail assets under management rose 9% from 9.7 billion to 10.6 billion, institutional assets rose by 8% to 8.7 billion, international retail assets fell by 8% to 1.0 billion while alternative assets and other assets increased by 33% and 12% respectively.
Net revenue increased in all major business areas, rising from 133.9 million to 173.3 million.
Net revenue from retail products increased by 31.6 million to 115.7 million, reflecting strong sales of UK and international funds mainly in the first half of the year.
Institutional net revenue increased by 2.9 million to 23.7 million.
Alternative investment revenue increased from 24.8 million to 26.9 million.
NET REVENUE 2006 NET REVENUE 2007 OTHER OTHER ALTERNATIVE ALTERNATIVE 3% 4% INVESTMENTS INVESTMENTS 16% 15% INSTITUTIONAL INSTITUTIONAL 18% 14% RETAIL MUTUAL FUNDS RETAIL MUTUAL FUNDS 63% 67% Net performance fees for the year remained constant at 12.4 million.
At the year end, New Star had 26 different funds or accounts with different strategies on which performance fees are capable of being earned.
The diversity of strategies on which performance fees are capable of being earned has demonstrated the increasing quality of the Groups performance fees.
Operating expenses before amortisation increased by 21% to 75.2 million.
The Groups largest costs remain employee-related costs, which represented 51% of total costs.
Direct employee costs increased by 26%, in line with the increase in average staff numbers.
We continued to invest in our people, both in new fund managers and support staff.
At the end of 2007, we decided to start paying some small bonuses to ensure that key staff were appropriately incentivised.
Non-staff costs increased by 5.1 million or 16%, reflecting the investment in our systems and infrastructure and the renting of additional space.
The 2.4 million exceptional item represents costs incurred in connection with the June capital reorganisation and the cost of obtaining a Full Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Following taking on 300 million of debt in the middle of June 2007, the Group had net interest payable of 9.6 million.
The Group generated operating cash of 97 million during the year.
This was used to fund the 9 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued capital repayment to shareholders, to repay some of the debt taken out in June and to make two dividend payments totalling 23.1 million.
The tax charge at 17% of operating earnings reflects the allowability of interest payable and the amortisation of intangible assets together with increased overseas earnings.
At the end of the year, the Group had approximately 30 million of intangible assets to be utilised against future operating earnings.
As a result of this and overseas earnings, the Group will continue in 2008 to have a tax charge below the UK corporate rate of 28%.
Operating earnings per ordinary share increased by 60% from 24.71p per share to 39.51p per share.
The operating earnings per share calculation has been arrived at before taxation, interest, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets.
We have adopted this measure because we believe it reflects our underlying profitability.
After taxation, interest, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, the earnings per share were 18.72p compared with 13.54p in 2006.
The capital repayment and four-for-five share reorganisation has been treated as part of a business combination using the weighted average number of shares in issue for the year.
The Groups balance sheet shows negative net assets of 211 million.
This negative position arose as a result of the capital repayment to shareholders in June and the decision to use reverse acquisition accounting principles.
Under this method of accounting, goodwill and intangible assets are not recognised on the balance sheet.
If they had been, at the end of December the Group would have had significant net assets.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Groups key performance indicators are the growth in operating earnings and operating earnings per share.
These can be summarised as follows: 2005 2006 2007 Operating earnings million 43.6 72.0 98.1 Operating earnings per share pence 14.48 24.71 39.51 The key financial indicators that are important in achieving the operating earnings are the level and mix of assets under management, net sales of investment products, the retained management fee margin by product area, including performance fees, and the overall operating profit margin.
These are covered in more detail in the rest of the operating and financial review.
Over the medium and longer term, investment performance is the most important factor in keeping existing business and delivering new business.
Key information on performance is provided in each business unit sector review.
INVESTMENT REPORT Global economic growth slowed during 2007, with the slowdown intensifying as the year progressed.
Consensus Economics estimates world economic growth during 2007 at 3.7%, down from 4.0% in 2006, while United Nations figures calculated on a purchasing power parity basis show growth at 5.3%, down from 5.4% the previous year.
China, once again, generated the fastest economic growth among the major economies at 11.4% according to International Monetary Fund IMF estimates.
This was the countrys fifth successive year of double-digit expansion.
Emerging Asia as a whole grew at 9.6%, according to the IMF, surpassing growth in other emerging market areas.
Russia generated 8.2% economic growth, the Middle East and Africa grew at 6%, Eastern Europe grew at 5.5% while Latin America grew at 5.4%.
Within the Group of Seven G7 developed economies, the momentum of growth declined significantly in 2007 from the buoyant conditions of 2006.
10 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued The most serious slowdown was in the US, where growth fell from 2.9% to 2.2%, and in Japan, where there was a decline from 2.4% to 1.9%.
Within Europe, the pace of growth in the eurozone declined from 2.8% to 2.6%.
By contrast, UK growth increased from 2.8% to 3.1%.
Equity markets generated modest positive returns over the year for UK-based investors, with the MSCI World Total Return Index rising 7.7% in sterling terms.
Higher equity values were partly the result of healthy corporate profits growth and an active takeover market.
In addition, share prices were bolstered by abundant liquidity, with the inflation-adjusted money supply growth in the G7 remaining above the level of industrial output growth, freeing cash for financial investment.
The positive returns from equities did, however, mask increased volatility and there were periods when increased risk aversion resulted in cash being switched from riskier securities into safe haven assets such as government bonds.
The first correction began in February, when US sub-prime mortgage defaults heightened concerns that the US would experience a significant economic growth slowdown or recession.
The second period of nervousness occurred over the summer amid growing evidence that contagion was spreading out from the US sub-prime mortgage sector, affecting leveraged investors in riskier fixed interest securities such as hedge funds and banks and resulting in a significant deterioration in the previously benign conditions in global credit markets.
There was a recovery in the autumn as central banks pumped liquidity into the system and the US Federal Reserve eased its monetary policy but there was further weakness towards the end of 2007 amid fears that the financial market problems would hinder economic growth in the US and other interest rate sensitive economies such as the UK, Spain and Ireland.
In the fixed income markets, government bond returns were weak initially, with investors concerned about inflationary pressures.
The flight to quality in response to the credit crunch, however, generated a recovery, with G7 government bonds returning 8.7% in sterling terms over 2007 as a whole.
Such trends were reversed for more risky fixed income securities.
Emerging market sovereign debt returns were weaker than G7 returns at 4.7% while high-yield corporate bonds initially outperformed but then retreated in response to credit market turmoil, declining 0.1% over the year.
In sterling terms, the best-performing large stockmarkets were India, up 92.1%, Brazil, up 86.9%, Turkey, up 67.1%, and China, up 43.3%.
Within the G7, Germany returned 27.5%, followed by the resource-heavy Canadian market, up 27.4%.
France gained 13.7%, the UK gained 5.6% and the US gained 5.3%.
The weakest markets were Italy, up 4.2%, and Japan, down 6.3%.
Among the broad global sectors, energy made the biggest contribution to overall returns, rising 28.2% in response to the 56.1% rise in the oil price to $94.92 per barrel.
Other outperformers included materials, up 31.5%, aided by the 31.8% rise in the gold price to $836.15 per ounce, while telecommunications and utilities both gained 20.2%.
The biggest drag on performance was the financial sector, which fell 9.2%, while consumer discretionary stocks fell 4.5%.
At the turn of the year, there was increasing evidence that economic conditions were deteriorating in the US and the more interest rate sensitive economies of Europe.
This was reflected in a fide-rating of equities, which were trading at the end of 2007 on a trailing earnings multiple of 15.67 as measured by the MSCI World Index against more than 30 in 2002.
The dividend yield on the MSCI World Index, meanwhile, had risen to a four-year high of 2.30%.
Momentum in the emerging markets and positive money supply trends may result in a soft landing but the credit crunch has increased the risks of more serious dislocation.
Central banks have responded with looser monetary policies, with the US Federal Reserve being the most aggressive in its interest rate cuts, but the room for further interest rate cuts may be constrained by increased inflationary pressures.
This is particularly the case in Europe, where the Bank of England moved only modestly to ease monetary policy in late 2007 and the European Central Bank was on hold.
11 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Such conditions may affect the government bond markets negatively.
The central bankers shifting focus from bearing down on prices towards addressing financial market dislocation could, however, result in rotation back into equities and corporate bonds.
Both asset classes look modestly valued, assuming the world economy avoids a full-scale recession.
The high dispersion of returns between sectors and individual stocks is likely to continue over the coming months in response to the challenging economic circumstances.
In such an environment, careful stock selection will remain vital.
UK RETAIL FUNDS Assets under management within New Stars UK unit trusts and open-ended investment companies increased by 9% from 9.7 billion to 10.6 billion during 2007.
Some of the best relative returns were generated by the portfolios run by New Stars fund of funds team.
Funds in specialist areas such as mid-cap UK equities, financial stocks and technology also generated benchmarkbeating returns.
In other areas, the investment styles of some of our larger equity funds and fixed income funds were ill-suited for the market conditions prevailing during the second half of 2007, in particular the credit squeeze and the rise in commodity prices.
Notwithstanding the performance issues within some of our funds, the strong relative returns within our funds of funds and our specialist funds and the longer-term track records of our fund managers gained recognition in a series of investment awards during 2007.
In addition to enabling us to win the award for Best Multi-Manager Group of Professional Advisers MultiManager Awards for 2007, the New Star fund of funds team picked up a series of individual awards.
The New Star Tactical Portfolio won the Best International Multi-Manager Fund award while the New Star American Portfolio won the Best Specialist Multi-Manager Fund award.
In the Standard & Poors 2007 UK fund awards, the New Star Active Portfolio came top in the asset allocation global flexible sector over 10 years.
A number of other funds within our retail range also received investment awards.
In the S&P 2007 UK fund awards, the New Star Extra High Yield Bond Unit Trust came top in the fixed income high yield sector over one year while the New Star Sterling Bond Unit Trust came top in the fixed income corporate sector over 10 years.
In Lippers 2007 UK fund awards, the Extra High Yield Bond Unit Trust was named the best global bond high yield fund over three years, the New Star Fixed Interest Unit Trust was named the best sterling corporate bond fund over three years and the New Star Sterling Bond Unit Trust was named the best sterling corporate bond fund over 10 years.
The New Star Pacific Growth Unit Trust was named the best Asia Pacific excluding Japan equity fund over 10 years.
The New Star Global Financials Fund was named the best banks and other financials equity fund over three and five years while the New Star UK Strategic Income Unit Trust was named the best UK equity income fund over three years.
In the Portfolio Adviser 2007 fund awards, the New Star Global Financials Fund won the specialist equities category while the New Star European Growth Fund won the European category in Investment Weeks Fund Manager of the Year Award.
The longer-term records of our fund managers, our committed sales and marketing efforts and effective client service resulted in a 32% rise in gross retail sales from 2.9 billion to 3.8 billion.
Mixed performance and market turbulence over the second half of the year led to increased redemptions, however, with the result that net retail sales fell 21% from 1.8 billion to 1.4 billion.
Of our equity and bond funds, the New Star Sterling Bond Unit Trust raised a net 181 million during the year, the New Star European Growth Fund raised 181 million and the New Star Managed Distribution Fund raised 123 million.
Among our more specialist funds, the New Star Global Financials Fund raised 83 million.
We strengthened our European management team and, as a result, we added to our funds through a 172 million transfer of assets from Tilney.
12 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Within our fund of funds business, the strongest-selling portfolio was the New Star Active Portfolio, which raised a net 61 million.
The range as a whole benefited from net inflows of 105 million, taking the total assets of the eight portfolios within the range to 1.2 billion at the year end.
Since we moved into the multimanager sector in 2003, we have grown to be the second largest non-life company provider in the UK market.
The multi-manager sector is an area of strong growth potential over the coming years as financial advisers seek to invest in multi-asset class best-of-breed portfolios on behalf of their clients and we are committing significant sales and marketing resources to the further expansion of our fund of funds operation.
Within the specialist funds area, the launch of the New Star Heart of Africa Fund was one of the most interesting marketing initiatives for New Star during the second half of 2007.
In response to strong economic growth trends and reduced political risks, UK investors are likely to invest increasing sums in emerging markets, including areas that had previously been perceived as particularly risky and to be avoided.
To satisfy this increasing appetite, New Star is committed to building a significant emerging markets investment presence in the UK funds marketplace.
The Heart of Africa Fund is intended to be the first of a series of initiatives.
Launched in October, it is one of the first UK OEICs to invest in sub-Saharan markets excluding South Africa.
With a high minimum investment level in recognition of the risks of investing in Africa, the fund aims to offer sophisticated investors access to such markets at an early stage of their economic development.
The fund raised 34 million during its three-week initial launch period and sales had reached 52 million by 18 March 2008.
Heart of Africa has two unusual features for New Star retail funds.
The funds charges include a performance fee to enhance the alignment of New Stars interests with those of the funds investors.
Secondly, mindful of the liquidity constraints of investing in Africa, we have decided to limit the size of the strategy once it reaches 100 million for a minimum of two years.
PROPERTY The sales and marketing highlight of the year within our UK retail fund operations was the launch and subsequent growth of the New Star International Property Fund as a complementary fund to the New Star UK Property Unit Trust.
The fund was created to respond to the growing interest among investors and financial advisers in property, making it a third core asset class within the retail funds market alongside equities and bonds.
It is the first fund of its kind to offer UK retail investors access to direct commercial property on an international basis.
Providing both geographic and asset class diversification for investors with traditional equity and fixed income portfolios, it quickly established its position in the marketplace.
Inflows during its initial offer period enabled it, we believe, to set a new record for a UK retail fund launch.
By the end of the year net inflows had totalled 583 million, making it the best-selling fund in the UK for 2007 according to the IMA.
Sales were also strong in early 2008 and the fund had increased in size to 661 million by 18 March 2008.
The UK Property Unit Trust also experienced strong inflows during the first half of last year, with net retail sales totalling 379 million.
The position was, however, reversed during the second half, with the full-year total for net retail sales shrinking to 110 million.
The main reason for this was that there was a significant deterioration in the UK commercial property market from the summer onwards as a result of previous interest rate rises and the impact of the global credit squeeze.
In response to such conditions and following a period in which outflows exceeded inflows, the pricing of units was switched from an offer to a bid basis in July.
This change reduced the price at which unitholders sell units by 4.1%.
Over the subsequent months, transactions within the UK property market declined, with leveraged buyers withdrawing from the market as a result of unwillingness by banks to advance funds.
In the absence of transactions, property valuers had to take increasing account of weakening sentiment in making valuations, with the result that direct property was marked down significantly.
In order to reflect the deteriorating sentiment towards commercial property, a special mid-month reduction to the value of the funds direct property was made by its valuer, CB Richard Ellis, in December and we announced at the same time that the 13 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued funds property would be valued at least twice a month until the market returned to a more stable state.
Our aim has been to keep property values as current as possible so that all unitholders are treated fairly, both those redeeming and those remaining as long-term holders.
At the same time, we have concentrated on maintaining the funds liquidity and daily trading during a period in which a number of life company and institutional property funds have closed to redemptions.
A warehouse complex at Heathrow was sold towards the end of the year and the funds largest building, a City of London office block, was sold in February 2008.
The result was that the funds liquidity position rose to in excess of 24% of its assets, one of the highest liquidity positions in the industry.
While the downturn in values since the middle of 2007 has been distressing for investors, we continue to believe in the importance of taking a long-term view of commercial property, with its key benefits being a relatively secure income stream capable of growing at least with inflation and its excellent diversification credentials.
So far in 2008, there has been a slowdown in the rate of decline in values and it is entirely possible that the market will bottom at some stage later this year.
Overall commercial property returns are likely to remain subdued over the rest of the year, however, with significant improvements possible in 2009.
Much will depend on broader UK economic trends but, if the UK economy does remain reasonably strong, the high-quality welllet prime properties that figure prominently in our UK funds portfolio should be among the first to show increases in capital values.
The International Property Fund is focusing its acquisition strategy on the Far East because economic growth trends are throwing up attractive opportunities within the regions direct commercial property markets.
The fund has maintained a cautious start towards acquisitions in Continental Europe in response to the credit squeeze affecting western economies.
INTERNATIONAL RETAIL FUNDS In what was a difficult year for our international retail sales business, the assets under management within our range of Dublin-domiciled equity and fixed income funds fell 8% to 1 billion.
Gross retail sales of the Dublin funds were strong at 1.4 billion, a reflection of our investment in building up our sales, marketing and administrative operations in Continental Europe, where the typical distribution channels for our products are open architecture banks and insurers.
During the year, we bolstered our Continental operations by moving into the Italian market and we also strengthened our team in Hong Kong.
We did, however, suffer from redemptions during the second half of the year as investors and intermediaries reacted negatively to volatile market conditions and the underperformance within our European funds.
In addition to providing marketing and operational support for our Dublin funds, the international sales team made further progress in extending the range of New Star funds available to international investors.
Our aim is to broaden the base of our international retail business.
Among recent initiatives, we have gained approval from the Singapore regulator to market the New Star International Property Fund, the New Star European Value Fund and the New Star Heart of Africa Fund to sophisticated investors.
The New Star Diversified Absolute Return Fund, the New Star European Value Fund, New Star Global Equity Fund and the New Star UK Alpha Fund have been registered in France, Italy and Spain while the New Star Global Financials Fund and the New Star Hidden Value Fund have been registered in Italy and Spain.
The long-term track records of our fund managers were recognised in various international awards for our funds last year.
The New Star European Growth Fund was named best Europe excluding the UK equity fund over three years in Lippers 2007 awards in France, Hong Kong, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
In Lippers French awards, the New Star Global Financials Fund was named best banks and other financials equity fund over three and five years while the New Star Hidden Value Fund was named the best UK equity fund over three years.
14 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued INSTITUTIONAL PORTFOLIOS New Stars institutional assets under management increased 8% during 2007 from 8.1 billion to 8.7 billion.
In performance terms, the highlight of the year was our Europe, Australasia and the Far East EAFE business, the majority of whose clients are North American pension funds and endowments.
In managing EAFE mandates, the institutional team takes a growth-oriented approach, focusing on larger, higher-growth companies.
This growth style enabled us comfortably to outperform the benchmark MSCI EAFE Total Return Index and generate returns that placed us within the first quartile of our peer group.
After the rapid growth of our EAFE business earlier in the decade, we spent 2006 and 2007 consolidating the operation, focusing on the needs of our existing clients and increasing the strength and depth of our institutional management team.
This measured approach, we believe, has yielded good returns, providing a sound base from which we can continue to build the business.
During 2008, we will actively seek new EAFE mandates.
In addition, our international institutional fund managers have built up considerable experience in recent years in investing in emerging market equities and we have been appointed to run a number of emerging market equity mandates.
Performance was strong in 2007, with our emerging markets equity portfolios comfortably outperforming the benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Total Return Index over the year.
Following this achievement, the teams emerging markets returns have also come in ahead of the benchmark on an annualised basis over two, three, four and five years.
We are currently focusing on marketing this capability because we believe there are attractive opportunities to build a complementary emerging markets business to sit alongside our core EAFE business.
In the UK, our investment in developing relationships with the main investment consultants led to significant growth of our business, with fund inflows totalling 429 million over the year.
Our principal product to date has been the management of specialist equity mandates mainly on behalf of pension funds and insurance companies.
We are, however, seeking to broaden the business.
One avenue of growth is to market the institutional teams emerging markets expertise to UK institutions.
Another is to offer UK institutions that lack their own in-house international direct commercial property arms the opportunity to gain international direct property exposure through the New Star International Property Fund.
ALTERNATIVE ASSETS Assets under management within New Stars alternative investments business grew by 33% to 1.6 billion during 2007.
The business comprises our hedge fund operation and our leveraged global property fund.
Within the New Star range of single-strategy hedge funds, assets under management grew from 958 million to 1.1 billion, of which 445 million was invested by the groups multi-strategy managed hedge funds.
The most significant growth was within the New Star UK Gemini Hedge Fund strategy, whose assets grew from 121 million to 263 million.
Among more-recently launched funds, the New Star Aurora Hedge Fund expanded its assets from 14 million to 42 million.
Single-strategy fund launches during the year included the New Star European Opportunities Fund, an opportunistic long-short equity fund with a concentrated portfolio, and the New Star Real Estate Hedge Fund, a global long-short real estate equity fund with a European bias.
A third new strategy, a long-short technology equity strategy, was launched within the multi-strategy funds while four of the groups smaller hedge funds were closed.
Outside the groups single-strategy funds, there was growth in Hedge ETS, New Stars unique investment product providing exposure to the RBC Hedge 250 Index, the most representative global index of hedge fund performance.
Assets within Hedge ETS grew from 77 million to 155 million predominantly as a result of a series of share issues through the year.
15 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Our global property fund, which has been designed for institutions and high net worth individuals, grew its invested assets from 203 million to 436 million during 2007.
By the year end, the fund had invested in 12 properties in seven countries.
During the year, we added private equity as a further alternative asset class when we organised the merger of two closed-end private equity funds to create the New Star Private Equity Investment Trust.
The merger was completed in July, with the enlarged fund being reconstituted as a fund of private equity funds, investing in limited partnerships and listed vehicles.
At the year end, following a series of successful realisations, the trusts net asset value stood at 70 million.
CLOSED-END FUNDS Assets within our closed-end funds business, which comprises a range of funds to suit diverse investment objectives, grew during 2007, with the number of funds increasing from five to six.
In addition to the New Star Private Equity Investment Trust and the expansion of Hedge ETS, a second tranche was issued of the Connor, Clark & Lunn Global Financials Fund.
The New Star Financial Opportunities Fund was successfully reconstructed in December, with its zero dividend preference shares repaid, ending its split capital status.
Now categorised as a conventional investment company, it benefits from gearing provided through low-cost borrowings under a prime broker agreement.
PRIVATE CLIENTS Funds under management within New Stars private client department grew from 303 million to 321 million, mainly as a result of new mandates.
Managing the assets within self-invested personal pensions was a significant growth area and the private client team built up its business managing assets within private OEICs.
Further progress was made in early 2008, when Intrinsic Financial Services, one of the most successful new multi-tie networks, appointed New Star to launch and manage a range of multi-manager multi-asset class funds designed specifically to meet the needs of Intrinsics clients.
RISKS As with all fund management groups, New Star is exposed to a range of risks.
Some of these risks are inherent in the business undertaken by the Group while others need to be managed.
Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and senior management.
The Board has established a Risk Management Committee to oversee the risks being run by the Group.
Responsibility for risk management, however, lies within each operational area and with senior management.
The main risks faced can be summarised into five main categories strategic and business risk, financial risk, investment risk, employee risk and operational risk.
STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISK Strategic and business risk represents the risk of pursuing an inappropriate strategy or implementing poorly an appropriate strategy.
Any strategy needs to be amended to take into consideration changes in the dynamic market conditions.
Strategic and business risks include the following: having an inappropriate or out-of-date product range: particular asset classes losing their appeal: pressure on margins caused by competition and changes to distribution channels: loss of business reputation or negative publicity: failure to attract new assets under management and or loss of existing assets under management: loss of access to specific distribution channels: and becoming overly reliant on one client, product, fund or employee.
16 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued FINANCIAL RISKS The Group is not only operationally geared but also financially geared.
The Group had net debt of approximately 246 million at 31 December 2007.
Accordingly, we have had to manage our interest rate risk and banking covenants.
The Group also has some limited exposure to currency movements on short-term debtors and on seed capital investments.
The main financial risks include the impact of gearing on profitability, the existence of borrowing covenants and interest rate exposure.
INVESTMENT RISK The Group is paid by its clients to take investment risk and to outperform over the medium and long term.
Any sustained period of poor performance reduces the value of the assets under management and could lead to withdrawals by investors.
Investment risk, therefore, includes sustained poor performance and market falls negatively affecting investment sentiment.
EMPLOYEE RISK The Groups success depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain highly-skilled senior fund managers and asset management sales, marketing and customer support personnel.
Loss of key personnel could either impact on the management of the Group or lead to a loss of assets under management.
Ensuring that there is a good culture and working environment together with the establishment of appropriate incentive packages are key to attracting and retaining the best personnel.
Employee risk, therefore, includes the loss of key management, the loss of key personnel and incentive packages that do not encourage the performance necessary to develop the business.
OPERATIONAL RISK Operational risk is inherent in all of the Groups activities and inadequate planning, processes or controls could result in financial risk or loss.
While New Star outsources a number of key functions to third parties, which usually have financial responsibilities for operational losses, a number of operational risks remain.
Operational risks include the following: a process failure, such as a breach of a prospectus or investment management agreement: a material regulatory breach: a key systems failure: a business continuity disaster recovery failure: the failure of an outsourced provider: a dealing or other administrative error: project risk, especially information technology-related projects: and fraud, whether external or internal.
