Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 22 How we are performing Group Finance Directors report Group results Group Highlights m 2007 2006 % change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 1,624 1,459 11% Profit before tax IFRS 1,750 1,714 2% Adjusted operating earnings per share IFRS basis 16.9p 15.1p 12% Basic earnings per share IFRS basis 19.2p 17.0p 13% Adjusted operating profit EEV basis pre-tax 1,621 1,687 4% Adjusted operating earnings per share EEV basis 17.2p 17.8p 3% Basic earnings per ordinary share from Jonathan Nicholls continuing operations 18.3p 15.8p 16% Group Finance Director Basic earnings per ordinary share from 1 discontinued operations 0.9p 1.2p 25% Adjusted Group embedded value bn 9.4 8.9 6% Adjusted Group embedded value 2 per share 173.3p 161.1p 8% 3 Value of new business 266 253 5% Present value of new 3,4 business premiums 13,878 12,185 14% 3,4 Life assurance sales APE 1,760 1,576 12% 3 Unit trust mutual funds sales 8,268 8,408 2% Net client cash flows bn 23.4 22.3 5% 5 Funds under management bn 278.9 237.1 18% 6 Return on equity % 13.2% 12.0% Return on Embedded Value % 13.2% 13.8% Full dividend in respect of the financial year 2007 6.85p 6.25p 10% 1 The results of the Groups South African general insurance business, Mutual & Federal, are shown as a discontinued operation in these financial statements.
The Group is currently in discussions with the investment group, Royal Bafokeng Holdings Proprietary Limited RBH, which may or may not result in the sale to RBH of a controlling interest in Mutual & Federal.
2 The 2006 comparative has been restated from 157.2p as published at 31 December 2006 to reflect the value of own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs.
3 2006 comparatives restated to include acquired Skandia businesses on a pro forma 12 month basis.
4 Restated due to change in the calculation of US Life APE calculation to align with the value of new business calculation.
5 Restated to exclude Spanish Vida business sold in 2007.
6 Return on equity is calculated using adjusted operating profit after tax and minority interests on an IFRS basis with allowance for accrued coupon payments on the Groups hybrid capital.
The average shareholders equity used in the calculation excludes hybrid capital.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 23 Our results reflect a healthy overall performance from around the Group.
Funds under management grew by 18%, with operating profit benefitting from both a better than expected result from our Skandia acquisition and good progress in our other businesses.
Net client cash flows delivered through sustained 2006 restated at investment performance Group Highlights m 2007 2006 2007 rates During 2007 the Groups net client cash flows were a very Adjusted operating profit healthy 23.4 billion, representing 9.9% of opening funds under Africa 1,254 1,118 988 management, with good contributions resulting from business United States 260 264 244 unit investment performance.
Our US Asset Management business Europe 268 239 239 delivered excellent net inflows of 17.6 billion, while the Skandia Other 2 11 businesses achieved 5.3 billion of net inflows.
For OMSA, 1,784 1,622 1,472 net client cash flows remained a challenge.
Other shareholders expenses 41 33 33 Finance costs 119 130 130 Solid sales In Europe we continued to benefit from being the open-architecture Adjusted operating profit before leader in the UK with strong life assurance sales, whilst growth tax and minority interests 1,624 1,459 1,309 continued in ELAM with excellent unit trust sales.
In Nordic, Tax 418 395 354 investment in the sales channel led to a turnaround from the Minority interests 292 274 247 decline in Annual Premium Equivalent APE sales experienced Adjusted operating profit after during the first half of the year.
In the second half, sales in that tax and minority interests 914 790 708 region recovered, resulting in a 3% year-on-year increase overall.
In the US, APE sales were up by 47% in US Dollar terms, driven Adjusted operating EPS pence 16.9 15.1 13.1 by exceptional growth in Bermuda.
South African life sales were 7% higher in Rand terms although 5% lower in Sterling.
Adjusted Embedded Value per share 173.3p The adjusted Group embedded value EV per share was 173.3p Value of new business up 5% and Adjusted Group EV was 9.4 billion at 31 December 2007 The value of new business VNB grew to 266 million, driven 31 December 2006: 8.9 billion.
This represents an increase by excellent sales in US Life and strong sales in the UK.
The movement in EV per profit margin increased to 21% for the US Life business, compared share has largely been driven by the net impact of profit flows, with 18% in 2006.
The UK APE margin of 10% was sustained particularly from non-covered business, strong investment market during the period and it is expected that this business will meet movements and a slight impact of currency appreciation.
In Nordic, the APE margin declined per share is after dividend payments and has also been affected by mainly due to increased costs from the new Liv-Link agreement, a reduction in the share price of the listed subsidiaries.
The share strengthened lapse assumptions, lowered charges and a different buyback programme to 31 December 2007 increased the EV per business mix, whereas in ELAM we exceeded our margin target.
In OMSA, the margin declined slightly from the 2006 result largely due to operating assumptions and the VNB decreased slightly 7 Following the adjustment for the value of ESOP shares and furthermore allowing in local currency terms.
for the opening adjustment calculated now as part of the fair value balance sheet exercise, the adjusted Group EV at 1 January 2007 was 8.8 billion and the EV per share at 1 January 2007 was 159.9p.
IFRS adjusted operating earnings per share 16.9p In spite of the significant impact of Rand and US Dollar currency Return on Equity continued to improve depreciation, and the full impact of additional shares issued in Return on Equity for the Group improved to 13% from 12%, relation to the acquisition of Skandia, the Group produced a reflecting the improvement in the earnings run-rate compared to 12% increase over 2006 in its overall earnings per share.
2006, particularly for OMSA, Nedbank, US Asset Management and the UK.
In addition, the long-term investment return improved, Assuming constant exchange rates, 2006 adjusted operating EPS partly due to strong investment performance of the shareholders would have been 13.1p, with the currency impact being 1.5p and equity in South Africa.
the impact of the increase in issued shares being 0.5p.
2007 EPS increased on this basis by 29%.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 24 Group Finance Directors report continued Group Highlights The Group has continued to develop its Economic Capital programme and a comfortable surplus exists within each of our South African, Long-term Asset General US and European regions, meaning that the Group is not reliant 2007 m business Management Banking Insurance Other for its economic solvency on the need to transfer capital Adjusted operating profit between geographies.
IFRS basis pre-tax 771 288 636 89 160 Adjusted operating profit The Group is in compliance with the Financial Groups Directive EEV basis pre-tax 758 288 636 89 150 FGD capital requirements, which apply to all EU-based Profit before tax IFRS 822 299 650 82 103 financial conglomerates.
Our FGD surplus was 1.7 billion Value of new business 266 at 31 December 2007 and we seek to maintain a FGD surplus Life assurance sales APE 1,760 of around 750 million to 1 billion.
Unit trust mutual funds sales 8,268 Capital requirements are set by the Board, while recognising the Net client cash flows bn 4.4 19.0 need to maintain appropriate credit ratings and to meet regulatory Funds under requirements at both the Group and local business level.
management bn 82.0 193.3 3.6 Other 2006 m Our 350 million share buyback programme was announced at the beginning of October 2007 and we have so far repurchased Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 759 236 545 82 163 approximately 184 million shares through the London and Johannesburg markets at a total sterling equivalent cost of Adjusted operating profit EEV basis pre-tax 981 236 545 82 157 282 million.
Profit before tax IFRS 742 294 555 132 9 Value of new business 244 Holding company cash generation Life assurance sales APE 1,520 The table below shows the cash flows of the Old Mutual plc Unit trust mutual holding company and its satellite holding companies.
We believe funds sales 8,408 this provides a clear picture of the cash receipts and payments Net client cash flows bn 5.3 17.0 of the holding companies.
Funds under management bn 72.8 163.1 3.5 Highlights m 2007 2006 Total net debt at start of period 2,407 1,278 Robust capital position Operational flows Operational receipts 868 535 The Groups gearing level remains comfortably within our target Operational expenses 152 156 range, with senior debt gearing at 31 December 2007 of 1.9% Other expenses 71 645 379 5.9% at 31 December 2006 and total gearing, including hybrid capital, of 20.5% 21.4% at 31 December 2006.
Capital flows Capital receipts 69 356 In January 2007, the Group issued 750 million of Lower Tier 2 Acquisitions 66 1,287 Preferred Callable Securities, the proceeds of which were used, in Organic investment 220 217 214 1,145 part, to finance the repayment of a 400 million senior Eurobond Debt and equity movements that matured in April 2007.
Old Mutual plc dividend paid 333 281 Share repurchase 177 New equity issuance 12 14 Other movements 57 441 96 363 Total net debt at end of period 2,420 2,407 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 25 The Groups Return on Equity improved to 13% from 12%, reflecting an improvement in the earnings run-rate compared to 2006, particularly at OMSA, Nedbank, US Asset Management and the UK.
3 Total net debt within the holding company at the end of 2006 Value of new business Return on Equity was 2,407 million.
A total of 937 million of operational and m % capital receipts was received from business units during 2007.
266 13.2 253 220 million was invested in the businesses and 333 million 5% 12.0 1 0% was used to pay the 2006 final and 2007 interim dividends.
In 2007, 177 million was spent on repurchasing shares.
Total net debt at the end of 2007 was 2,420 million.
Taxation 06 07 06 07 The Groups effective IFRS adjusted operating profit tax rate has decreased to 26% from 27% in 2006.
This reflects Mutual & Federal paying a lower special dividend in 2007 and reductions in the tax 3 3 rates in the UK and Germany, partially offset by a changed profit Life assurance sales APE Unit trust mutual fund sales mix in South Africa.
m m 1,760 8,408 8,268 Dividend 1 2% - 2% 1,576 The directors of Old Mutual plc are recommending a final dividend 8 of 4.55p per share for the year ended 31 December 2007, to be paid on 30 May 2008.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.3p per share paid in November 2007, this makes a total of 6.85p per share for the year, which represents an increase of 10% 9 06 07 06 07 over 2006.
The indicative Rand equivalent of this final dividend is 68.92c, making a total of 103.75c, an increase of 17%.
The Boards policy on dividends is to seek to achieve steadily increasing Comparative information returns to shareholders over time, reflecting the underlying rate of The reporting format for Old Mutual plc for the 2007 reporting progress and cash flow requirements of Old Mutuals businesses.
period is as follows: 8 The record date for this dividend payment is the close of business on Friday, 9 May All Group comparative reporting information on earnings includes 2008 for all the Exchanges where the Companys shares are listed.
The last day to trade cum-dividend on the JSE and on the Namibian, Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock Skandia from the date of acquisition of 1 February 2006 unless Exchanges will be Friday, 2 May 2008 and on the London Stock Exchange, Tuesday, indicated otherwise.
The shares will trade ex-dividend from the opening of business on Within the financial statements the Europe division comparative Monday, 5 May 2008 on the JSE and the Namibian, Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock Exchanges, and from the opening of business on Wednesday, 7 May 2008 on the information is from the date of acquisition of 1 February 2006.
Shareholders on the South African, Zimbabwe and Malawi Where Europe information is shown within the Business Review, branch registers and the Namibian section of the principal register will be paid the this has been adjusted on a pro-forma basis to reflect ownership local currency equivalents of the dividend under the dividend access trust arrangements established in each country.
Shareholders who hold their shares through VPC AB, the from 1 January 2006.
Swedish nominee, will be paid the equivalent of the dividend in Swedish Kronor SEK.
Local currency equivalents of the dividend for all five territories will be determined by the Company using exchange rates prevailing at close of business on Thursday, 17 April 2008 and will be announced by the Company on Friday, 18 April 2008.
Share certificates may not be dematerialised or rematerialised on the South African branch register between Monday, 5 May and Friday, 9 May 2008, both dates inclusive, and transfers between the registers may not take place during that period.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 26 An award-winning Group Skandia Investment Life & Pensions Moneyfacts Awards 2007 Category Best Online Service Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued Europe Europe Old Mutual operates in Europe principally through Skandia, Highlights the financial services group acquired in 2006.
Through Skandia, Old Mutual has an enlarged footprint in Europe with a strong Successful launch of Skandia Investment Group franchise in many markets, and the potential to grow this further.
Old Mutuals European team have responsibility for the Skandia Nordic sales turnaround in the fourth quarter operations in the UK & Offshore division, the Nordic division Launch of Selestia Investment Solutions in August and the Europe and Latin America division.
2007: a platform that will enable advisers to Skandia has operations in 20 countries and serves many other offer state-of-the-art financial planning advice markets through its offshore solutions, showing growth in the to customers majority of these.
The UK and Sweden are Skandias principal markets, where a broad range of investment solutions is offered.
Launch of the new Skandia green brand Skandia is steadily increasing its presence in Continental Europe visibly identifying Skandia as part of the at the same time as it is experiencing a high degree of activity in Old Mutual Group its selected growth markets in Asia and Latin America.
Skandia uses the distribution channel judged to be best suited for the markets where it operates.
Where there is a viable independent financial advice channel, distribution is primarily through this intermediated route.
Skandia also has an in-house sales force in Sweden and Latin America.
In the Nordic region Skandia operates SkandiaBanken, a highly successful internet bank that provides a further distribution channel for Skandias products.
The majority of revenue is currently generated by unit-linked sales in the UK, Nordic and Continental Europe, with mutual funds being dominant in Latin America.
Skandia pioneered open-architecture, whereby a wide range Funds under management of investment funds run by third-party fund managers can be accessed through its products.
To reinforce this model, Skandia has built up an investment management capability that manages 60.6bn relationships with third-party fund managers and packages up investment fund solutions that can be used by advisers and investors.
The open-architecture model is increasingly popular Funds under management with customers and advisers as it gives access to a wide range as percentage of Group of third-party funds in addition to Skandias own funds.
For Old Mutual, it is appealing as an investment model as it requires little capital.
22% Skandia continues to develop the significant talent it has in operating the open-architecture model.
In 2007, Skandia Investment Group SIG was created as a global investment Growth in funds under management function.
This function leverages the expertise in management all Skandia operations to build multi-manager portfolios, research selected funds and develop structured products.
Additionally, SIG is responsible for sourcing third-party funds and agreeing terms 18 % with the fund management group in order that Skandia has premier open-architecture fund platforms.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 27 Skandia Cowes Week Skandia has been title sponsor of Skandia Cowes Week, the worlds oldest and largest regatta of its type, since 1995.
With over 8,500 competitors, around 100,000 spectators and a media audience of millions, the sponsorship has been an excellent way of promoting the Skandia brand to our target audience.
As well as providing significant brand exposure the sponsorship has also been highly successful in delivering on customer  and employee engagement objectives.
UK & Offshore Protection Skandia UK includes three business units: UK Skandia Life and Skandia has decided not to participate in the mass-market, Selestia Investment Solutions, Skandia Investment Management price-driven protection market, and instead offers solutions for SIML, and Skandia International.
With over a million customers the premium protection market.
In this market, Skandia offers and 42 billion of funds under management, Skandia is one of the two main solutions: unit-linked whole life and critical illness cover.
fastest growing UK savings companies.
Average premium sizes are high and Skandia has a significant market share in these segments.
Typical customers include Skandia UK focuses on long-term savings.
It offers unit-linked the self-employed and entrepreneurs and also clients seeking investments through an open-architecture fund platform enabling protection linked to efficient inheritance tax solutions.
Protection access to over 900 external funds and manager-of-managers accounts for approximately 3% of SLACs APE sales.
In the UK, it distributes its products via independent financial advisers IFAs, targeting Selestia Investment Solutions affluent customers.
Business profile Selestia Investment Solutions is the newly developed investment Skandias success in the UK has been framed around a few platform often referred to as a fund supermarket that combines key attributes: it has established a strong IFA franchise through the reputation and strengths of the Selestia business owned excellent service and a distinctive proposition: it has excelled in by Old Mutual prior to the Skandia acquisition and Skandias the high-growth open-architecture segment of the UK market and MultiFUNDS platform.
The investment platform gives advisers it has consistently brought innovative ideas to market.
In 2007, and their customers access to Individual Savings Accounts ISA, Skandia developed a new investment platform, Selestia Investment PEP and Collective Investment Accounts, which are provided by Solutions, and in doing so, has continued to set the industry Skandia MultiFUNDS Limited, Collective Retirement Accounts standard in the UK savings market.
and Collective Investment Bonds which are provided by Selestia Life & Pensions Limited and an Offshore Collective Investment Skandia Life SLAC Bond, distributed by Skandia MultiFUNDS Limited for Old Mutual Business profile International Guernsey Limited.
SLAC is the core of Skandia UK, accounting for approximately 45% 19 billion of Skandia UKs 42 billion of funds under Selestia Investment Solutions offers a choice of over 900 funds management.
SLAC operates in three product segments: pensions, from third party fund managers and from a suite of in-house investment bonds, and protection.
Pensions and investment bonds manager-of-managers funds.
It achieved solid performance in comprise 97% of SLACs sales on an APE basis.
2007, with net client cash flows of 1.4 billion.
Growth was driven by a record ISA season, increased use of platforms across the Pensions industry and Skandia's strong proposition in e-commerce solutions.
SLAC provides a range of pensions to meet the retirement-planning Platforms are increasingly core to advisers business models and needs of individuals, employers and trustees, and also distributes Selestia Investment Solutions is well placed to benefit from this a self-invested personal pension SIPP.
All of its pension products transformation of the UK financial services industry.
offer wide investment choice in funds, on a unit-linked basis.
80% of client assets are invested with third-party fund managers Once the Selestia Investment Solutions platform has been and 20% with Skandias own manager-of-managers solutions.
completed, the Skandia MultiFUNDS business will be migrated Approximately 10.5 billion is invested in pensions.
This is expected to be in the second half of 2008.
In the interim, Skandia MultiFUNDS remains a standInvestment Bonds alone offer, primarily for existing customers.
SLACs MultiBond range comprises single premium investments which are tax-efficient for certain consumer segments.
They provide unit-linked investments with the opportunity to make tax-efficient withdrawals of capital.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 28 An award-winning Group Skandia International Investment International Fund and Product Awards 2007 Category Best Commitment to Service Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued Skandia Investment Management SIML Skandia International Business profile Business profile SIML is a dynamic asset management company focused Skandia International includes Royal Skandia, based in the on providing innovative multi-manager funds to professional Isle of Man, Skandia Life Ireland based in Dublin, Skandia Leben intermediaries.
These leverage the investment research capability in Liechtenstein and Old Mutual International based in Guernsey.
by creating blended solutions of third-party managers with different styles and processes.
Since SIMLs launch in March Operating across the borders of over 20 countries, Skandia 2003, funds under management have grown from around International is the offshore and cross-border function for the Skandia 750 million including funds held on behalf of other Group Group.
Skandia International creates real value for Old Mutual, with companies to 5.1 billion.
The number of funds has expanded 2007 results exceeding expectations.
Significant growth during from ten to 42 within four years, leading to greater diversification 2007 resulted in funds under management exceeding 12 billion and appeal to a wider client base.
The key to success has been innovation and fund quality.
Since The business has high growth potential and achieves better margins 2003, the business has been at the forefront of the UK fund than domestic UK businesses.
There is also further growth potential management industry, introducing a number of innovative new for this business through improved co-operation with Skandias funds to the market that have proven popular with advisers operations across Europe and the Nordic region and, longer term, and investors.
This focus on advisers and their clients has led across the wider Old Mutual Group.
Skandia to be named Best MultiManager at the prestigious Money Marketing Awards 2007 for the third consecutive year.
Royal Skandia, based in the Isle of Man, provides products that allow UK and non-UK investors to enjoy tax-free growth.
The Isle of Man With the launch of the Global Best Ideas Fund in 2006, SIMLs is a leading offshore investment location with valuable client fund proposition has been taken to a new level.
The funds, which protection through tight regulation and policyholder compensation are run by ten of the industrys best fund managers, who each provision.
Skandia Life International division also provides products select their ten best stock ideas, have continued to be positively into the Finnish domestic market.
In 2007, the launch of the UK Strategic Best Ideas Fund, which allows managers to benefit from In line with all Skandia UK products, the International range offers both rising and falling share prices, was also well received.
multi-manager choice and flexibility, with access to a range of funds run by third-party managers and through SIML.
The flexibility SIML continues to work closely with advisers to stay at the forefront of products and services enables clients not only to invest in of the multi-manager industry and continues to explore further virtually any fund in the market, but also via different currencies opportunities, particularly within the Best Ideas concept, to deliver and trust arrangements.
innovative investment solutions to the market.
Bankhall Bankhall is a stand-alone business that reports into Skandia UK.
It provides support services to directly-regulated financial advisers.
The Compliance Consultancy element of the proposition is designed to deliver support to these advisers to meet everchanging regulatory requirements.
Business Development Support, a business-to-business web-based portal, assists advisers to achieve profitable business growth.
Bankhall has a clear model to demonstrate the value it provides for the advisers it serves, and this has enabled it to maintain a market-leading position and to improve its profitability during 2007.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 29 Tour fide Pologne, Poland As sponsor of the Tour fide Pologne, Poland's largest cycling event, Skandias campaign promoted a new communication style based on the association of savings and investment with cycling.
The main slogan in Polish expressed a connection to changing gear.
The campaign was well received in the Polish market and the Skandia brand was further strengthened thanks to strong public recognition of this cycling event.
Performance during 2007 International business increased in the year, benefitting from strong portfolio bond sales into the UK in the first half and single premium 1 Pro forma business in Latin America and the Far East.
A tail-off in offshore Highlights m 2007 2006 % change institutional short-term business following a tax change in the 2 IFRS adjusted operating profit pre-tax 173 134 29% UK Budget was offset by higher regular premium business in the EV adjusted operating profit latter part of the year.
Although this business has experienced covered business pre-tax 266 226 18% increased competition, we believe the offshore market has good Life assurance sales APE 740 646 15% potential for growth.
UK life assurance sales APE 468 396 18% Unit trust sales 2,275 3,227 30% Unit trust performance impacted by revised business mix Value of new business post-tax 77 65 18% Although the year started very positively, the latter part of 2007 New business margin post-tax 10% 10% reflected the influence of increased uncertainty and volatility in Present value of new business premiums 6,297 5,350 18% equity markets.
Unit trust sales were 30% down on 2006.
This is Net client cash flows bn 3.9 4.9 20% largely accounted for by the low-margin institutional mutual fund Funds under management bn 41.9 36.0 16% business being significantly down in the year, with no recurrence of the exceptional business volumes experienced in the third quarter 1 The 2006 numbers are stated on a pro-forma basis assuming ownership for 12 months rather than 11 months and have been restated to include the results of 2006.
The year concluded with Selestia Investment Solutions, of Old Mutual International.
our new market-leading open-architecture platform, experiencing 2 From 2007 the treatment of Selestia deferred fee income has been harmonised increasing volumes and providing a solid base for future growth.
with Skandia MultiFUNDS, reducing the 2007 result.
The impact of policyholder tax has been smoothed from 2007.
Strong growth in IFRS adjusted operating profit Positive net client cash flows and strong growth IFRS adjusted operating profit increased by 29% to 173 million in funds under management for the year.
The improvement was driven by a significantly higher Net client cash flows were 3.9 billion for the year, representing level of funds under management throughout the year as a result of 11% of opening funds under management.
While net client cash positive net client cash flows being sustained well into 2007 as flows were down on 2006, they remained strongly positive, with well as improved rebate terms.
The effect of both of these factors 2006 being inflated by the post-A-Day effect and the exceptional was a rise in asset-based fees.
In addition, there was a positive institutional mutual fund business mentioned below.
Good inflows, impact from growth in investment income.
Both revenue and cost combined with favourable market movements during the first half benefits continue to be derived from increased scale and synergies.
of the year, drove an increase in funds under management during 2007 as a whole.
In the second half, growth was constrained Higher EV adjusted operating profit covered business by volatile markets which affected investment performance and EV adjusted operating profit before tax increased by 18% to investor sentiment.
This was partially offset by continued positive 266 million.
The value of new business improved 18% to net client cash flows.
Expense synergies and improved mix across the business helped sustain the new business margin of 10%, with Pension sales higher sales of single premium pensions being especially strong.
The increase in life assurance sales APE for 2007 was largely driven by UK pensions.
Single premiums were the key driver, The EV adjusted operating profit includes 43 million post-tax with sales of both Selestias Collective Retirement Account and of positive impact from operating assumption changes, largely due Skandias Monocharge pension up by over 25%.
to a reduction in corporation tax assumptions from 30% to 28%.
Operating experience for persistency and expenditure continued in line with expectations.
Modest offsetting revisions were required, with positive impacts arising from improvement in the allowance for fee income following continuous commercial negotiations and increasing purchasing power.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 30 An award-winning Group Skandia International Investment International Fund and Product Awards 2007 Category Best International Life Product Range Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued Further innovative investment solutions Skandia responded positively to the FSAs review of the retail distribution market, supporting the proposal that there should be Skandia Investment Management SIML s unconstrained two types of distribution: an advice channel and a no-advice Best Ideas range was expanded in September 2007 with the channel.
Skandia has also supported the concept of customerlaunch of UK Strategic Best Ideas.
UK Strategic Best Ideas is the agreed remuneration and has suggested that individuals first multi-manager UK UCITS III fund to use long and short equity interfacing with consumers should have appropriate qualifications positions, and has gathered over 90 million in assets since its and be members of appropriate professional bodies that require launch, despite the difficult market environment.
commitment to a code of ethics.
Skandia's risk-focused multi-manager funds have delivered strong The Pre-Budget Report of October 2007 proposed a reduction absolute returns, typically with volatility far lower than that of its in UK capital gains tax CGT to 18% for unit trust investments, peers and, consequently, the majority of these funds have delivered without a similar reduction in CGT for insurance bonds.
bonds will continue to be tax-advantageous for certain consumer segments and there will continue to be demand for such solutions.
Continued progress with integration activity However, total bond demand is likely to soften and we have Integration activities remain on target to deliver the committed already seen a material reduction in bond sales since November savings as well as providing significant revenue potential.
It is likely that such demand will switch towards collective Selestia Investment Solutions platform was launched in August investments, outside an insurance tax-wrapper, where it should 2007, and its full benefits will flow through following migration be noted that Skandia UK has a market-leading position, albeit of Skandia MultiFUNDS investors on to the new platform in the with lower margins than for investment bonds.
We launched the Skandia Investment Group during the course of the year.
This brings sharper focus and energy Skandia Internationals business is geographically diversified, with to investment product manufacturing and strengthens our multisales in Europe, the Middle East, the Far East, Africa and Latin manager business in a rapidly growing industry.
It also improves America, as well as in the UK.
Historically, non-UK business has revenue for divisions and shareholders through broadened and been sourced predominantly from English-speaking expatriates, strengthened investment products and greater leverage of buying with some local nationals on a selective basis.
Expatriate business power with fund groups.
is expected to continue, with higher growth from local nationals as economies develop and Skandia becomes an increasingly Market environment and outlook local brand.
Following regulatory changes in April 2006 designed to simplify the UK pensions regime A-Day, the pensions market grew strongly Risk management during the first half of 2007, and was dominated by single premium Skandia UKs risk framework is common across all its business transfers, an area of the market where Skandia is dominant.
Risks are considered in the context of our business plan did, however, slow in the second half of the year as the A-Day and are managed in accordance with Old Mutual Groups risk effect began to unwind.
governance principles, which are described in more detail in the Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters Industry sales growth is likely to be more modest in 2008 as later in this document.
investor confidence continues to be affected by volatile equity markets.
In addition, competition is intensifying as traditional players build their own open-architecture offerings.
This is especially evident in the new partnerships that are being formed between fund platforms and traditional life companies.
Looking forward, Skandia should marginally outperform the UK industry through its strong IFA franchise and multi-manager proposition.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 31 Skandia, Sweden Swedish campaign to promote our pension offering, the translation reads: Would you choose Skandia if you received SEK1.7 million more in pension capital?
Nordic Skandia Liv offers life and pension insurance in the traditional life market.
The company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia, Skandia has operated in the Swedish market for over 150 years but is a mutual company.
It operates within a strict local legal and its Swedish business offers a full set of financial products.
framework that does not provide its holding company with power Skandia and its mutual subsidiary, Skandia Liv, hold a leading to control it in such a way as to access the benefits usually position in the local life assurance market measured by new associated with share ownership which instead accrue to business, with a combined customer base of 1.9 million customers Skandia Livs policyholders.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not in their Nordic operations.
We also have a growing unit-linked consolidated in the Groups accounts.
and life business, as well as a healthcare business, in Denmark.
In Norway, we have a successful banking operation and also Unit-linked offer healthcare products.
With a full range of product offerings traditional life, unit-linked, banking, financial advisory, mutual Within unit-linked, Skandia offers a wide range of funds in various funds and healthcare we are well positioned in a growing classes and with varying risk profiles.
Funds, including those savings market.
offered by Skandias own fund companies, are managed externally and managers are selected and monitored using our unique Business profile evaluation process.
In 2007, in order to be more responsive to client needs, we offered new investment opportunities which Our vision is to have the most satisfied customers and to be the followed a more streamlined evaluation process.
Client funds in leading savings provider in the long-term savings market.
The key the Nordic unit-linked business amounted to SEK96.8 billion at challenge going forward is to build an offering that provides both the end of 2007, of which 82% was invested in equities.
We will end customers and distributors with advisory tools and top quality continue to work with new investment portfolio products during advice, innovative products, top-quartile returns and the markets 2008.
During 2007 the Swedish unit-linked business received best client service.
The integration between Skandia, Skandia Liv an award for the best three-year fund returns of all Swedish unitand SkandiaBanken has continued during 2007.
There are strong linked companies.
The Danish unit-linked business has had the potential synergies in terms of scale, brand, cross-selling and best fund returns of all unit-linked companies in Denmark eight administration.
Skandias products are widely distributed in quarters in a row.
Sweden, with sales through IFAs, brokers, its own sales force and online via the internet.
During the coming years we will be Traditional life improving and developing our customer interface, enriching our product offering and making our products available to customers As the markets largest life company, Skandia Liv is active in via different channels.
both the private and occupational pensions segments of the Swedish traditional life market.
Skandia Liv provides insurance Swedes are avid savers and 31% of net savings are invested products with a security profile featuring long-term savings with in unit-linked products.
Corporate pensions are the dominant a guaranteed yield plus protection coverage.
Traditional life segment of the Swedish life market, a sector where Skandia has products are an important part of the integrated product offering in traditionally been very strong.
However, the corporate market the Swedish market.
Skandia Liv has one of the highest solvency is changing, with pressure on prices and collective agreement levels of any life company in the Swedish market.
At 31 December procurements which we have to take into consideration when we 2007, this was 179% and funds under management amounted develop our strategies to increase sales in this segment.
During 2007 Skandia Liv was ranked top are in place to increase new sales in the private segment as well.
traditional life assurer by independent Swedish consultants Especially within unit-linked, we have seen mounting competition and distributors.
from online product providers, among others.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 32 An award-winning Group SkandiaBanken InternetWorld Magazine Category Best Internet Bank 2007 Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued Mutual funds Performance during 2007 1 Skandia also offers mutual fund products via its banking subsidiary, Pro forma Highlights SEKm 2007 2006 % change SkandiaBanken.
Skandia Fund Products offering is accessible for unit-linked savings, direct savings, individual pension savings via IFRS adjusted operating profit pre-tax 874 1,075 19% SkandiaBanken and for premium pension savings via the national EV adjusted operating profit  PPM system.
Individuals decide covered business pre-tax 700 1,589 56% personally how they wish their money to be managed by choosing Life assurance sales APE 1,992 1,942 3% from PPMs range of funds.
Mutual funds sales 3,474 2,940 18% Value of new business post-tax 254 529 52% Banking New business margin post-tax 13% 27% Present value of new business premiums 8,700 9,675 10% From having been a niche player in the Nordic banking market, Net client cash flows SEK bn 2.7 3.5 23% SkandiaBanken is now established as a full-range online bank Funds under management SEK bn 116.7 107.1 9% and is well positioned to take advantage of the growing demand for direct self-service solutions in the Nordic savings market.
Its 1 The 2006 numbers are a pro-forma result assuming ownership for 12 months focus is to sell the divisions non-insurance products and hence rather than 11 months.
strengthen the offering to small enterprises and private individuals.
The bank also serves as Nordics direct distribution channel, Strong market performance contributed targeting self-service clients with a full range of savings products to funds under management through a new online platform.
The bank has won several awards Funds under management increased to SEK116.7 billion due to in Norway and Sweden for its outstanding service.
During 2007 solid investment performance and continued positive net client the savings offering was strengthened by widening the fund cash flows.
Volatile equity markets during the latter part of 2007 range and introducing discounted share trading.
This was a major slowed asset growth, but closing funds under management were shift in strategic direction from a mortgage bank dependent on still up by 9% compared to 2006. the capital market to a bank focused on long-term finance and day-to-day transactions.
Private Healthcare Skandia offers companies and their employees private healthcare solutions as an adjunct to the national healthcare systems.
Interest in complementary and alternative solutions to national healthcare systems remains great in the Nordic countries.
However, competition in this area has intensified considerably.
The healthcare business in Skandia is also a powerful support business to the unit-linked and traditional life business in Sweden and Denmark, adding value to the pension scheme products and also providing an opening to further business.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 33 Sales performance improving Underlying IFRS adjusted operating profit solid Life sales on an APE basis exceeded the prior year by 3%.
The IFRS adjusted operating profit decreased by 19% for the year negative sales trend experienced in the first half of 2007 was primarily due to the introduction of the Liv-Link agreement, which finally reversed in the third quarter and continued to improve deals with the administration and distribution costs associated with significantly during the fourth quarter with a consequent jointly-marketed products.
The unit-linked business in Denmark also contributed to this turnaround with a strong sales EV adjusted operating profit impacted by market pressure performance.
The improvement achieved in Sweden was the result EV adjusted operating profit was down 56% on 2006 mainly of broadening the product and fund ranges and a refocus of our driven by a net negative effect from assumption changes and sales initiatives through our tied sales force up 47% comparing recalibration of risk margin of SEK735 million in 2007.
There was the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2006 and the strong price pressure in the Swedish market and, in order to adapt broker channel up 15% comparing the fourth quarter of 2007 to to market conditions, fees were reduced for tick-the-box collective the fourth quarter of 2006.
The tied sales force performance was agreements and tendered corporate business during 2007. driven by a greater focus on unit-linked products.
From 1 February Persistency assumptions have also been strengthened, offset by 2007 the tax advantages of the Swedish Kapitalpension product capitalisation of future waiver of premium business profits, which were removed following a change in regulations.
This negatively was previously not valued.
The drop in value of new business was impacted sales as Kapitalpension products accounted for 10% another cause of the lower EV adjusted operating profit in 2007 of sales in 2006. compared to 2006.
Margins under pressure in the short term Continued growth in banking business and increased focus Life new business margin was down from an exceptional 27% in Both deposit and loan books at SkandiaBanken continued to 2006 to 13% in 2007.
The decline can be attributed to a change increase in 2007.
The growth in loans has slowed down, but the in arrangements between Skandia AB and Skandia Liv the Livnet interest margin was maintained at prior-year levels, despite stiff Link agreement, the strengthened lapse assumptions, lowered competition.
Lending increased to SEK52.7 billion, up 20% on charges due to market competition, and a change in business 2006, mainly due to good growth in Norway in both mortgage mix in Sweden, particularly since Kapitalpension product tax lending and car financing.
The number of customers increased advantages were removed.
SkandiaBankens operating profit for 2007 was SEK191 million, 31% higher than 2006.
In the medium term, the new business margin is expected to improve to reach the high teens.
This will be achieved through During 2007, SkandiaBanken started a major shift in strategic continued growth in sales leading to economies of scale, product direction to focus on a broader range of long-term savings and development and the introduction of a new more cost-efficient client offerings.
In October we announced the sale of IT platform and other expense-led initiatives.
During 2007, SkandiaBanken Bilfinans, the vehicle finance business, to DnB investment in IT commenced with the development of the NOR.
The total book profit expected to be realised is SEK1 billion.
new Investment Portfolio system, which enables an enhanced The Danish banking operations were also sold during the third product offering.
quarter of 2007 to strengthen profitability and to bring focus to the remaining businesses.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 34 An award-winning Group ELAM, Austria FONDS Professionell Service Award Category Service Award 3rd Place Group Finance Directors report continued Putting the business on a sound footing for the future There is a growing need for intelligent savings solutions in the Nordic savings market.
With the introduction of a new state The focus during the year was on improving operational efficiency pension PPM in 1999 as a starting point, public social security and marketing activities and these efforts will be continuing in systems are now gradually changing.
The investment programme and restructuring activities trend to reduce the positive tax discrimination of insurances thereby within Nordic reduced IFRS adjusted operating profit for the year reducing the incentive to save through insurance vehicles.
However, we strengthened the savings offering tax incentives have been a critical component in the private during 2007 by widening the fund range of both Skandia AB and product offering.
Transfer rights will be reinstated on the Swedish SkandiaBanken.
The unit-linked products have been improved, market on 1 May 2008, which will also impact the existing with several new product offerings introduced during 2007 and business, both in the private and corporate segment.
Market environment and outlook In 2006 a new ITP agreement was finalised, resulting in a pure tick-the-box solution.
The ITP agreement is a collective agreement The Nordic economic environment was turbulent during the year, for corporate pension savings for white-collar workers and includes with increased inflation rates and a volatile equity market that approximately 700,000 salaried employees within the private delivered a negative performance in 2007.
During the year, interest sector.
Strong focus on price pressure and collectively agreed rates increased, albeit from low levels.
This environment helped solutions from the labour market parties in designing the new increase volumes in the banking business, but at the same time agreement have led to exclusion of all financial advisory services also increased pressure on interest margins.
from external parties such as brokers or other advisers.
Brokers and insurance providers are looking to shift their attention to solutions In future years, the Nordic savings market is likely to be affected outside the collective agreements.
Fierce competition, resulting by a number of legislative changes that will affect tax neutrality from these changes is forcing Swedish brokers to shift their focus between savings with and without an insurance wrapper, transfer to individuals and investment returns.
Brokers will now refocus rights, market competition and collective pensions agreements.
on the individual segment with a more holistic advisory approach The new pensions agreement is likely to bring an increased level and strengthen their presence within small and medium-sized of uncertainty about further development of the corporate segment companies.
To succeed, brokers are demanding improved advisory among brokers, employers and insurance companies.
However, tools, with a core focus on financial allocation and expanded with a full range of product offerings traditional life, unit-linked, investment product ranges from insurance companies.
banking, financial advisory, mutual funds and healthcare Skandia Nordic is well positioned to respond to any changes that Skandia will strengthen its position with a strong investment offering do come about.
aimed at delivering market-leading returns.
These will be offered both with and without an insurance wrapper for individuals through direct, advised external and internal channels.
Within the corporate segment an alternative to the collective agreements targeting corporate clients is key to success.
This offering will consist of life assurance, health insurance and transaction services, among other things.
The increased focus on savings, investment returns and open architecture gives Skandia an excellent opportunity to capitalise further on its banking platform to target the individual market.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 35 Skandia Life Time, Austria Campaign promoting Skandias new flagship product within our unitlinked offering in Austria.
The main characteristic of Skandia Life Time is its flexibility where different elements of the policy can be adapted according to various stages of the customers life.
Individuals in Nordic countries are mature internet users compared Europe and Latin America ELAM to most other European countries.
Since the end of the 1990s, Our Europe and Latin America division ELAM is a high-growth Nordic countries have been at the forefront of internet usage and in business providing market-leading long-term savings products, 2007 the trend was stronger than ever, with the number of both unit-linked and mutual funds, through open-architecture services being placed on the internet increasing.
We continue to implement our strategy as we focus platform will pave the way for Skandia Nordic to offer products with on growing each business to scale and increased profit in the and without an insurance wrapper both direct and to brokers and 13 markets in which we operate.
Our approach is one of strong is thus a key component in Skandia Nordics future success.
local focus, while benefitting from the combined scale of the Old Mutual Group, through cost containment and revenueThe increasing demand for advice and self-directed solutions, enhancing activities.
combined with strong growth in the individual market, are the major business opportunities that Skandia Nordic will focus on Business profile in the coming years.
This approach includes a transition from the ELAM has operations in ten European countries Germany, current position as a product supplier mainly offering insurance Austria, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, France, Poland, Portugal, products to becoming a financial solutions provider.
the Czech Republic and Hungary and three Latin American countries Colombia, Mexico and Chile, while our portfolio also The key focus going forward is building an offering which provides includes two asset management businesses, Palladyne which both end customers and distributors with advisory tools and top operates in the Netherlands and the Middle East and North Africa quality advice, innovative products, top-quartile returns and the regions and Skandia Global Funds which operates in Asia, markets best client service.
There are strong synergies in terms of Latin America and Europe.
scale, brand and cross-selling and administration.
The second half of 2007 marked a watershed for Skandia Nordic, particularly in We are a niche player in the long-term savings market in Sweden, with renewed optimism founded on the appointment these countries and our positioning is based on service levels of a new Chief Executive, Bertie Hult, sales increases, product and innovation.
launches and much improved relations with Skandia Liv, the media and customers.
The entrepreneurial approach and leadership style has seen the business achieve strong growth since start-up in the late 1990s, Risk management with increased momentum over the last four years.
Our businesses Financial market risk are in different phases of maturity, from true start-ups Portugal The unit-linked business model transfers most of the financial and Chile to more mature businesses Germany and Colombia.
market risk to the policyholder and guarantees are low.
However, The management challenges are therefore diverse and reflect the the risks for Skandia consist of lower asset-based fees, lower needs and environments of each business.
retrocessions and lower new sales due to market sentiment.
One way of managing this risk has been the introduction of the new In Europe there is a strong dominance of unit-linked life products commission model that is designed to reward policy persistency.
distributed via IFAs as well as via sales organisations and networks, while in Latin America most of the business is focused on individual and corporate pension savings, distributed via Skandias tied financial planners.
We follow a segmentation approach to distribution, understanding that each of these distribution channels has different needs, objectives and drivers.
Our client base consists largely of mid-to-high income retail clients in various life stages who are saving on a long-term basis.
In addition, we also have a base of corporate clients through our pensions business.
Our aim is to focus continuously on understanding our client base in order to provide products that fit its needs.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 36 An award-winning Group ELAM, Spain Expansions Fund Portfolio competition Category Fund Portfolio Management Award First place in the two categories Aggressive and Conservative Group Finance Directors report continued Unit-linked Funds under management growing significantly Our product offerings include a wide range of funds in various Net client cash flows during the year represented 17% of opening asset classes.
All funds are managed externally, with managers funds under management, or 23% of opening funds under selected and their performance tracked by Skandia, using our 4P management when adjusted for the divestiture of the Spanish Philosophy, Process, People, Performance process.
We provide institutional business, reflecting the continued growth of the asset allocation through our managed funds in line with clients business.
Market movements for ELAM were positive for risk profiles.
the first six months of the year, but experienced a downturn in the second half of the year following market trends across the world, Unit-linked is sold both as regular premium products with optional to end the year broadly flat.
Despite the market volatility created top-ups for example in Austria, Germany and Poland and as by the sub-prime mortgage crisis and credit crunch, as well as the single premium products for example in France and Italy, based closure of the Spanish institutional asset management business on demand factors.
Regular premium products create a steady flow which resulted in a 0.6 billion reduction in net client cash flows of lower-value premium amounts with a high embedded value, against 2006, funds under management increased 20% from while single premium products create larger, albeit more volatile, the start of the year as a result of strong inflows.
Continuing growth in life sales APE Mutual funds 2007 was generally a tougher year for sales than 2006 in the The mutual funds business is similar in approach to the unitmajority of the ELAM countries.
In many of the markets, unitlinked business, with product development undertaken Skandia linked sales slowed down, recording negative net cash flows, and and fund management occurring externally.
The mutual funds the tax-driven incentives which positively impacted some of the business includes long-term pension business, which is similar markets in 2006 were not repeated in 2007.
Life sales on an APE to unit-linked in principle, but without an insurance wrapper.
basis rose 10% over the prior year, with strong growth in regular In addition, we offer medium-term savings products to complement premium sales in Central Europe, partially offset by lower single the offering.
premium sales in Southern Europe.
Overall, we are satisfied with the progress that the business made in the ELAM territories, with Performance during 2007 increased market share evident in the majority of instances.
1 Pro forma Mutual fund sales up strongly and margins improved Highlights m 2007 2006 % change Mutual fund sales were up 40% over 2006, with strong IFRS adjusted operating profit pre-tax 43 42 2% contributions from our discretionary asset manager, Skandia EV adjusted operating profit Global Funds, and from Palladyne.
Our Latin American pensions covered business pre-tax 48 121 60% business performed well, supplemented by strong institutional Life assurance sales APE 276 252 10% inflows.
Average margins on mutual fund business improved as Mutual fund sales 3,071 2,188 40% funds placed in the low-margin institutional asset management Value of new business post-tax 54 52 4% business in Spain were replaced by funds in the higher margin New business margin post-tax 20% 21% discretionary asset management and long-term businesses.
This Present value of new business premiums 2,139 2,062 4% led to a significantly improved adjusted operating result for the Net client cash flows bn 1.8 1.7 6% mutual fund portion of the business.
Funds under management bn 13.0 10.8 20% Value of new business increasing with profit margins 1 The 2006 numbers are restated on a pro-forma basis assuming ownership for 12 months and exclude the Skandia Vida business sold in 2007, except EV exceeding the target range at 20% adjusted operating profit, which includes Vida.
The value of new business for the year was up slightly against the prior year.
The post-tax new business margin of 20% achieved for the year exceeded the medium-term target range of 16-18%.
During 2007, we reduced our margins on key products to maintain our competitive position and we expect that pricing pressure will continue in the future.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 37 Skandia Green, Colombia This internal advert to our tied sales force relates to the launch of the innovative investment product Skandia Green in Colombia.
It encourages the sales force to bring their clients to the Skandia Green Lounge in Skandias office in Bogot in order to present them the new product in an exclusive and green environment.
Continued strong underlying adjusted operating profit result The last 12 months have seen significant market volatility with falls in the first, third and fourth quarters of 2007, interspersed IFRS adjusted operating profit was in line with 2006, with the with upward creep.
Impacts to the US and global economy are results for 2007 being constrained by costs of 7 million that were likely to continue to cause uncertainty among investors.
Growth was driven by the larger in-force book of business and by healthy net client cash flows.
As far as distribution is concerned, the European IFA market As a consequence, fund-based fees were up on the prior year, continues to increase in relative importance, generally at the while premium-based fees were at approximately the same level.
expense of tied sales forces.
Proof of our business model is seen through traditional life insurance providers increasing focus on Poland has grown strongly over the last 18 months and was a  offerings.
significant contributor to both new sales and ELAMs overall result.
This reflects the efforts put into this business over recent years, We continue to work on increasing transparency for customers, with particular emphasis on growing distribution.
In our Italian while implementing updated regulatory requirements as they are business, we renegotiated commercial terms with key distributor introduced, such as the Insurance Contract Law in Germany and groups in order to secure the business model for the future.
the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive throughout Europe.
Colombia performed well in very difficult market conditions, growing market share considerably, while new business sales ELAM continues to be well placed to achieve further growth, in Mexico increased markedly on the back of an increase in the as evidenced by rising market shares in most of the countries in financial planner distribution force.
Product development and innovation remain at the heart of our offering, with close to 40 new products and EV adjusted operating profit impacted by assumption changes product enhancements launched during 2007.
Early indications EV adjusted operating profit was impacted by three main items are that innovative major new product launches in Austria and during the year.
Firstly, net unfavourable assumption changes of Switzerland have been well received in their local markets.
As reported during the year, we reassessed the operating assumptions in Italy, in particular the Our positioning of , open-architecture surrender assumptions, following unexpected surrender experience provider in the long-term savings market remains valid, with during the first half of the year.
This review resulted in an our chosen market continuing to grow.
This should result in further adjustment to EV adjusted operating profit of 49 million, and positive market development over the medium term.
changes to persistency assumptions in other countries were also undertaken that contributed further to a net unfavourable impact.
In the short term, our outlook remains cautious as the effects Secondly, there were changes to divisional overhead capitalisation of the sub-prime mortgage crisis and the credit crunch plays out during 2007 following the changes made to the operating in the market.
structures within Skandia since the acquisition.
Finally, the current year EV adjusted operating profit result was positively impacted Risk management by changes to the tax rate in Germany.
Financial markets risk The unit-linked and mutual fund business model transfers most Market environment and outlook of the financial market risk and reward to the policyholder.
While In Europe, ageing populations are placing strain on the public this is our favoured model, some guarantees are offered, generally pension system, which provides strong opportunities for personal managed by external providers.
Our risk mainly lies in lower assetlong-term savings.
At the same time, there is a transfer of wealth based fees, lower retrocession and lower new sales or surrenders to the next generation that creates further opportunities as people due to market sentiment.
ELAM's response to this risk lies in have surplus funds to invest.
While market and government offering innovative and flexible products as well as investment pension reforms are increasing the need for private savings, there options and asset allocation tools, to suit different demand are strong indications that tax benefits associated with long-term patterns, thereby ensuring lower volatility in revenue streams.
savings will decrease over time.
The Latin American economies continue to grow and the additional personal income that this generates provides a strong opportunity for long-term savings.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 38 An award-winning Group Old Mutual South Africa Sunday Times Top Brands 2007 Category Long-Term Insurance Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued Southern Africa Old Mutual South Africa OMSA Business profile Highlights OMSAs financial services business, comprising life and asset management operations, has at its core one of the largest adviceLaunch of the Masisizane Trust based distribution capabilities in the South African industry.
This uses a combination of tied agents, independent financial advisers, Nedbank financial targets delivered bank broker distribution, corporate advisers and direct distribution Launch of the boutique structure, to ensure that the business is accessible to a full spectrum of potential clients.
OMSAs investment and risk products, as well transition complete as its strong links with other Group companies, position the business to meet a full array of client needs.
The business is supported by strong branding and a proven reputation for providing competitive long-term returns to customers.
The Old Mutual brand enjoys a very high level of awareness, trust and loyalty among South African consumers across all market segments.
Historically the most powerful life assurance brand in the country, it is now increasingly perceived as a leading savings and investment brand.
The breadth of this business, incorporating life, health and disability assurance, and investment and asset management in the retail, corporate and institutional markets, positions us well to extract value from our large number of well established client relationships in these sectors.
Through the productive and growing tied distribution force in the high-, middleand low-income markets, as well as through its relationships with independent brokers, OMSA is well positioned for future growth.
Retail business Funds under management Our Retail business covers both the Affluent Market and the Mass Market formerly Group Schemes, offering life, disability and health insurance, retirement annuities, savings and investment 41.7bn products.
We distribute our products through independent brokers IFAs, bank brokers, tied distribution personal financial advisers for the Retail Affluent segment and salaried sales force for the Funds under management Retail Mass segment, a direct distribution channel, bank brokers as percentage of Group and other retail partnerships.
Our distribution through bank financial advisers and staff within Nedbank constitutes an important channel.
15 % Our key Retail product offerings include Greenlight, a flexible and comprehensive range of life, disability, and future-needs cover.
Flexible healthcare schemes for individuals are offered under the Growth in funds under Oxygen brand.
A range of retirement savings plans, annuities, management investment and income products are provided through different wrappers which include the Max, Investments Frontiers and Galaxy product ranges.
Our customers in the Mass segment are 4% offered savings, retirement and funeral cover products.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 39 Old Mutual South Africa OMSA launched its new brand line Invest in your success reflecting the fundamental change in strategy and philosophy implemented by the business over the past few years.
In line with international trends and the need to ensure products The investment boutiques provide a range of investment are appropriate for todays environment, a key feature of more capabilities designed to meet the various needs of customers.
recent investment and savings products is significantly lower charges and capital requirements and increased flexibility.
They include: Our investment offering is open-architecture, but Old Mutual a number of specialist equity and fixed-interest boutiques: managed funds form a large part of the underlying assets an index-tracker capability in Umbono Fund Managers: managed on behalf of retail customers.
a multi-manager capability through SYmmETRY, which creates portfolios for institutional investors blending best of breed asset Corporate business managers across multiple asset classes, using sophisticated portfolio construction methods.
The portfolios aim to maximise Our Corporate business sells investment, retirement, insurance returns while controlling risk and diversifying managers: and structured products, and advisory services to corporate, Old Mutual Property Group, which provides property institutional and parastatal customers.
Under a life wrapper, we management and property-related asset management services provide underwritten investment products for retirement funds, and within OMSA: and group life and disability insurance to retirement funds established Old Mutual Specialised Finance OMSFIN, which is active by employers for the benefit of their employees and by trade unions in corporate advisory, corporate lending, securities lending for the benefit of their members.
Group assurance products provide life cover to employees in the Client service event of death, funeral cover and funeral support services and a full range of disability solutions.
We run a single back office to provide technology, administration and client service to all market segments.
We continue to Investment products are customised depending on the investors drive costs lower and service levels higher as we adopt LEAN requirements.
These include smoothed bonus portfolios, absolute manufacturing approaches to process re-engineering and exploit return portfolios, structured solutions and annuity products, as well technology.
Unit costs are being driven lower in real terms and as third-party asset management.
We offer other multi-managed for the Retail markets are lower than local and international asset management solutions and administer a range of retirement benchmarks.
Corporate unit costs are also being driven down schemes for corporates and umbrella arrangements.
Many of these aggressively in anticipation of future retirement fund reform schemes are defined contribution and open architecture.
An increasing number of clients and most intermediaries are being serviced via the internet and call centres, Asset management although we have maintained a large national branch network.
In response to the changing factors driving investment success Corporate Citizenship worldwide, and in particular the demand for core and specialist asset management capabilities, Old Mutual Asset Managers Old Mutual has reported its triple bottom line in South Africa South Africa was restructured in January 2007 into a new through its Corporate Citizenship Report since 2001.
In 2007, our multi-boutique model under the renamed Old Mutual Investment social investment programme was boosted significantly by the Group South Africa OMIGSA.
This follows the success of the launch of a number of new initiatives aimed at supporting small same model in Old Mutuals US Asset Management business.
and medium enterprises, and delivery of infrastructure.
We believe this will assist us in delivering improved investment performance to customers and in gathering assets.
In addition, links to Group businesses outside South Africa enable OMIGSA to offer international investment services to the corporate and institutional markets.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 40 An award-winning Group Old Mutual South Africa Alexander Forbes Asset Consultants Multi-manager survey Category SYmmETRY produced the best returns in all the equity brands in which it competed over three years in the fixed asset allocation category Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued Performance during 2007 Life sales on an APE basis increased by 6% over 2006.
Recurring premium sales grew strongly, up 14% on the back of an increased sales force in the Retail Mass Market business as Highlights Rm 2007 2006 % change well as competitive risk product and credit life sales in the Retail Long-term business adjusted Affluent market.
Life single premium sales were down 7% on 2006 operating profit 3,082 3,077 primarily due to competitor margin pressure, and also, because Asset management adjusted we had a significant deal in our SYmmETRY multi-manager operating profit 946 874 8% business at the end of 2006 which was non-recurring.
The launch Long-term investment return LTIR 2,988 1,773 69% of the Absolute Return Fund and enhancements to the fixed bond IFRS adjusted operating profit 7,016 5,724 23% rates on the lnvestment Frontiers product at mid-year helped improve sales in the second half of the year.
We continued to gain Return on Allocated Capital 24% 23% market share in the Life retail sector.
EV adjusted operating profit covered business 4,769 5,752 17% Unit trust sales were up after including sales through Marriott EV covered business 34,678 33,274 4% Income Specialists Marriott for the full year in 2007.
Excluding Return on EV covered business 11.2% 13.5% Marriott, sales were down 10% on 2006 because of residual Life assurance sales APE 4,699 4,416 6% concerns over portfolio manager changes and short-term Unit trust sales 15,547 14,833 5% investment performance on certain core funds Dynamic Floor Value of new business post-tax 756 781 3% and Enhanced Income Funds.
The new Stable Growth Fund APE margin post-tax 16% 18% was launched in July 2007 and has had good early sales.
Present value of new business premiums 31,380 30,004 5% Net client cash flows Rbn 18.7 29.1 36% IFRS adjusted operating profit was 23% higher than in 2006.
SA client funds under Within this result, our long-term business adjusted operating profit management Rbn 445 424 5% increased marginally and the LTIR increased 69% after changes in calculation method to recognise the value of the shareholders OMSA net client cash flows remained a challenge in 2007, funds and the higher asset base more appropriately.
The marginal primarily due to net outflows from institutional clients, notably from increase in long-term business profit was a result of a continued two multi-managers, following changes of portfolio managers and switch to less capital-intensive, lower margin products.
Positive concerns about short-term performance in 2006.
Inflows were contributions arose from an increase in the average level of lower as consultants and investors adopted a wait and see policyholders funds under management, driven by higher market approach because of uncertainty over the implications of the new levels and a significantly lower IFRS 2 share-based payments boutique structure on performance.
These were offset by an increase in the investment 2007 remained disappointing, with figures for the year showing guarantee reserve, which resulted from the adoption of a market- 24% of funds outperforming benchmarks and achievement of consistent basis for the valuation of these reserves as well as the the positions four and six in the Alexander Forbes Large Manager application of a discretionary margin.
Watch over one and three years respectively.
We deliberately took defensive positions in most portfolios in 2007 anticipating Asset management adjusted operating profit was up 8% due to a market correction and this cost us performance for the year.
The good returns achieved also led to a good flow of performance-related fees, and higher property profits after the first full-year contribution from Marriott.
However, the profit growth was tempered by additional advertising costs associated with the launch of the new boutique structure in OMIGSA, a review of incentive levels for fund managers and loss of fee income as a result of the withdrawal of client funds.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 41 Old Mutual South Africa Arelia, a client story that was used as part of the OMSAs Invest in your success campaign.
Arelia used her policy to invest in her business.
We declared strong bonuses in February 2008 on many of our In 2007, we continued innovating and delivering financial solutions with-profits products in spite of market volatility in early 2008. relevant to our customers.
In October we launched the Domestic This reflects the good returns these products have generated.
Workers Fund, in collaboration with the Presidential Working Group Our portfolios bonus smoothing accounts remain in very strong on Women, a fund targeted at extending retirement provisioning positions following these strong bonus declarations.
and risk benefits for domestic workers.
In November we launched Pay-When-You-Can, an innovative flexible premium funeral product Embedded Value EV was impacted by net capital transfers to for the entry-level market, in Shoprite stores nationwide.
In December Old Mutual plc of R5.9 billion during the year.
Excluding these we launched Zimele-compliant funeral plans contributing to capital transfers, EV increased by 22% over the year and was Financial Sector Charter scores, which also address the need for positively impacted by market levels.
However, the EV adjusted affordable products for the previously untapped entry-level market.
operating profit is lower than in 2006 because the prior year profit was boosted by the recalibration of the risk margin in the discount Retail Affluent rate of R1,093 million R711 million post-tax, while the 2007 profit was reduced by a substantial increase in the investment Rm 2007 2006 % change guarantee reserve to reflect the use of a market-consistent Life sales APE methodology, the switch to lower margin business of certain liabilities Savings 1,321 1,278 3% which has resulted in lower capital requirements and improved Protection 1,056 897 18% ROC, and the reduction of certain margins in the Corporate Annuity 197 193 2% segment aimed at providing better value for our customers.
Total 2,574 2,368 9% Retail Mass Market Life sales APE Single 868 838 4% Rm 2007 2006 % change Recurring 1,706 1,530 12% 1 Life sales APE Non-life sales 1,821 1,949 7% Savings 613 476 29% Life VNB 330 289 14% Protection 477 411 16% Life APE margin post-tax 13% 12% Net client cash flow Rbn 2.7 0.9 Total 1,090 887 23% Life VNB 322 263 22% 1 Includes non-life flows in respect of OMUT, Galaxy and Linked Investment Service Provider LISP sales on an APE basis.
Life APE margin post-tax 30% 30% Net client cash flow Rbn 1.9 1.7 12% Life recurring premium sales were 11% higher than for the prior year, driven by continued good sales of risk business, leveraged from Retail Mass Market sales were up 23% on 2006.
This result enhancements to our Greenlight risk product range 17% higher reflects the continued focus on growing the sales force, which and good credit life sales 26% higher, reflecting the extension at 31 December 2007 was 11% higher than at the beginning of of personal credit through Nedbank.
Excellent growth was also achieved in sales through the Max Investment savings business both life and non-life wrappers broker channel, which were up 106% on the prior year.
There was, performed well, ending the year up 17% with significant growth however, a small swing to lower-margin savings business.
62% in the non-life recurring option, but from a relatively low base.
VNB was 22% higher than 2006, with the new business APE margin constant at 30%, the latter benefitting from improved burial society results and a lower secondary tax on companies offset by an increase in the proportion of low-margin savings business.
We responded to the shift in mix and the lower margins on savings business following the Statement of Intent, which sets minimum standards for surrender and paid-up values, by implementing changes to adviser remuneration and increasing minimum premiums for savings business.
This had a negligible impact on mix, but did improve the profitability of the savings business slightly.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 42 An award-winning Group Old Mutual Investment Group Property Investments OMIGPI Golden Arrow Awards 2007 Category Professional Management Review Award Best Shopping Centre 2007 Group Finance Directors report continued Single premium life sales were 4% up on 2006.
Single premium Net client cash flows in the Corporate market, although still investment sales were flat as a result of perceptions about OMIGSA strongly negative, were less severe than in 2006, and Employee restructuring, key staff losses and OMIGSA investment performance Benefits net client cash flow was significantly better than in 2006. in some of the flagship funds, principally our Dynamic Floor and Termination experience, in particular, was very good and the Enhanced Income funds.
These effects were offset by improved impacts of the launch of the Absolute Growth Portfolios, as well investment performance, the new Absolute Return Fund launch as strong bonuses, were factors in this regard.
Net client cash flows and enhancements to the fixed bond rates of the life product.
In the at OMIGSA were adversely affected by withdrawals following the last quarter there were large non-recurring inflows into the private loss of two key portfolio managers, clients switching from core equity fund of Investment Frontiers.
Single premium sales of the and balanced mandates and residual concerns about short-term offshore investment product through Old Mutual International performance in 2006. continued to accelerate and were 56% up over 2006.
Total Corporate sales were lower than in 2006, driven by lower Life VNB was 14% higher than 2006, with the new business sales of SYmmETRY which had a very large deal in 2006, APE margin improving from 12% to 13%.
The biggest driver of the Annuities and Healthcare.
There was strong performance in the improvement was the impact of increased volumes, particularly on second half of 2007 in the Guaranteed Products, where the launch the recurring premium book on the absorption of initial distribution of the Absolute Growth Portfolios was successful and has started costs, both at a product level and in the distribution channels.
to attract good new sales.
Risk sales were also strong in 2007 compared to the prior year.
Although Annuity sales were lower than Bancassurance sales through Nedbank continued to grow and were in 2006, the pipeline for 2008 is strong and business was secured up 16% over 2006.
The launch of a new, low cost, simple savings at the end of 2007 that should flow through in 2008. product through Nedbank branches was very well received.
Credit life sales slowed following the introduction of the National Credit Healthcare sales were below 2006 due to a declining market, with Act, but were offset by the new savings and risk product flows.
government employees moving to GEMS, and a somewhat reduced focus on Oxygen within the distribution channels.
Appointments Corporate Segment have been made to drive the distribution of Healthcare more effectively, especially in the Retail distribution channels.
Rm 2007 2006 % change Life sales APE The decrease in new business margins and VNB relative to 2006 Savings 597 629 5% was mainly a result of a reduction in the Platinum Pensions 2003 Protection 145 99 46% capital charge which was made so as to offer better value to Annuity 111 193 42% customers and drive future sales, as well as lower volumes of highHealthcare 183 239 23% margin annuity business towards smoothed bonus products.
Lower sales volume in SYmmETRY and Healthcare also contributed.
This Total 1,036 1,160 11% had a knock-on effect, reducing the overall life new business margin.
Life sales APE Single 644 788 18% Recurring 392 372 5% 2 Non-life sales 755 1,678 55% Life VNB 104 229 55% APE margin post-tax 10% 20% 3 Net client cash flows Rbn 17.9 31.7 44% 2 Includes non-life sales in respect of OMIGSA and Old Mutual Properties on an APE basis.
3 Includes net client cash flows for OMIGSA.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 43 Research Old Mutual Investment Group South Africas advertising campaign was designed to communicate its philosophy of Performance through Focus.
Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa OMIGSA In 2007, half of the key unit trust funds, representing 69% of unit trust assets, were first and second quartile performers over one year, 69% were first and second quartile over three years and Sources of FUM Rbn 2007 2006 % change 64% over five years to the end of December 2007.
Life 319 283 13% Unit trusts 48 40 20% The boutiques with the most notable performance for the three Third party 88 95 7% years ending 2007 were the Absolute Return, Macro Strategy Total OMIGSA managed assets 455 418 9% Investments, Fixed Income and Select Equity boutiques, with 100%, 99%, 95% and 76% respectively of their funds under Managed by external fund managers 34 30 13% management beating their benchmarks.
Total OMSA FUM 489 448 9% During the year, Marriott Income Specialists launched the Marriott Less: managed by Group companies International Income Growth Fund, OMIGSA Property launched for OMSA 44 24 83% Triangle, an industry-defining direct property fund, Umbono Fund Total OMSA client funds managed in SA 445 424 5% Managers launched the RAFI 40 Index Fund and OMUT launched its Stable Growth Funds.
The implementation of the boutique structure in OMIGSA was a key Market environment and outlook feature of 2007.
We continue to focus on stabilising the structure Despite recent inflationary pressures, a tightening of monetary and increasing investors confidence in individual boutique policy and the current electricity shortage, the South African investment philosophies.
economy remains robust, with prudent fiscal management and investment in infrastructure ensuring a continuation of the growth Non-life sales OMIGSA were significantly lower than the prior year experienced in the past few years.
This economic growth continues as a result of the non-repetition of two very large deals in the first to drive demand for financial products, particularly those with half of 2006 R11.1 billion, and the smaller pipeline at the start exposure to the market rather than traditional smoothed bonus of 2007.
The investor and consultant concerns relating to OMIGSAs investments.
However, the overall savings rate in South Africa restructuring into a multi-boutique business and some areas of remains low, with an increasing proportion of savings being investment performance also contributed to lower sales.
These have, channelled into non-financial investment vehicles such as however, started to improve.
This increases the competitive pressures between market participants.
2007 ended on a highly volatile note as the unravelling global sub-prime crisis dented investor confidence and global financial The distribution of economic growth is also fuelling growth in the markets.
Against this uncertain backdrop, the investment emerging middle and lower income market segments.
OMSA performance across our different boutiques was satisfactory.
continues to focus on improving the value offered to customers Although three-year performance slipped as poorer short-term and the overall customer experience to meet the needs of these equity performance fed through to the longer-term performance emerging segments.
Its market-leading position in the middle numbers, we had anticipated a market correction and generally the and lower income market through its Retail Mass Market division portfolios were defensively positioned.
Overall, just over half of the makes it well placed to grow in this market segment.
funds outperformed their benchmarks over one and three years respectively to the end of December.
For the peer cognisant OMSA is also working proactively with intermediaries to help institutional funds, 45% and 9% of mandates were above the transition them through the significant changes in commission industry median over one and three years respectively.
More than regulations expected to come into effect during 2008. half of institutional mandates outperformed their benchmarks over these same periods.
The Macro Strategy Investments boutiques Profile Balanced Fund was ranked fourth over one year, sixth over three years and third over five years ended 31 December 2007 in the Alexander Forbes Global Large Manager Watch survey.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 44 An award-winning Group Nedbank Banking Awards Category Emerging Markets Corporate Social Responsibility Bank of the Year Award Winner Group Finance Directors report continued The long-term outlook for savings and wealth management The potential impact of HIV AIDS is well managed in respect of in South Africa remains positive, with the following points as lives assured, as demonstrated by the positive mortality experience key contributors: variances that have been achieved as a consequence of prudent risk selection and product pricing.
This is despite the high prudent fiscal and monetary policy is expected to return the prevalence of infection within the general population.
The business economy to a robust growth path in the latter half of 2008: conducts HIV and other tests for voluntary cover above certain continued growth of black middle class and affluent markets levels and, where there is no testing, generally has the ability arising from a growing economy and Black Economic to reprice regularly should experience be different to assumptions.
Empowerment efforts: Based on the models currently in use, calibrated against Government is formulating policy that would create a framework observed experience, it is believed that the prevalence of infection for mandatory retirement savings: has peaked.
strong growth in household incomes, enabling more people to start or increase savings for retirement: In line with other life assurers, OMSA manages underwriting risk improvements in financial education and transparency of through strictly controlled underwriting principles governing financial products enhancing accessibility.
product-pricing procedures, which take appropriate account of actual and prospective mortality, morbidity and expense experience.
In the short term, a slowdown in growth rates of both the economy and disposable incomes is expected as monetary policy is Certain products are underpinned by minimum guaranteed tightened to contain inflationary pressures and as global economic investment returns.
Guaranteed annuity options were also growth slows.
Increased competition is expected for the flows into previously offered on a book that is now closed to new business.
the market, and also for existing assets, especially for retirement The cost of minimum investment guarantees increases when annuities that have been transferable between funds from October investment markets decline, while the cost of guaranteed annuity 2007.
In this environment distribution, superior investment options increases with declining interest rates.
The risks posed by performance and coverage of all asset classes will be crucial for these guarantees are regularly quantified using appropriate success.
Old Mutual is well placed to compete in this environment actuarial models calibrated to market-derived assumptions.
We with our investment boutiques continuing to grow and the coverage have quantified the cost of minimum investment guarantees and of asset classes increasing, and we have the ability to leverage guaranteed annuity options and have established adequate our large distribution network to deliver financial solutions to reserves to cover the expected cost in full.
We are still evaluating our advantage.
the optimal asset allocation strategy for the assets backing this reserve, given that there are few financial instruments that provide Risk management a perfect hedge.
Life Assurance In respect of fixed annuities, market risks are managed by holding OMSAs overriding business objective is to create long-term assets with appropriate duration and convexity to match liabilities customer and shareholder value.
The business is actively focused to the fullest extent possible.
Market risks on policies where on enterprise-wide risk management to take on agreed levels the terms and conditions are guaranteed in advance and the of risk and to mitigate risk outside agreed limits wherever possible.
investment risk is carried by the shareholders principally reside in the guaranteed non-profit annuity book.
Other non-profit policies OMSA operates a risk management framework that contains are also suitably matched through specific investment mandates.
a robust risk governance structure, group-wide risk policies and Market risks on with-profit policies, where investment risk is methodologies that focus on identification, assessment, response, shared, are managed by appropriate investment mandates and action and control plans, and the monitoring and reporting of risks.
Equity price risk and interest rate risk on the value of securities are modelled in line with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 45 Nedbank Foundation As part of the repositioning of Nedbanks brand, a campaign was run to draw attention to the valuable work done by the Nedbank Foundation with funds sourced from Nedbanks Affinity Programmes.
Credit risk is monitored across OMSAs activities by the OMSA as through branches and representative offices in London and Credit Committee, which has established appropriate exposure in the Isle of Man, to meet the international banking requirements limits to individual issuers and within various segments of Nedbank Groups South African-based multinational and of the business.
OMSAs full-time agents also distribute certain Nedbank products.
Asset management The revenue of OMIGSAs asset management businesses varies Nedbank Corporate proportionally to fluctuations in values of the assets managed Nedbank Corporate comprises the client-focused businesses of on behalf of clients both in-house and third-party.
This is Business Banking, Corporate Banking, Property Finance, Nedbank accentuated where performance fees apply if minimum Africa and the specialist businesses of Transactional Banking and performance hurdles are not met.
Investment risk is borne by Corporate Shared Services.
These businesses focus mainly on clients, due to the agency nature of the business.
Compliance providing lending, deposit-taking and transactional banking risks faced by these businesses are monitored and reviewed by execution services to the wholesale banking client base of Nedbank.
compliance and risk committees established for this purpose.
The risk of loss of key employees is managed by the use of appropriate Nedbank Corporate has a strong client base and is well placed to remuneration policies including long-term incentive schemes grow and optimise business opportunities, both internally through aligned with shareholder value targets, and by competition cross-selling services offered by other divisions of Nedbank as well restrictions in employment agreements.
as the wider Old Mutual Group, and externally in the private and public sector markets.
Nedbank Group Banking Business profile Nedbank Capital Nedbank Capital is Nedbank Groups investment banking Nedbank Group Limited, which is 53% owned by the Group, is business.
It consists of a number of divisions that together manage a bank holding company that is one of the four largest banking structuring, lending, underwriting, corporate finance, private equity groups in South Africa.
It operates through its principal banking and trading operations.
It provides a full product spectrum in the subsidiaries, Nedbank Limited wholly-owned and Imperial Bank South African market, with an offering that stretches from equity Limited, in which Nedbank Group Limited has a 50.1% interest.
research to long-term project financing, enabling Nedbank Capital Nedbank Group Limiteds shares are publicly listed on the JSE.
to compete effectively in the southern African market and in niche areas of specialisation throughout Africa.
The division seeks to Nedbank Group offers a wide range of wholesale and retail banking provide seamless specialist advice, debt and equity raising and services through three main business clusters: Nedbank Corporate, execution and trading capability in all the major South African Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Retail, as well as Imperial Bank, business sectors.
Principal clients include a significant number of a joint venture with Imperial Holdings.
Nedbank Group focuses the top 200 domestic corporates, as well as parastatals, leading on operating in southern Africa, with Nedbank positioned to financial institutions, non-South African multinational corporates be a bank for all both from a retail and a wholesale banking and clients undertaking major infrastructure and mining projects perspective.
The principal services offered by Nedbank are in Africa, and emerging BEE consortia.
corporate and retail banking, property finance, investment banking, private banking, foreign exchange and securities trading.
Nedbank Nedbank Retail Group also generates income from private equity, credit card Nedbank Retail serves the financial needs of individuals and acquiring and processing services, custodial services, collective small businesses by providing transactional, credit card, lending, investments, trust administration, asset management services investment and insurance products and services.
services the needs of clients grouped into five primary client segments, being high net worth, affluent, middle, mass and Nedbank Groups head office is in Sandton, Johannesburg, with small business.
large operational centres in Durban and Cape Town.
These are complemented by an extensive branch and support network The division is further organised around the following key product throughout South Africa and facilities in Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, areas: card, home loans, personal loans, bancassurance and Swaziland and Zimbabwe.
These facilities are operated through wealth, vehicle and asset-based finance and transactional banking.
Nedbank Groups eight subsidiary or affiliated banks, as well Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 46 An award-winning Group Nedbank 2007 Financial Times Sustainable Banking Awards Category Emerging Markets Award Regional Emerging Market Sustainable Bank of the Year Mid-East and Africa Group Finance Directors report continued The Shared Services Division provides support services including Net interest income NII human resources, finance, projects, strategic planning and product NII grew 29% to R14,146 million 2006: R10,963 million and client analytics.
Retail Risk is responsible for the monitoring of due to strong growth in average interest-earning banking assets compliance, credit and operational risk and providing legal services of 29%.
Retail marketing provides marketing support to the business divisions and assists in co-ordinating marketing activities Nedbanks net interest margin for the year was 3.94%, unchanged across the broader Nedbank Group.
The margin benefitted from the endowment impact of interest rate increases on capital and current and savings accounts Imperial Bank of 0.4%, and decreased from liability margin compression of 0.1% Imperial Bank Limited is an independently regulated bank, of as deposit interest rates continued to price in upside risk and as which Nedbank owns 50.1%, with the remainder held by Imperial the sector had to source a higher proportion of funding from the Bank Holdings Limited.
Imperial Bank focuses mostly on motor wholesale deposit market.
In addition, the NII margin decreased vehicle finance.
In addition, it also offers property, medical and from asset margin compression of 0.3% mainly as a result of aviation finance.
strategic changes in the product mix of personal loans and competitive pricing behaviour particularly in home loans and Performance during 2007 commercial mortgages.
2007 financial targets achieved Impairments charge on loans and advances Highlights Rm 2007 2006 % change The credit loss ratio increased from 0.52% in 2006 to 0.62% in IFRS adjusted operating profit 9,220 6,973 32% 2007.
The growth in advances and the increase in the credit loss 1 Headline earnings 5,921 4,435 34% ratio are reflected in a 46% increase in the impairments charge to 1 Net interest income 14,146 10,963 29% R2,164 million.
Impairment levels have risen in Nedbank Retail and 1 Non-interest revenue 10,445 9,468 10% Imperial Bank, while the credit loss ratios in Nedbank Capital and 1 Net interest margin 3.94% 3.94% Nedbank Corporate have remained at lower than expected levels, 1 Cost to income ratio 54.9% 58.2% assisted by active credit management and unusually high levels 1 RoE 21.4% 18.6% of recoveries.
The effect of the deteriorating retail environment has 1 RoE excluding goodwill 24.8% 22.1% been mitigated to some extent through tighter credit policies and an early focus on collection processes and systems.
Nedbank has 1 As reported by Nedbank.
continued to apply stringent credit management policies and has tightened credit-granting requirements in the retail areas most We are pleased with the balance we have achieved between affected by the worsening credit cycle over the last two years.
delivering on our short-term performance targets and investing to build a platform for long-term growth.
Although the financial Nedbank has no direct exposure to US sub-prime mortgages.
performance is now benchmarking closer to that of Nedbanks The group is indirectly exposed in that it does have some banking peers, we aspire to improve further.
relationships with institutions with sub-prime exposure.
These are relatively small and are not currently expected to lead to any losses Headline earnings increased by 34% to R5,921 million.
Basic in the Nedbank Group.
earnings grew by 33% to R6,025 million.
Nedbank Retail raised an additional Incurred But Not Reported Nedbank Groups headline earnings per share EPS increased by IBNR provision of R167 million in December 2007 to anticipate 34% to 1,485 cents 2006: 1,110 cents.
Diluted headline EPS the effect of the current higher interest rates not yet evident in the increased by 33% from 1,076 cents to 1,429 cents.
Basic EPS historic data used for provisioning calculations.
Nedbank Groups return on average ordinary shareholders equity RoE improved from 18.6% to 21.4% for the year, exceeding the target of 20% that was set in 2004 at the start of its recovery programme.
RoE, excluding goodwill, improved from 22.1% to 24.8%.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 47 Nedbank The repositioning of the Nedbank brand.
The key message of this campaign is personal achievement by banking with Nedbank.
Non-interest revenue NIR to a reduction in international liquidity, which has traditionally not been a large portion of the funding base, and an increase in the NIR for the year increased by 10% to R10,445 million.
cost of capital market debt.
This has had a small negative impact on the cost of rolling over conduit paper and new subordinatedThis growth in NIR was driven primarily by commission and debt issues.
fee income growth of 15% and an increase in private equity revaluations, realisations and dividend income.
During 2007 Nedbank successfully launched its inaugural auto loans and residential mortgage-backed securitisation This growth was partially offset by weak trading results as reported programmes, raising R1.7 billion and R1.87 billion respectively.
This was mainly due to poor trading within the These programmes have diversified the funding base and added business alliance with Macquarie, the competitive pricing structure tenor to the bank's existing funding profile.
In addition, Nedbank for transactional products adopted in Nedbank Retail, where fees issued a further foreign syndicated loan of $500 million in have been reduced by an average of 19% since mid-2006, February 2007, raising additional foreign funding and creating and a continuing move from cheques to electronic channels by further funding diversification.
Market environment and outlook Expenses The slowdown in consumer spending, the increase in consumer Expenses continue to be tightly managed, increasing by 14% credit stress, continuing electricity shortages and sustained to R13,489 million.
The jaws ratio continued to improve dislocation in credit and equity markets are likely to make the throughout the year, with total revenue growth of 20% being year ahead significantly more challenging for the South African 6% above expense growth of 14%, resulting in the efficiency ratio economy and the banking sector.
Nedbank Groups management currently believes that performance Growth in operating expenses slowed, as anticipated, while staff in 2008 is likely to be influenced by: expenses increased, reflecting the investment Nedbank has made in client-facing staff and an increase in variable pay as a result of growth in retail advances remaining robust, but slowing, the continued improvement in operating performance.
Marketing together with ongoing growth in wholesale advances: costs increased as planned as Nedbank continued to invest in continued market pressure on retail funding volumes: repositioning the Nedbank brand.
an endowment benefit in the margin from historic interest rate increases: Expenses included the costs for the integration of Old Mutual Bank a slight worsening of the impairment charge following signs into Nedbank, Bond Choices expenses and the IFRS 2 charge in of increased levels of credit stress in parts of the retail respect of Nedbank Groups BEE transactions.
environment, together with fewer impairment recoveries from Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Corporate: Advances and deposits continuing effects of the Nedbank Retail price reductions During 2007 advances grew 21% to R374 billion, with average and industry fee pressure: interest-earning banking assets increasing by 29% to R359 billion.
pressure on revenues and costs associated with the introduction of the National Credit Act: As a result of the strong advances growth, total assets increased momentum from transactional banking mandates received 15% to R489 billion.
Growth in higher risk areas, such as personal by Nedbank Corporate and a strong pipeline built up by loans, slowed as the group tightened credit criteria and focused on Nedbank Capital: higher quality, lower margin personal loans.
Deposits increased by lower positive property private equity revaluations: 18% from December 2006 to R385 billion at December 2007. additional operating efficiencies: investment in retail distribution and continued marketing Nedbanks liquidity remains sound in an overall liquidity spend on the new brand position: environment that was made more challenging by negative finalisation of Basel II: and international liquidity developments.
Contagion of South African asset securitisation and continuing capital management activities.
markets has been limited, with little direct exposure by local banks to the US sub-prime markets.
The primary impact has been limited Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 48 An award-winning Group Nedbank Cannes Lions International Advertising Awards Category Inspiring Ambient Advertising Award Outdoor Grand Prix Winner Group Finance Directors report continued While the general banking environment will be much tougher than During the year Nedbank continued to actively manage its capital: in previous years, Nedbank is confident of continuing to improve its performance based on the solid platform built over the past four the expensive NED2 R4 billion bond was redeemed on years.
Nedbanks focus is now on working towards its vision of its call date in July 2007: becoming southern Africas most highly rated and respected bank.
several Tier 2 subordinated-debt issues totalling R6.77 billion were executed, thereby continuing to build a smooth and The main focus areas for Nedbank in 2008 include building on its diversified subordinated debt maturity profile.
A highlight of this transformation journey, and growing its retail distribution network, was a R2 billion inaugural Tier 2 investment in a South African transactional banking market share, relevance in the public sector, bank by the International Finance Corporation and the African business banking franchise and mass-market strategy.
Development Bank : a R1.7 billion Imperial Bank asset securitisation and In addition, Nedbank is focused on being involved in social a R1.87 billion Nedbank Retail home loan securitisation were and community projects, managing the credit cycle, disciplined completed: and expense management, ongoing capital management activities, R364 million of Tier 1 perpetual preference shares were issued.
continuous improvement in all operations and applying economicvalue-based management.
From 2008 economic profit EP Certain hybrid capital instruments now qualify as Tier 1 regulatory replaces RoE as the primary internal financial performance capital under Basel II and Nedbank is well advanced in planning its inaugural hybrid Tier 1 issue.
measure in the Nedbank Group.
EP is a best-practice measure since it incentivises an appropriate balance between return and Nedbank Group, Nedbank Limited and Imperial Bank Limited all growth, and better aligns with shareholder value creation.
received ratings upgrades from Moodys and Fitch during 2007.
This was very pleasing and recognises the successful turnaround Risk and capital management of Nedbank over the past few years.
Risk management has been a major component of Nedbank Groups transformation over the past few years, using its Nedbank expects to issue further Tier 2 capital and hybrid forms comprehensive Basel II programme as a major catalyst.
A vision of Tier 1 capital in 2008.
Nedbank is committed to improving its to be world-class at managing risk has been engrained in the profile as an issuer in the debt capital markets and this should organisational risk culture of the group together with a clear result in a more robust subordinated debt yield curve.
understanding that Nedbanks core business activities involve taking financial risks and that these and other key risks, for Economic capital example operational risk, must be measured, managed and Economic capital is a scientific, consistent measurement and allows optimised as a core competency.
comparison of risk across business units, risk types and individual products or transactions.
Economic capital is now embedded in Nedbank has successfully implemented its Basel II blueprint.
the management and performance culture of Nedbank Group, and This is in line with the revisions to the South African Banks Act is fundamental in the assessment of risk return at all levels.
and the new  Basel II banking regulations introduced by the South African Reserve Bank SARB, which Nedbanks economic capital framework also satisfies a major were effective from 1 January 2008.
The main purpose of Basel II component of Basel II, namely the requirement for an Internal is to promote significant enhancement and sophistication of risk Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
This involves and capital measurement and management, thereby further the groups ongoing assessment of its internal capital adequacy strengthening the safety and soundness of the banking industry.
Nedbank has received formal approval from SARB for an Advanced In addition to economic capital, Nedbank Group calculates Internal Ratings-Based AIRB approach to credit risk for its regulatory capital requirements developed by the Basel Committee principal operations in South Africa, while Imperial Bank and the on Banking Supervision both under the current Basel I Accord African subsidiaries have adopted the standardised approach.
and the new revised Basel II Accord.
Nedbank Group will always Nedbanks risk and capital management capabilities allow it to aim to hold the greater of regulatory capital and economic capital optimise the risk return trade-offs equation and grow the for capital adequacy purposes, but primarily uses its internal businesses profitably within a clearly established risk appetite.
economic capital assessment for managing the business as this represents a better overall assessment of the true economic risk return relationship.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 49 Nedbank, Power to the People During the year Nedbank unveiled two solar billboards.
The first panel generated electricity for a kitchen at MC Weiler Primary School in Alexandra Township in Gauteng, enabling meals to be cooked for more than 1,400 children every day.
This initiative led to Nedbank winning the Grand Prix Award at the Cannes Advertising Awards.
Key performance indicators After successfully achieving the short-term targets of a 20% RoE and 55% efficiency ratio in 2007, Nedbank Group has set the following key medium-term targets: Performance in 2007 Mediumto long-term financial targets Return on shareholders equity 21.4% RoE greater than 20% and RoE excluding goodwill 24.8% excluding goodwill 10% above Nedbank Groups monthly weighted average cost of ordinary shareholders equity Efficiency ratio 54.9% Maintain an efficiency ratio of less than 55% Fully diluted headline earnings 32.8% growth Growth in fully diluted HEPS of at least average per share HEPS CPIX plus GDP growth plus 5% Impairment charge as a % 0.62% An impairment charge of between 0.55% of average advances and 0.85% of average advances Capital adequacy ratios Basel II 7.9% Tier 1: 8.0% 9.0 % 11.3% Total: 11.0% 12.0% Economic capital adequacy AAdequately capitalised to a 99.9% Aconfidence on an economic capital basis plus a 15% buffer Dividend cover 2.25 times 2.25 to 2.75 times cover In the medium term Nedbank aims to meet or exceed the Nedbank Groups board approves a comprehensive Strategic comparable performance of its peers.
Capital Plan, which is driven by and in turn integrated into the groups three-year business plans.
Included in this plan is the Risk appetite groups strategic and tactical response to Basel II, economic capital, risk appetite and financial targets including risk-adjusted Risk appetite is an articulation of the risk capacity or quantum return on capital, long-run three-year capital planning and of risk Nedbank Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy, various proposed capital optimisation actions.
duly set and monitored by its board of directors and integrated into its strategy and business plans.
Basel ll Nedbank measures risk appetite in terms of quantitative risk Basel II is mandatory in South Africa from 1 January 2008. measures, which include earnings-at-risk or earnings volatility, Nedbank Group was well positioned for the introduction of Basel II economic and regulatory capital adequacy and risk limits.
and the groups estimated Basel II capital requirements have for Qualitatively, Nedbank expresses risk appetite in terms of policies, some time been integrated into its three-year business plans and procedures and controls designed to limit risks that may or may its long-run capital planning within the strategic capital plan.
Overall, no material impact is expected on the capital levels of Capital management Nedbank Group after the full implementation of Basel II in 2008.
Nedbank Groups Capital Management Framework is designed to meet its external stakeholders needs, both those more focused on the return or profitability of the group relative to the risk assumed or risk versus return and those more focused on the adequacy of the groups capital in relation to its risk profile or solvency.
The framework is based on world-class risk and capital management, integrated with strategy, performance measurement and incentives, and intended to fulfill one of the groups twelve key strategic objectives, namely to optimise risk and capital.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 50 An award-winning Group Mutual & Federal SAFSIA 2007 Awards Category Insurance Award Corporate Insurer of the Year Group Finance Directors report continued Mutual & Federal General Insurance Risk Finance division Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited Mutual & Federal The Risk Finance division has a dominant position in the South shares are publicly listed on the JSE.
The Group currently owns African market.
The division continues to enjoy a highly positive 75% of the company, but has indicated its intention to exit general profile within the industry and is one of the largest suppliers of risk insurance and accordingly Old Mutual plc is in discussions with financing solutions in Africa.
The division offers facilities to clients community-based investment group, Royal Bafokeng Holdings on a rent-a-captive basis, as well as through independent cells Proprietary Limited RBH, which may or may not result in the owned by third parties.
sale by Old Mutual to RBH of a controlling interest in Mutual & Federal.
If the potential offer proceeds, RBH would make Performance during 2007 an offer for all of the issued share capital of Mutual & Federal and Solid performance in a challenging year Old Mutual would undertake to accept it in relation to a minimum of 60% and a maximum of 70% out of its overall stake in Mutual Highlights Rm 2007 2006 % change & Federal.
IFRS adjusted operating profit 1,256 1,039 21% 1 Gross premiums 9,323 8,549 9% Business profile 1 Earned premiums 7,948 7,458 7% 1 Mutual & Federal provides insurance services to the personal, Claims ratio 66% 63% 1 commercial and corporate markets in South Africa, Namibia, Combined ratio 95.4% 93.9% 1 Botswana and Zimbabwe through professional and highly Solvency ratio 42% 49% 1 experienced brokers who are able to offer clients personal service Return on capital 3-year average 31.7% 27.5% and advice when purchasing policies, and practical assistance in the event of a claim.
The business manages its insurance 1 As reported by Mutual & Federal.
operations in three broad segments, which reflect the markets within which clients are serviced.
Mutual & Federal maintained solid results in the context of a highly competitive trading environment and a gradual decline in the Commercial division underwriting cycle following the record results achieved in 2004 and 2005.
The Commercial division provides a comprehensive portfolio of insurance services, including domestic and export credit risk, The underwriting result for the year was adversely impacted by an insurance against fire, accident and motor risk and crop insurance increase in the severity and frequency of large claims, particularly services to a diverse range of customers from small and mediumindustrial fires.
Severe weather conditions experienced in South sized businesses to large corporations including mining and heavy Africa also negatively affected the results.
In addition, despite industrial companies.
Where clients require specialist insurance strong rating adjustments and underwriting interventions, results expertise such as engineering, marine and agricultural knowledge, in the motor account continued to be negatively impacted by an these are also provided by this division.
increase in claims emanating from high levels of accidents on South African roads.
Personal division The Personal division provides domestic household, motor, and allrisks short-term insurance products to individual clients through white-labelled intermediary-branded and in-house products.
One of the in-house products, Allsure, offers clients lower premiums by combining household goods and motor insurance into one policy.
The division also offers hospital cash plans and various forms of personal accident policies.
Allsure is supported by intermediaries throughout South Africa, providing customers with excellent value, supported by a fair and fast claims-settling service.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 51 Motor Claims Advertising The Motor Claims campaign ran from 22 November to 13 December 2007 before the majority of South Africans went on holiday.
Radio Mutual & Federal sponsored live traffic reports on national and regional stations during peak hours.
These were supported by a 30-second radio commercial that advised policyholders to use the call centre number in the event of an accident.
Print Mutual & Federal ran three different English and Afrikaans advertisements in leading newspapers countrywide advising policy holders to use the call centre number in the event of an accident.
Gross premiums Market environment and outlook Gross premiums in Risk Finance grew by only 2%, but the The southern African general insurance market remained extremely Personal and Commercial portfolios grew 9% and 13% competitive during 2007.
Premium rates increased, but growth in respectively, giving an overall increase of 9% against the prior year.
premiums was more than offset by poor claims experience from This was achieved despite the cancellation of certain uneconomical weather-related claims and the motor book.
More positively, the blocks of business within the Personal division.
Mutual & Federal buoyancy of the economy has resulted in pockets of new markets does not accept risks at sub-economic rates and has diligently and customers and the black middle class continues to drive the followed prudent underwriting practices.
bulk of economic activity in South Africa.
Combined ratio weakens There has been strong growth in the direct channels, driven by a growing preference of customers to deal with direct channel Mutual & Federal generated an underwriting surplus of R366 insurers.
The motor books of most broker-based insurers have million 2006: R455 million, or a ratio of 4.6% to earned either been unprofitable or marginally profitable, and remain premiums 2006: 6.1%, which is above our long-term objective a strong challenge for insurers.
The estimation methods used in providing for claims and other technical liabilities were further refined and this released R96 A gradual decline in the value of the Rand threatens to increase million 2006: R215 million into the underwriting result.
adjustments are excluded, the underwriting result improved over the previous year by R52 million.
The vision of management remains to be the strongest and most successful short-term insurer in its chosen markets, being all The trading environment remains conducive to producing an classes of general insurance except those that carry long-term improved underwriting profit in 2008, with signs of a hardening claims liabilities.
In order to achieve this, management focuses of rates in certain sectors.
Recent electricity load-shedding has on profitability, growth from new and existing markets and created substantial inconvenience to Mutual & Federal, but is channels, new regions and acquisitions, as well as new products.
unlikely to impact the underwriting account significantly.
Management plans to rejuvenate the brand to meet the challenges of the current and future market.
Operational efficiencies will be Solvency ratio achieved through new business processes and technology.
In The solvency ratio has decreased from 49% to 42% following the addition management is seeking to improve employee satisfaction payment of a special dividend of R2 per share in December 2007. and to realise significant transformation in the workplace.
Strong growth in adjusted operating profit and return on Real growth in units will be achieved through new product capital exceeding target development and exploration of alternative distribution channels The adjusted operating profit includes R262 million arising from and emerging markets.
The business continues to focus on its key a change in the long-term investment return rate from 11.1% to financial targets of sustaining a long-term average underwriting 15.6%.
This, together with special dividends of R8 per share paid ratio of 4% and delivering a return on capital in excess of in 2006 and R2 per share in 2007, has contributed to an increase 20%, while maintaining service excellence to intermediaries in the return on capital from 27.5% in 2006 to 31.7% in 2007. and policyholders.
This is well ahead of our targeted return of 20%.
The loss ratio is expected to remain reasonably steady following the return to more normal claims patterns and the correction of certain underperforming accounts.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 52 An award-winning Group Mutual & Federal SAFSIA 2007 Awards Category Insurance Award Personal Insurer of the Year Group Finance Directors report continued Risk management United States Underwriting risks are controlled through a formal system of Highlights parameters within Mutual & Federal that is only deviated from following approval by senior management.
Reinsurance cover Gross life sales of $6.1bn, up 58% on the prior year is set at conservative levels and is in place for losses arising from Driven by Old Mutual Bermuda, which now catastrophic events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, severe hail, floods and fires, with retentions set at conservative represents 25% of Funds Under Management levels.
The business does not provide cover against losses Asset Management net client cash flows of $35.2bn, from terrorist attacks, a risk that is underwritten by the South African Government.
13% of opening funds under management Driven by continued strong investment Management has set a number of financial objectives for the Group performance in pursuit of Mutual & Federals corporate mission.
The following performance against these was achieved during the year: Life business achieves capital self-sufficiency Dividend paid by the US business for the an underwriting surplus of 4.6%, which was in excess of the first time during 2007 long-term objective of 4%: general expenses increased by 9.0%, which was broadly within Long-term equity plans implemented inflation levels and in accordance with the corporate objective: at several affiliates a return on capital in excess of 20%: following the payment of the special dividend, a solvency Half of our affiliates now have equity in the margin of 42% was achieved it is expected that the ratio will hands of employees be managed to a new target range of 30% to 35%, while the company maintained a level of 80% of shareholders funds invested in listed equities.
The target for premium growth of inflation plus growth in Gross Domestic Product plus 2% was not achieved because of the highly competitive market, which made the pursuit of business inadvisable where this would have led to deterioration Funds under management in profitability.
1 bn Funds under management as percentage of Group 61 % Growth in funds under management 22% Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 53 New thinking Old Mutuals intermediary and first-ever US direct-to-consumer brand advertising campaigns.
The campaigns focused on new thinking and name recognition.
Old Mutual has built significant asset management and life Reputation risk assurance businesses in the United States through a number of As participants in the financial services industry, the businesses acquisitions as well as strong organic growth over the past seven must maintain a high-quality reputation in order to attract and years.
Our US businesses are well placed strategically to take retain clients and employees.
If the businesses fail, or appear to advantage of demographic and other related trends as we continue fail, to deal properly with the various issues for example, potential to seek to develop innovative product solutions, deliver strong conflicts of interest or customer privacy, that could potentially investment performance and grow our retail presence.
Substantial harm their reputation and they could experience adverse effects to investment was made during 2007 in a co-ordinated branding their operations and financial results.
initiative aimed at financial intermediaries as well as individual retail consumers, focused on new thinking and name recognition.
Litigation risk In the fourth quarter, we commenced a campaign of television and The businesses are subject to claims and lawsuits in the ordinary radio commercials and online advertising plans.
The campaign course of their activities, which can result in settlements and is a finalist for both an American Advertising Federation Addy awards.
It is inherently difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of Award the world's largest advertising competition and Fund these matters, particularly in cases in which claimants seek Actions Ad Campaign of The Year.
substantial or unspecified damages, and a substantial judgment, settlement, fine or penalty could be material to the businesses Risk management operating results for a particular future period, depending on the As a member of the financial services industry, both the US Life results for that period.
and Asset Management businesses are subject to certain risks.
Additionally, each of these businesses contains risks specific to Regulation risk its own industry.
Below are the risks inherent to both businesses.
The businesses are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and around the world.
Violation of applicable laws or Market and credit risk regulations could result in fines, temporary or permanent prohibition from engagement in certain activities, reputation harm, Overall market and economic conditions, which are beyond the suspension of personnel or revocation of their licences, suspension businesses control and cannot be predicted with great certainty, or termination of investment adviser or insurance registrations, generally have a direct impact on client asset valuations and the or other sanctions, which could cause earnings to decline.
A diversified group of product Additionally, the businesses may be adversely impacted by offerings is maintained to mitigate underperformance across the regulatory and legislative initiatives imposed by various US and business in a uniform manner.
However, in an environment of non-US regulatory and exchange authorities.
Accordingly, the adverse or uncertain market or economic conditions, the business businesses maintain a disciplined compliance and legal could experience decreased fee-based and performance-based infrastructure to ensure appropriate application of rules and revenue, investment losses and decreased profitability.
regulations in conducting their business.
Competition risk Operations risk The financial services industry has been, and is likely to continue The businesses rely on their respective systems, operational to be, intensely competitive.
The businesses compete with processes and infrastructure to help process numerous transactions companies having greater financial resources and with companies on a daily basis across various different markets.
In the event of offering other financial services.
The businesses generally a breakdown in an operational process for example, human error compete on the basis of their strong reputation, quality advice and or employee misconduct, a malfunction of the businesses superior service, performance, quality of employees and product systems or the third-party vendors systems, or external events offerings.
In the event that the businesses are not able to compete beyond the businesses control such as a natural disaster that successfully on one or more of these factors, they may face could impact both the operational processes and systems, the a reduction in market share, a reduction in revenues and or businesses could suffer business and financial losses and be a reduction in profitability.
subject to litigation and regulatory sanctions.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 54 An award-winning Group Old Mutual Capital, US Mutual Fund Education Alliance Awards Category Best overall communication Award Best Small Company Group Group Finance Directors report continued Client guideline risk Fixed index annuities FIA When clients retain one of the businesses to manage assets or Our FIA product has been consistently placed in the top five in the provide products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines US product segment over the past few years.
Under this product, or contractual requirements that the business is required to observe the policyholder is guaranteed not to lose principal, with a return in the provision of its services.
Failure to comply with these that is based on some participation in equity index movements.
guidelines or contractual requirements could result in reputational The potential equity index upside is covered using equity index damage or to the clients seeking to recover losses, clients options and futures, enabling us to provide the potential for gains withdrawing assets or terminating their contracts, any of which while managing exposure to loss of principal.
could cause earnings to decline.
Fixed annuities US Life These are fixed-rate contracts that involve the business investing in Business profile a portfolio of bonds that earn a spread above the rate guaranteed The US Life business comprises OM Financial Life Insurance to the policyholder.
There are two main types of fixed annuities, the Company and its subsidiary, OM Financial Life Insurance Company principal purpose of one being to offer a tax-efficient way to save of New York, which are marketed under the name of Old Mutual money for retirement, and the other to provide an income stream Financial Network OMFN and Old Mutual Bermuda.
We commenced operations in the US life market in 2001 through Variable annuities the acquisition of several established insurance companies, the The variable annuity products sold through our offshore business, largest being OM Financial Life Insurance Company formerly Old Mutual Bermuda, are investment products targeted at non-US known as Fidelity and Guaranty Life Insurance Company.
citizens residing outside the United States.
The variable annuity The business is headquartered in Baltimore, with a sales office product is essentially a unit-linked investment plan which provides in Atlanta, and offers a diverse portfolio of annuities and life various guarantees with distribution primarily through private banks.
insurance products to individuals in the United States.
2007 marked the launch by OMFN of our first onshore variable Our operations were further strengthened in 2003 with the annuity.
This product packages guarantees that provide offsetting acquisition of Old Mutual Bermuda formerly known as OMNIA risks to the business, which in turn results in pricing advantages to Life Bermuda.
This offshore variable annuity business has been policyholders.
The product is primarily sold through independent positioned within private bank channels, one of the main sources insurance agents.
A second-generation product will soon be launched, of business for the international insurance market, and has designed for distribution through registered investment advisers.
provided significant sales growth since acquisition.
Protection products The US Life business has experienced strong new business growth Our US Life business offers two principal protection product lines, since its acquisition, backed by Group capital injections in prior term mortgage protection and universal life products, which provide periods.
US Life remitted a dividend to the Group in 2007. flexible life assurance protection in the event of death or illness.
Through the introduction of some product features such as partial US Lifes fixed income investments are invested by our US Asset return of premium benefits, and quick underwriting turnaround Management business, which manages these on a commercial times, our products have grown rapidly in this traditional life segment.
The majority of US Lifes administrative functions are outsourced to third-party service providers.
While our OMFN products are distributed through various channels, the majority of sales are generated through established groups of managing general agents MGAs, with the MGAs typically providing agents with access to a range of annuity and life assurance products from different suppliers.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 55 New thinking The second advertisement in a campaign focused on new thinking and name recognition for Old Mutuals US direct-to-consumer brand.
Performance during 2007 Value of new business and healthy margins driven by strong Continuing strong international variable annuity sales add to offshore variable annuity sales diversity of earnings VNB for the year of $144 million was up 73% due to the higher volume of Bermuda variable annuity business.
The new business Highlights $m 2007 2006 % change margin of 21% was at the high end of our longer-term expectations primarily driven by Bermuda variable annuity business.
The overall IFRS adjusted operating profit pre-tax 195 230 15% 1 business continues to benefit from good investment performance Return on equity 5.9% 7.3% and enhanced distribution.
Our co-ordinated retail distribution EV adjusted operating profit pre-tax 126 181 30% strategy has made good progress.
Return on Embedded Value 3.8% 6.1% 2 Life assurance sales APE 671 455 47% Underlying results solid Value of new business post-tax 144 83 73% 2 New business margin post-tax 21% 18% IFRS and EV adjusted operating profit and returns decreased 2 Present value of new business premiums 6,305 4,093 54% in 2007 compared to 2006.
This was due to assumption and Funds under management $bn 24.1 22.1 9% modelling changes recorded during 2007 and non-recurring net investment income in the first half of 2006 of $18 million.
1 Restated due to change in ROE methodology.
As indicated at our interim results, we strengthened our annuitant 2 Restated due to change in US Life APE calculation to align with the volume mortality assumptions and adopted a more conservative of new business calculation.
approach to future assumed spreads.
These changes resulted in a $277 million $186 million post-tax adjustment to Embedded Growth in funds under management Value, of which $195 million $131 million post-tax was in Funds under management of $24.1 billion at year end were up respect of annuitant mortality assumptions included within EV 9% due to positive net client cash flows of $2.4 billion, primarily adjusted operating profit and a $60 million adjustment to pre-tax driven by strong Old Mutual Bermuda variable annuity sales, IFRS adjusted operating profit.
Excluding these impacts, IFRS partially offset by increased surrenders on the Multi-Year Guaranteed adjusted operating profit was up 20%, driven by higher average Annuity block of business and a 1% decrease in the fair value of asset levels.
Credit update The business returned cash in 2007, while exceeding targeted 3% of US Lifes fixed income portfolio of $21 billion has direct risk-based capital ratios in the operating entities including exposure to sub-prime debt and this helped US Life weather the OM Financial Life Insurance Company and Old Mutual Bermuda.
market turbulence during the second half of 2007.
The sub-prime exposure is highly rated 86% is AAA, 99% is AA and higher, and Excellent sales growth in international variable annuity business 100% is A and higher, concentrated in first mortgages without Total life sales were $6.1 billion on a gross basis, up 58% over rate-reset risk, and owner-occupied, rather than investor properties.
Total life sales APE was $671 million, a 47% increase over 2006.
Sales by Old Mutual Bermuda were the largest contributor to Approximately 2.3% of US Lifes investment portfolio has exposure the increase over the prior year.
to monoline insurers, of which $493 million 85% of the total exposure is indirect wrapped exposure, with a 95% fair value-toOld Mutual Bermuda increased sales on an APE basis by 201% book value ratio, and $90 million is direct unsecured exposure, to $360 million compared to 2006, representing 54% of APE with a 87% fair value-to-book value ratio.
Of the 15% that sales in the US Life business.
The increase in sales was due to a represents the unsecured exposure, most is being recapitalised, new product launch in April 2007 and new distribution agreements or has sufficient funds to go into run-off mode, if necessary.
Bermuda now represents 25% of total funds under management.
Universal life sales were up over the comparative However, US Life was not fully immune to the unfavourable credit period by 28% as part of a shift from a term life-focused distribution conditions and recorded $64 million of impairment provisions to a more balanced life portfolio.
Continued demand for fixed during the fourth quarter.
For IFRS adjusted operating profit, the indexed annuities was also a contributing factor.
We have an impairment provision did not impact the long-term investment attractive and diverse mix of product offerings including variable return in 2007. annuities, fixed indexed annuities, term life and universal life.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 56 An award-winning Group Old Mutual, US 2007 ADDY Awards Category Television Campaign Award Bronze award for So Old Mutual Group Finance Directors report continued The investment portfolios aggregate credit experience remained Policyholder option risk within expectations and is in line with long-term assumptions.
Fixed annuity policyholder option risk is managed by investing in fixed securities with durations within a half year of the duration of Market environment and Outlook the liabilities, with the exception of our longest duration liabilities, 2008 will see the continued expansion and development of US which are managed within a year of the liability duration, and cash Lifes product portfolio across all of its product platforms in concert flows in any period are closely aligned to ensure mismatches are with its independent distribution partners.
For the fixed annuity minimal.
Extensive interest rate scenario-testing is undertaken, line, launches are planned of an indexed-linked guaranteed as required by regulatory authorities, to ensure that the amounts investment contract, a vesting bonus-type product, as well as reserved are sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
several more traditional fixed annuity products.
In January 2008 the domestic variable annuity range was augmented with the Additionally, the guaranteed returns provided in relation to the fixed launch of an innovative zero-commission product, Beacon Advisor.
index annuity and variable annuity products are hedged to manage This product is targeted at the growing fee-based planner the matching of option payoffs to liability growth, with hedging community.
During 2008 the domestic US variable annuity group positions reviewed and re-adjusted as necessary.
In the event that will be launching a bank-focused distribution capability.
Old Mutual misalignments of assets and liabilities occur, adverse impacts could Bermuda will continue to build on its extensive bank-focused result in a decline in earnings.
distribution and plans to enhance its product line during 2008.
US Asset Management Driving towards a more balanced product portfolio will be a core Through our US Asset Management business, we combine the emphasis including the build-out of both indexed universal life and investment focus of boutique managers with the stability and traditional fixed universal life products.
OMFN will continue to resources of a large, international firm.
We have created an focus its efforts on expanding its en Espaol channel to meet the environment where unique, entrepreneurial asset management needs of the US Spanish-speaking market and maintain a leading boutiques can thrive and the investment professionals within them position in the term insurance market.
can do their best work for our clients.
We have capitalised on our economies of scale and brought best-practice risk management, The retail and brand strategy will evolve as we seek to expand technology, legal and distribution capabilities to our affiliates.
our retail capability with a focus on affluent and middle-market Our firms are free to focus their time and resources on delivering baby-boomers by providing solutions that address peoples needs strong investment performance.
during the life-cycle of accumulation, protection, retirement income and care.
Business profile Our US Asset Management business, based in Boston and Risk management established through the acquisition of UAM in 2000, now Underwriting risk consists of 20 distinct boutique firms, including asset managers Underwriting risk is carefully controlled through underwriting who specialise in high-quality, active investment strategies for principles governing product repricing procedures and authority institutional clients, high net worth individuals and mutual fund limits.
The underwriting process takes into account prospective investors.
Collectively, the Asset Management business offers mortality, morbidity and expense experience, with a large over 100 distinctive investment strategies.
Individually, however, proportion of the mortality and morbidity risk reinsured to highly each member firm has its own vibrant, entrepreneurial culture of rated companies.
In the event that such processes are not investment managers focusing on their particular area of expertise.
adequately designed or operating effectively to project experiences, the business may assume variances to expected earnings levels.
The business has benefitted strongly from its affiliate structure, offering a diversity of investment styles, minimising exposure to the changing preferences of investors, and benefitting from efficiency savings resulting from the centralisation of compliance and distribution capabilities.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 57 New thinking The third advertisement in a campaign focused on new thinking and name recognition for Old Mutuals US direct-to-consumer brand.
The businesss asset mix is weighted towards value equities, Retail accounts fixed income and non-US Dollar-denominated international assets.
The Old Mutual Advisor Funds offered through our retail distribution While the business consists of a diverse range of affiliates, Acadian arm, Old Mutual Capital, allow individual investors access to Asset Management, an international equities firm, is the largest  management in a mutual fund format.
manager with 25% of total funds under management, having nearly tripled in size since December 2005.
Dwight Asset Individual mutual funds are currently offered in a wide range of Management, a fixed income manager, accounts for 21% of total asset classes and investment styles.
Funds are offered as singlefunds under management.
Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, strategy mutual funds, or alternatively as diversified asset allocation a value equity manager, holds another 20% of the firms assets.
funds under the Pure Portfolio brand.
In addition, multi-strategy Over time, the largest firms within US Asset Management may funds are offered that leverage the capabilities of our firms as well change, depending on the market environment and investment as these of selected outside managers.
Single-strategy mutual funds are currently offered by our affiliates in Most affiliates now operate under profit-sharing arrangements, US equities, fixed income, international equities, emerging markets, with a certain percentage of operating profit, after overheads and real estate investment trusts and money markets.
salaries, paid to the affiliates as variable compensation.
Long-term equity plans have also been implemented during 2007 at Acadian We achieved exchangeability between our two retail platforms Asset Management, Analytic Investors and Thompson, Siegel and during 2007, providing investors with the ability to trade in and Walmsley.
Half of our affiliates now own equity in their businesses, out of the funds across the platforms, and we have also recently and additional implementations are planned for 2008.
This model restructured our Asset Allocation funds into a fund-of-funds differentiates us from our competitors and, in conjunction with the structure, enhancing our flexibility as well as helping to achieve profit-sharing arrangements, ensures that the interests of our scale in many of our single-strategy funds.
A fund rationalisation affiliates are closely aligned with those of our shareholders.
exercise has also recently been initiated, aimed at consolidating or closing underperforming funds during the first half of 2008.
US Asset Managements product range includes the following: Performance during 2007 Institutional accounts Another year of strong investment performance and asset growth Actively managed investment products are offered in all the major 1 asset classes and investment styles.
The businesss investment Highlights $m 2007 2006 % change capabilities span US and global equities, fixed income, real estate IFRS adjusted operating profit 324 259 25% and alternative asset classes.
Separate accounts and actively Mutual fund unit trust sales 3,782 3,088 22% managed commingled accounts are offered across a range of asset Net client cash flows $bn 35.2 31.0 14% classes and investment strategies.
Our US Asset Management Operating margin 27% 27% business has been a pioneer in the market for 130 30 and similar Funds under management $bn 332.6 272.6 22% strategies, which seek to enhance further the alpha produced through active management.
This is a fast-growing area for 1 2006 comparative information has been restated to include OMAM UK investors, and these products typically command higher fees.
transferred from the Skandia UK segment to the US Asset Management segment, and to exclude fund flows related to eSecLending, which was sold in 2006.
Five of our affiliates Acadian Asset Management, Analytic Investors, Thompson, Siegel & Walmsley, Thomson Horstmann & Bryant, and Dwight Asset Management Company manage assets in this market.
Acadian and Analytic in particular have established excellent five-year track records.
We are also seeing a diversification of our client base, with a significant proportion of our net client cash flows coming from investors outside the United States.
Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 58 Group Finance Directors report continued Investment performance drives growth in funds under management Institutional business remains the anchor of our portfolio, and in the near term is expected to continue to provide the majority of our Strong investment performance at our affiliates continued to asset growth, as well as support further expansion of our retail attract new funds during a volatile year in global equity markets.
business, which will continue to be a focus in 2008.
We will also At 31 December 2007, 83% of assets had outperformed their continue to seek opportunities to develop our portfolio of asset benchmarks and 83% were ranked above the median of their peer managers as circumstances evolve.
group over the trailing three-year period.
A pleasing $35.2 billion of net client cash flows, 13% of opening funds under management, Global equity markets have had a poor start to 2008, and in the were up 14% on 2006 with Rogge, Acadian, Barrow Hanley and absence of a recovery this will restrict earnings growth for our US Dwight the largest contributors.
Market appreciation of $22 billion Asset Management business over the coming year.
However, our and the acquisition of $3 billion in assets at Ashfield Capital track record of excellent investment performance has positioned Partners contributed to an overall increase in funds under us well relative to our competitors, and our diversified asset management of 22% to $332.6 billion at 31 December 2007. mix between equities and fixed income will help us weather market volatility.
Retail sales growth continues Old Mutual Capitals gross mutual fund sales increased 3% from Risk management 2006 to $1,408 million despite the impact of volatile markets Key employee risk during the second half of the year.
At year end, 14 of Old Mutual The businesss employees are its most important assets, and Capitals mutual funds carried fouror five-star rankings by competition for qualified employees is strong, especially for Morningstar.
OMAM UK s unit trust sales increased 38% over investment professionals.
We mitigate the risk of loss of key 2006 to $2,374 million, benefitting from investments made during employees through the use of long-term incentive schemes aligned 2006 to enhance the product offering and distribution capabilities with shareholder value targets, and through competition restrictions of the business.
If the business cannot continue to attract and retain quality employees, or if the costs to IFRS adjusted operating profit increases 25% attract and retain quality employees rise due to the competition for Adjusted operating profit for the year was up 25% compared such employees, operations and financial performance could be to the prior year, primarily as a result of increased funds under adversely impacted.
management and higher performance fees.
The operating margin remained in line with the prior year, dampened during 2007 by Other Key Performance Indicators US Asset Management expenses associated with long-term equity plan implementations.
1 The loss of margin was offset, however, by above-average net client 2007 2006 cash flows.
Aligning the interests of our affiliates and shareholders Annualised revenue full-year impact through equity plans is critical to setting us apart in this regard.
from net client cash flows $m 105 88 Average fee rate basis points 30 30 Market environment and outlook Return on capital 11% 10% Competition in the United States is strong, with each of Old Mutuals Asset Management firms facing significant competition 1 2006 comparative information has been restated to include OMAM UK, and excludes fund flows related to eSecLending, which was sold in 2006. from other specialist providers.
The differentiating factors between firms are often investment performance and product capabilities.
Our investment managers have a record of delivering excellent long-term performance and, through our ability to leverage the diverse styles of our individual firms, we are able to seek targeted investment opportunities to broaden our product capabilities.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 59 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance An outdoor, print media and radio campaign for Kotaks Unit-Linked Child Plans, Headstart Child Plans.
Asia Pacific and other Business profile Operations in Skandia Group Australia include retail mutual funds Highlights and institutional investment funds.
They are structured along two complementary business lines: Strong growth in sales Retail: trading as Australian Skandia Limited, focusing on the Continued geographical and distribution expansion delivery and administration of investments and superannuation Healthy new business margins consistent solutions for retail investors.
The platform is used by licensed financial advisers.
with those of listed competitors Institutional: currently operating under the Intech brand, Pursuing market entry strategy for further expansion providing institutional and corporate clients with multi-manager investment solutions.
Old Mutuals business in China, Skandia:BSAM is a 50:50 joint venture established in 2004 in conjunction with the Beijing State-Owned Asset Management Company BSAM.
It provides unit-linked assurance solutions for high net worth individuals and has licences to operate in Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu Province and Guangdong Province.
Distribution is exclusively through third parties including banks, securities houses and brokers.
Chinas unit-linked market is at an early stage of development and has promising potential in the longer term.
In India, Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance offers a range of individual and group life assurance products.
Old Mutual currently owns a 26% stake in this joint venture with the Kotak Mahindra Group, with an option to increase this to 49% when applicable local legislation permits.
Performance during 2007 Funds under management Highlights m 2007 2006 % change 1 Australia unit trust mutual funds sales 604 560 8% 6.5bn Australia institutional sales 115 n a Skandia:BSAM China 2 gross premiums 122 38 221% Funds under management Advisers selling Skandia:BSAM products 2,477 799 210% as percentage of Group 2 KMOM India gross premiums 163 108 51% KMOM branches 106 65 63% 2% 1 Skandia businesses included in the 2006 numbers have been adjusted on a pro-forma basis assuming ownership for 12 months rather than 11 months.
2 This represents 100% of the businesses: Old Mutual owns 50% of Skandia:BSAM and 26% of Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance KMOM.
Growth in funds under management 12% Performance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 60 An award-winning Group Australian Skandia John West Platform Awards Category Market growth Award Rising Star Award Group Finance Directors report continued GBP exchange rates AUD RMB INR Market environment and outlook Closing 2.26 14.47 78.15 Old Mutual continues to see Asia Pacific as a very attractive growth Average 2.39 15.23 82.77 region characterised by high levels of economic activity and rising disposable income and personal wealth well suited to quality protection and savings products.
In January 2008 we announced the appointment of Steffen Gilbert as Regional Head of Asia Pacific and also the establishment Markets within the region are diverse and unsuited to a one size of our Asia Pacific headquarters in Hong Kong.
This will form the fits all business model.
In developing our businesses in the region base from which we intend to expand our existing operations in our plans reflect different stages of economic development, as well the region.
as varying cultures, languages, legal and regulatory frameworks.
Australia Australia continues to be an attractive market in the Asia Pacific After breaking even for the first time in 2006, the business generated region for asset gathering activities given the high level of funds under management, strong growth and market maturity underpinned an operating profit of AUD7.8 million 3.3 million in 2007.
At 31 December 2007, funds under management were AUD14.5 by Government superannuation legislation.
While this is a highly competitive and regulated market, we continue to see good billion 6.4 billion, up 2% from AUD14.2 billion 5.7 billion at 31 December 2006.
This was made up of institutional funds of opportunities for growth.
AUD8.7 billion and retail funds of AUD5.8 billion.
Integration of the institutional business, acquired in late 2006, is now complete and on Our key Asia Pacific objective is to develop a credible operation in terms of both size and profitability.
As well as building and widening track to generate the expected cost savings.
The 2007 John West Platform awards in Australia named Australian Skandia Limited as our presence in existing markets, we will develop opportunities for geographic expansion.
the rising star for having above-average platform funds under management growth.
We will continue to provide working capital to our Indian and China Chinese joint ventures to support their further expansion and expect our Australian business to continue to grow profitably in 2008.
Skandia:BSAM, now in its third full year of operation, continues to show strong sales growth gross premiums for the year were Risk management over three times the prior year.
Despite its recent entry into the In addition to many of the risks faced by the other Old Mutual market, of the 24 foreign-owned joint venture insurance companies businesses, Asia Pacific has to contend with the challenges of in China, Skandia:BSAM had, for 2007, the eighth largest gross operating in emerging markets with developing economies and premium flows up two places compared to 2006.
Our management teams have to face product range was granted the most welcome financial product these challenges in small, dynamic, fast growing businesses.
award at the Shanghai Financial Expo 2007.
New business margins Accordingly management of risk is a key priority.
are just over 25%, which is higher than our long-term expectations.
Jonathan Nicholls India Group Finance Director Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd continues to show 27 February 2008 steady progress.
The business now operates in 74 cities, with 106 branches across India.
Gross premiums for the calendar year were 163 million, up 51% from 108 million for the prior year.
In September we agreed to boost the venture with a capital injection of INR1.5 billion approximately 19 million in order for the business to extend its office network and increase its workforce.
New business margins are healthy and are consistent with those of listed competitors in the country.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 61 Asia Pacific Skandia Values posters used by Skandia:BSAM based on the Groups values.
Forward-looking statements This Business Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to certain of Old Mutual plcs plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond Old Mutual plcs control, including, among other things, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing and impact of other uncertainties or of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and regulations in territories where Old Mutual plc or its affiliates operate.
As a result, Old Mutual plcs actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in Old Mutual plcs forward-looking statements.
Old Mutual plc undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Business Review or any other forward-looking statements that it may make.
