MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS affecting the health, safety, security and or vacation CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FACTORS satisfaction of guests: THAT mAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS a dverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in genSome of the statements contained in this 2007 annual eral, or us in particular, could impact the demand for report are forward-looking statements that involve risks, our cruises: uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, l ack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and goals and other events which have not yet occurred.
these services by our guests: statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from c hanging consumer preferences, which may, among liability provided by Section 27a of the Securities act of 1933 other things, adversely impact the demand for cruises: and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange act of 1934.
We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by t he impact of changes in and compliance with laws and using words like will, may, believe, expect, anticiregulations relating to environmental, health, safety, secupate, forecast, future, intends, plan, and estimate rity, tax and other regulatory regimes under which we and similar expressions.
operate, including the implementation of U. S. regulations Because forward-looking statements involve risks and requiring U. S. citizens to obtain passports for sea travel uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause our to or from additional foreign destinations: actual results, performance or achievements to differ materit he impact of increased global fuel demand, a weakening ally from those expressed or implied in this 2007 annual U. S. dollar, fuel supply disruptions and or other events on report.
Forward-looking statements include those statements our ships fuel expenses: which may impact the forecasting of our earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operatt he impact of changes in operating and financing costs, ing, financing and or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available including changes in foreign currency exchange rates lower berth day alBD, estimates of ship depreciable lives and interest rates and food, insurance, payroll and and residual values, outlook or business prospects.
these security costs: factors include, but are not limited to, the following: o ur ability to implement our shipbuilding programs, general economic and business conditions and percepincluding purchasing ships for our north american cruise tions of these conditions that may adversely impact the brands from European shipyards on terms that are favorlevels of our potential vacationers discretionary income able or consistent with our expectations: and this groups confidence in the U. S. and other econoo ur ability to implement our brand strategies and to conmies and, consequently reduce our cruise brands net tinue to operate and expand our business internationally: revenue yields: o ur future operating cash flow may not be sufficient to the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorfund future obligations, and we may not be able to obtain ist attacks and threats thereof, availability and pricing of financing, if necessary, on terms that are favorable or air service and other world events, and their impact on consistent with our expectations: the demand for cruises: o ur ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation indusand maintain good relations with employee unions: tries, including competition from other cruise ship operators and providers of other vacation alternatives and over c ontinuing financial viability of our travel agent distribucapacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation tion system and air service providers: alternatives: t he impact of our self-insuring against various risks or accidents, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, our inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents reasonable rates: including machinery and equipment failures or improper d isruptions and other impairments to our information operation thereof which could cause the alteration of technology networks: itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises, and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases, Carnival Corporation & plC | 31 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued lack of continued availability of attractive port destinations: to reduce a portion of the impact of the higher fuel costs.
However, we cannot be certain of the ultimate impact of risks associated with the DLC structure, including the the fuel supplement on our net revenue yields because this uncertainty of its tax status: increase may be partially offset by a reduction in ticket prices.
the impact of pending or threatened litigation: and throughout this five year period we generated significant cash flows and remained in a strong financial position, which our ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans.
is a high priority for us and we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the capital intensive cruise industry.
Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as We continued to distribute excess cash to shareholders through a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing obliincreased dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
gations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, we However, our operations are subject to many risks, as briefly expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the noted under the caption Cautionary note Concerning Factors date of this 2007 annual report, any updates or revisions to that May affect Future results which could adversely any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in impact our future results.
expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which as of January 29, 2008, we had signed agreements with any such statements are based.
three shipyards providing for the construction of 22 additional cruise ships, the majority of which have been designated for ExECUTIvE OvERvIEW our European brands see note 6 in the accompanying finanDuring most of 2007, the cruise industry continued to cial statements.
these new ships are expected to continue to experience solid growth for non-Caribbean product offerings.
help us maintain our leadership position within the world-wide However, there were a number of factors, such as a weaker cruise industry.
the year-over-year percentage increase in our U. S. economy, including the impact on consumers of higher alBD capacity for fiscal 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, fuel costs and tighter credit markets and higher U. S. interest resulting primarily from new ships entering service is currently rates, which we believe had adverse effects on vacationers expected to be 9.
0%, respecdiscretionary income and their confidence in the U. S. econtively.
the above percentages exclude any other future ship omy.
Some of these factors, as well as the lingering effects orders, acquisitions, retirements or sales, however they do of the 2005 hurricane season, contributed to a reduction in include the withdrawal from service of the Pacific Star in March north american-sourced demand for Caribbean cruises and, 2008 and the Queen Elizabeth 2 QE2 in november 2008. accordingly, resulted in lower pricing for most of our Caribbean cruise itineraries during the first half of 2007.
During the secOUTLOOk FOR FISCAL 2008 2008 ond half of fiscal 2007 we experienced a modest increase in most of our north american brands net revenue yields, while as of December 20, 2007, we said that we expected our most of our European brands net revenue yields decreased 2008 full year earnings per share will be in the range of $3.
10 slightly on a constant dollar basis.
We also said that we expected our first quarter 2008 From 2003 through 2007, the cruise industry has been earnings per share to be in the range of $0.
31. our adversely impacted by substantial increases in fuel prices, guidance was based on the then current forward fuel price which reduced earnings per share for the 2007 fiscal year by for full year 2008 and the 2008 first quarter of $486 and $484 $0.
10 compared to fiscal 2006. in 2003 our per metric ton of per metric ton, respectively.
in addition, this guidance was fuel cost was $179, whereas in 2007, our per metric ton cost also based on currency exchange rates of $1.
44 to the Euro of fuel was $361, an increase of 102%.
this has been the weakening of the U. S. dollar relative to the our 2008 full year earnings per share guidance remains Euro and Sterling, which benefited us in higher dollar profits unchanged based on our most recent internal forecast, as from our European operations.
it is possible that fuel prices adjusted by our January 22, 2008 full year forward fuel price will remain at high levels throughout fiscal 2008 and thereestimate of $484 per metric ton and foreign currency exchange after.
We have recently implemented a new fuel supplement rates of $1.
fee across substantially all of our brands, which should help 32 | Carnival Corporation & plC our 2008 first quarter forward fuel price estimate has in addition, because a significant portion of our operations increased to $505 per metric ton compared to our December utilize the Euro or Sterling to measure their results and finanguidance, which reduced our earnings per share guidance by cial condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. $0.
02. in addition, our first quarter 2008 results were adversely dollar reporting currency results in increases in reported impacted by $0.
01 per share from aiDaauras unexpected U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens cruise disruptions.
there has also been some softness in against these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported onboard revenues at certain of our contemporary brands, U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthwhich is expected to be offset by other cruise operating items.
ens against these foreign currencies.
accordingly, we also accordingly, our earnings per share for the first quarter of monitor and report our two non-Gaap financial measures 2008 is now expected to be in the range of $0.
28. assuming the current period currency exchange rates have the above forward-looking statements involve risks and remained constant with the prior years comparable period rates, or on a constant dollar basis, in order to remove the uncertainties.
various factors could cause our actual results impact of changes in exchange rates on our non-U.
S. dollar to differ materially from those expressed above including, cruise operations.
We believe that this is a useful measure as but not limited to, fuel costs, economic conditions, weather, it facilitates a comparative view of the growth of our business regulatory changes, geopolitical factors and other factors that in a fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
could impact consumer demand or costs.
You should read the on a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net above forward-looking statements together with the discuscruise costs would be $9.
26 billion for fiscal sion of these and other risks under Cautionary note 2007, respectively.
on a constant dollar basis, gross cruise Concerning Factors that May affect Future results.
revenues and gross cruise costs would be $12.
in addition, our nonkEY PERFORmANCE INDICATORS U. S. dollar cruise operations depreciation and net interest We use net cruise revenues per alBD net revenue expense were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for yields and net cruise costs per alBD as significant nonfiscal 2007 compared to 2006.
Gaap financial measures of our cruise segment financial performance.
We believe that net revenue yields are commonly CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTImATES used in the cruise industry to measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance.
this measure is also used for our critical accounting estimates are those which we believe revenue management purposes.
in calculating net revenue require our most significant judgments about the effect of yields, we use net cruise revenues rather than gross cruise matters that are inherently uncertain.
We believe that net cruise revenues is a more critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and meaningful measure in determining revenue yield than gross uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that matecruise revenues because it reflects the cruise revenues earned rially different estimates would be reported under different by us net of our most significant variable costs, which are conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: travel agent commissions, cost of air transportation and cerShip Accounting tain other variable direct costs associated with onboard and our most significant assets are our ships and ships under other revenues.
Substantially all of our remaining cruise costs construction, which represent 75% of our total assets.
We are largely fixed once our ship capacity levels have been make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our determined, except for the impact of changing prices.
First, we compute our ships depreciation net cruise costs per alBD is the most significant measure expense, which represented approximately 10% of our cruise we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment costs and expenses in fiscal 2007, which requires us to esticosts rather than gross cruise costs per alBD.
in calculating mate the average useful life of each of our ships, as well as net cruise costs, we exclude the same variable costs that are their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improveincluded in the calculation of net cruise revenues.
this is done ment costs by capitalizing those costs which we believe will to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two nonadd value to our ships and depreciate those improvements Gaap financial measures.
over their estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs and Carnival Corporation & plC | 33 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued method to equitably allocate the costs of our ships to the maintenance and minor improvement costs as they are periods during which services are obtained from their use.
Finally, when we record the retirement of a ship in addition, we believe that the estimates we made are reacomponent that is included within the ships cost basis, we sonable and our methods consistently applied in all material may have to estimate its net book value to determine the respects 1 in determining the average useful life and average amount of ship component retired.
residual values of our ships: 2 in determining which ship We determine the average useful life of our ships and improvement costs add value to our ships: and 3 in detertheir residual values based primarily on our estimates of the mining the net book value of ship component assets being weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships replaced or refurbished.
Finally, we believe our critical ship major component systems, such as cabins, main diesels, main accounting estimates are generally comparable with those of electric, superstructure and hull.
in addition, we consider, other major cruise companies.
among other things, long-term vacation market conditions and competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built ships.
Asset Impairment We have estimated our new ships average useful lives at 30 the impairment reviews of our ships, goodwill and tradeyears and their average residual values at 15% of our original marks, which has been allocated to our cruise line reporting ship cost.
units, require us to make significant estimates to determine Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, ship the fair values of these assets or reporting units.
accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are the determination of fair value includes numerous uncerinherently uncertain.
We do not have cost segregation studies tainties, unless a viable actively traded market exists for the performed to specifically componentize our ships.
in addition, asset or for a comparable reporting unit, which is usually since we do not separately componentize our ships, we do not the case for cruise ships, cruise lines and trademarks.
not identify and track depreciation of specific original ship For example, in determining fair values of ships utilizing discomponents.
therefore, we have to estimate the net book counted forecasted cash flows, significant judgments are made value of components that are replaced or refurbished, based concerning, among other things, future net revenue yields, primarily upon their replacement or refurbishment cost and net cruise costs per alBD, interest and discount rates, cruise their age.
itineraries, technological changes, consumer demand, governif materially different conditions existed, or if we materially mental regulations and the effects of competition.
in addition, changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our third party appraisers are sometimes used to determine fair depreciation expense or loss on replacement or refurbishment values of ships and cruise lines and some of their valuation of ship assets and net book value of our ships would be matemethodologies are also subject to similar types of uncertainrially different.
in addition, if we change our assumptions in ties.
also, the determination of fair values of cruise line reportmaking our determinations as to whether improvements to a ing units using a price earnings multiple approach also requires ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair significant judgments, such as determining reasonable multiand maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a ples.
Finally, determining trademark fair values also requires decrease in depreciation expense, as less costs would have significant judgments in determining both the estimated been initially capitalized to our ships.
our fiscal 2007 ship trademark cash flows, and the appropriate royalty rates to depreciation expense would have increased by approximately be applied to those cash flows to determine their fair value.
$26 million for every year we reduced our estimated average We believe that we have made reasonable estimates and 30 year ship useful life.
in addition, if our ships were estimated judgments in determining whether our ships, goodwill and to have no residual value, our fiscal 2007 depreciation expense trademarks have been impaired.
However, if there is a matewould have increased by approximately $133 million.
rial change in the assumptions used in our determination of We believe that the estimates we made for ship accountfair value or if there is a material change in the conditions or ing purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently circumstances influencing fair value, we could be required applied in all material respects and, accordingly, result in to recognize a material impairment charge.
depreciation expense that is based on a rational and systematic 34 | Carnival Corporation & plC Contingencies t he sale of goods and or services primarily onboard our We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to ships which include bar and some beverage sales, casino any lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other gaming, shore excursions, gift shop and spa sales and known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, photo and art sales and pre and post-cruise land packages.
guest and crew, and tax matters.
While it is typically very these goods and services are either provided directly by difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of us or by independent concessionaires, from which we these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it receive a percentage of their revenues or a fee.
is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settleWe incur cruise operating costs and expenses for the ment or final adjudication of such matters and whether a following: reasonable estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be made.
in assessing probable losses, we make estimates of t he costs of passenger cruise bookings, which represent the amount of probable insurance recoveries, if any, which are costs that vary directly with passenger cruise ticket reverecorded as assets.
We accrue a liability when we believe a nues, and include travel agent commissions, air and other loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably travel related costs, estimated, in accordance with the provisions of SFaS no.
5, o nboard and other cruise costs, which represent costs accounting for Contingencies, as amended.
Such accruals that vary directly with onboard and other revenues, and are typically based on developments to date, managements include the costs of liquor and some beverages, costs of estimates of the outcomes of these matters, our experience tangible goods sold by us from our gift, photo and art in contesting, litigating and settling other similar matters, auction activities, pre and post-cruise land packages and historical claims experience and actuarially determined credit card fees.
Concession revenues do not have any assumptions of liabilities, and any related insurance coverage.
significant amount of costs associated with them, as the See note 7 in the accompanying financial statements for costs and services incurred for these activities are proadditional information concerning our contingencies.
vided by our concessionaires, Given the inherent uncertainty related to the eventual outcome of these matters and potential insurance recoveries, it is p ayroll and related costs, which represent costs for all our possible that all or some of these matters may be resolved for shipboard personnel, including deck and engine officers amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures and crew and hotel and administrative employees, that we may have made with respect to their resolution.
in f uel costs, which include fuel delivery costs, addition, as new information becomes available, we may need to reassess the amount of probable liability that needs to be f ood costs, which include both our guest and crew food accrued related to our contingencies.
all such revisions in our costs, and estimates could materially impact our results of operations o ther ship operating costs, which include repairs and and financial position.
maintenance, including minor improvements and drydock expenses, port costs, entertainment, insurance, and RESULTS OF OPERATIONS all other shipboard operating costs and expenses.
We earn our cruise revenues primarily from the following: For segment information related to our revenues, expenses, sales of passenger cruise tickets and, in some cases, the operating income and other financial information see note 11 sale of air and other transportation to and from our ships.
in the accompanying financial statements.
the cruise ticket price includes accommodations, most meals, some non-alcoholic beverages, entertainment and many onboard activities, and Carnival Corporation & plC | 35 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued Selected Information and Non-GAAP Financial measures Selected information was as follows: Years Ended november 30, 2007 2006 2005 passengers carried in thousands.................................................... 7,672 7,008 6,848 a a occupancy percentage............................................................. 105.6 % 106.
6% b Fuel cost per metric ton........................................................... $ 361 $ 334 $ 259 a Occupancy percentage includes the three ships chartered to the Military Sealift Command in connection with our Hurricane Katrina relief efforts in the first quarter of 2006 and the fourth quarter of 2005 at 100%.
b Fuel cost per metric ton is calculated by dividing the cost of our fuel by the number of metric tons consumed.
81 a ALBDs is a standard measure of passenger capacity for the period.
It assumes that each cabin we offer for sale accommodates two passengers.
ALBDs are computed by multiplying passenger capacity by revenue-producing ship operating days in the period.
36 | Carnival Corporation & plC offset by $21 million of lower dry-dock costs as fewer ships Fiscal 2007 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 2006 went into dry-dock in 2007 compared to 2006. net cruise Revenues costs per alBD as measured on a constant dollar basis net cruise revenues increased $987 million, or 10.
4% dollar basis, net cruise costs per alBD, excluding fuel costs increase in alBDs between 2007 and 2006 accounted for were up 1.
Gross cruise costs $772 million of the increase, and the remaining $215 million increased $997 million, or 12.
88 billion was from increased net revenue yields, which increased 2.
88 billion in 2006 for largely the same reasons as net in 2007 compared to 2006 gross revenue yields increased cruise costs.
net revenue yields increased in 2007 primarily due other non-cruise operating and selling and administrative to the weaker U. S. dollar relative to the Euro and Sterling expenses increased $19 million, or 4.
1%, to $486 million in and higher onboard guest spending, partially offset by slightly 2007 from $467 million in 2006 primarily due to the increase lower occupancy.
net revenue yields as measured on a conin the number of cruise tours sold.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $113 milthis decrease in constant dollar net revenue yields was prilion, or 11.
10 billion in 2007 from $988 million in marily driven by the softer cruise ticket pricing from north 2006 largely due to the 8.
4% increase in alBDs through the american-sourced contemporary Caribbean cruises especially addition of new ships, the weaker U. S. dollar compared to the in the first half of 2007.
We believe this decrease in yields Euro and Sterling and additional ship improvement expenditures.
was primarily the result of a weaker U. S. economy, including the impact of higher fuel costs and interest rates, which Nonoperating Expense Income impacted demand and the lingering effects of the 2005 hurrinet interest expense, excluding capitalized interest, cane season, which was partially offset by the higher prices increased $21 million to $344 million in 2007 from $323 million we achieved from our European brands, also mostly in the first in 2006. this increase was primarily due to a $57 million half of 2007.
22 million, increase in interest expense from a higher level of average or 10.
42 billion in 2006 borrowings and a $6 million increase from higher average for largely the same reasons as net cruise revenues.
interest rates on average borrowings, partially offset by $33 onboard and other revenues included concessionaire million of higher interest income due to a higher average level revenues of $830 million in 2007 and $694 million in 2006. of invested cash and $9 million due to higher average interest onboard and other revenues increased in 2007 compared to rates on invested balances.
Capitalized interest increased $7 2006, primarily because of the 8.
4% increased alBDs and million during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher increased guest spending on our ships.
average levels of investment in ship construction projects.
other non-cruise revenues increased $20 million, or 3.
8%, other expenses in 2006 included a $10 million expense for to $553 million in 2007 from $533 million in 2006 primarily the write-down of a non-cruise investment, partially offset by due to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold and a $4 million gain on the subsequent sale of this investment.
Income Taxes income tax expense decreased by $23 million to $16 million Costs and Expenses in 2007 from $39 million in 2006 primarily because 2006 net cruise costs increased $763 million, or 13.
4%, to included $11 million of income tax expense for the Military $6.
4% Sealift Command charters and the reversal in 2007 of some increase in alBDs between 2007 and 2006 accounted for $476 million of the increase.
the balance of $287 million was uncertain income tax position liabilities, partially offset by from increased net cruise costs per alBD, which increased higher state income taxes in alaska.
7% in 2007 compared to 2006 gross cruise costs per alBD Fiscal 2006 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 2005 increased 3.
net cruise costs per alBD increased in 2007 primarily due to a weaker U. S. dollar relative to the Euro Revenues and Sterling, a $27 per metric ton increase in fuel cost to net cruise revenues increased $535 million, or 6.
2%, to $361 per metric ton in 2007, which resulted in an increase in $9.
6% fuel expense of $82 million compared to 2006, a $20 million increase in alBDs between 2006 and 2005 accounted for Merchant navy officers pension Fund expense and higher $398 million of the increase, and the remaining $137 million repair costs from ship incidents.
these increases were partially was from increased net revenue yields, which increased 1.
5% Carnival Corporation & plC | 37 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued other non-cruise operating and selling and administrative on both a current and constant dollar basis in 2006 compared expenses increased $63 million, or 15.
6%, to $467 million in to 2005 gross revenue yields increased by 1.
7% in current 2006 from $404 million in 2005 primarily due to the increase dollars.
net revenue yields increased in 2006 primarily from in the number of cruise tours sold.
higher cruise ticket prices, higher onboard revenues and, to a Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $86 lesser extent, a 0.
5%, to $988 million in 2006 from $902 million enues increased $680 million, or 6.
42 billion in 2005 largely due to the 4.
6% increase in alBDs through from $10.
74 billion in 2005 for largely the same reasons as net the addition of new ships, and additional ship improvement cruise revenues.
our 2006 cruise ticket prices for Caribbean itineraries were lower than in 2005, which were offset by price increases we Nonoperating Expense Income achieved primarily from our alaska and European cruises.
We net interest expense, excluding capitalized interest, was believe that this reduction in Caribbean pricing was the result $323 million in both 2006 and 2005. this flat interest expense of weaker consumer demand caused primarily from the lingerwas primarily due to lower average borrowings offsetting ing effects of the unusually strong 2005 hurricane season and the impact of higher average interest rates on borrowings.
higher fuel and other costs adverse impacts on our customers Capitalized interest increased $16 million during 2006 comdiscretionary income.
pared to 2005 primarily due to higher average levels of investonboard and other revenues included concession revenues ment in ship construction projects and higher average interest of $694 million in 2006 and $638 million in 2005. onboard and rates on borrowings.
other revenues increased in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily Income Taxes because of the 4.
6% increased alBDs and increased guest income tax expense decreased by $33 million to $39 million spending on our ships.
in 2006 from $72 million in 2005 primarily as a result of lower other non-cruise revenues increased $72 million, or 15.
6%, U. S. income taxes related to the MSC charter in 2006 comto $533 million in 2006 from $461 million in 2005 primarily pared to 2005, and the reversal in 2006 of previously recorded due to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold.
tax liabilities and deferred tax valuation allowances, which were Costs and Expenses no longer required based upon the results of tax authority net cruise costs increased $484 million, or 9.
6% increase in alBDs between 2005 and 2006 accounted for $238 million LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES of the increase whereas $246 million was from increased net cruise costs per alBD, which increased 4.
5% in 2006 comSources and Uses of Cash pared to 2005 gross cruise costs per alBD increased 3.
07 billion of net cash from operanet cruise costs per alBD increased primarily due to a $75 tions during fiscal 2007, an increase of $436 million, or 12.
0%, increase in fuel cost per metric ton, or 29.
0%, to $334 per compared to fiscal 2006.
We continue to generate substantial metric ton in 2006, which resulted in an additional $209 million cash from operations and remain in a strong financial position, of expense, and a $57 million increase in share-based comthus providing us with substantial financial flexibility in meetpensation expense, which was as the result of our adoption ing operating, investing and financing needs.
123 r see notes 2 and 12 in the accompanying During fiscal 2007, our net expenditures for capital projects financial statements.
this increase was partially offset by the were $3.
77 billion was spent for our non-recurrence in 2006 of a $23 million MnopF expense.
net ongoing new shipbuilding program, including $2.
06 billion for cruise costs per alBD as measured on a constant dollar basis the final delivery payments for Carnival Freedom, Emerald increased 4.
8% in 2006 compared to 2005. on a constant Princess, AIDAdiva, Costa Serena and Queen Victoria.
in addidollar basis, net cruise costs per alBD, excluding increased tion to our new shipbuilding program, we had capital expendifuel prices and incremental share-based compensation tures of $383 million for ship improvements and refurbishments expenses were flat compared to 2005.
Gross cruise costs and $161 million for alaska tour assets, cruise port facility increased $629 million, or 8.
88 billion developments and information technology assets.
25 billion in 2005 for largely the same reasons as net cruise costs.
38 | Carnival Corporation & plC During fiscal 2007, we borrowed $2.
65 billion of long-term repayment of 165 million of debt and $835 million upon debt, which included $1.
49 billion to pay part of Carnival maturity of our 3.
75% Senior and other fixed rate notes.
We Freedom, Emerald Princess, AIDAdiva and Queen Victoria also repaid net short-term borrowings of $330 million under purchase prices and ibero Cruises borrowed 185 million our commercial paper programs and short-term bank loans $274 million U. S. dollars at november 30, 2007, exchange during fiscal 2007.
Finally, we paid cash dividends of $990 rate under our Facility to finance a portion of its purchase million and purchased $326 million of Carnival Corporation price.
in addition during fiscal 2007, we repaid $1.
66 billion common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares in open market of long-term debt, which included $323 million for the early transactions during fiscal 2007.
b Represents cash outflows for certain of our long-term liabilities that could be reasonably estimated.
The primary outflows are for estimates of our employee benefit plan obligations, crew and guest claims, certain deferred income taxes, derivative contracts payable, and other long-term liabilities.
Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred income and certain deferred income taxes, have been excluded from the table as they do not require cash settlement in the future or the timing of the cash outflow cannot be reasonably estimated.
c Represents legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and other goods and services made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements.
Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice, and with or without a termination penalty.
Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation.
Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for termination of our contractual obligations.
d Fixed-rate interest payments represent cash outflows for fixed interest payments, including interest swapped from a variable-rate to a fixed-rate.
Variable-rate interest payments represent forecasted cash outflows for interest payments on variable-rate debt, including interest swapped from a fixed-rate to a variable-rate, using the November 30, 2007 interest rates for the remaining terms of the loans.
e Foreign currency payments are based on the November 30, 2007 exchange rates.
Carnival Corporation & plC | 39 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued financing from banks or through the issuance of debt and or in June 2006, the Boards of Directors authorized the repuroffering of equity securities in the public or private markets.
chase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival Corporation However, we cannot be certain that our future operating cash common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares subject to flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations or that we will certain restrictions.
on September 19, 2007, the Boards of be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary.
Directors increased the remaining $578 million authorization back to $1 billion.
the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued by our Boards OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEmENTS of Directors at any time.
the Carnival plc share repurchase We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, authorization requires annual shareholder approval.
During including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, the 2007 fourth quarter and from December 1, 2007 through certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, January 28, 2008 we purchased 4.
3 million that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or ordinary shares of Carnival plc, which are not registered under future material effect on our financial statements.
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange act at an average price of $43.
6 FOREIGN CURRENCY ExCHANGE RATE RISkS million shares, respectively of Carnival Corporation common stock at an average share price of $44.
63, respecour growing international business operations are contively.
Carnival plc ordinary shares are listed on the london ducted primarily through aiDa in Germany, Costa in Southern Stock Exchange.
at January 28, 2008 the remaining availabilEurope and China, ibero Cruises in Spain, p&o Cruises, ocean ity pursuant to our repurchase program was $788 million.
village and Cunard in the UK and p&o Cruises australia in at november 30, 2007, as adjusted for the $1.
50 billion australia, which subject us to an increasing level of foreign short-term revolving credit facilities we entered into in January currency exchange risk related to the Euro, Sterling and 2008, we had liquidity of $5.
31 billion, which consisted of australian dollar because these operations have either the $943 million of cash and cash equivalents, $1.
08 billion availEuro, Sterling or australian dollar as their functional currency.
able for borrowing under our Facility, $1.
50 billion under our accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations of the Euro, Sterling short-term revolving credit facilities and $1.
78 billion under or australian dollar against the U. S. dollar will affect our committed ship financing facilities.
Substantially all of our reported financial results since the reporting currency for our Facility matures in 2012. in addition, in June 2007 we entered consolidated financial statements is the U. S. dollar and the into an agreement to sell Cunard lines QE2 for delivery to the functional currency for our international operations is generally buyer in november 2008 for $100 million.
a key to our access the local currency.
any weakening of the U. S. dollar against to liquidity is the maintenance of our strong credit ratings.
these local functional currencies has the financial statement Based primarily on our historical results, current financial effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values reported for cruise condition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing revenues and cruise expenses in our Consolidated Stateliquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient ments of operations.
Strengthening of the U. S. dollar has to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service the opposite effect.
requirements, convertible debt redemptions, dividend payWe seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign ments, working capital and other firm commitments over the currency exchange rates through our normal operating and next several years.
in addition, based on our future forecasted financing activities, including netting certain exposures to operating results and cash flows for fiscal 2008, we expect take advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered to be in compliance with our debt covenants during 2008. appropriate, through the use of derivative and nonderivative However, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, financial instruments.
the financial impacts of these hedging as well as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by instruments are generally offset by corresponding changes various factors including, but not limited to, those factors in the underlying exposures being hedged.
our policy is to noted under Cautionary note Concerning Factors that May not use any financial instruments for trading or other specuaffect Future results.
to the extent that we are required, or lative purposes.
choose, to fund future cash requirements, including our future one of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than as disis related to our outstanding commitments under ship concussed above, we believe that we will be able to secure such struction contracts denominated in a currency other than the 40 | Carnival Corporation & plC currency hedges.
a portion of our net investment in Eurofunctional currency of the cruise brand that is expected to be denominated cruise operations effectively act as an economic operating the ship.
these foreign currency commitments are hedge against a portion of these Euro commitments.
accordaffected by fluctuations in the value of the functional currency ingly, a portion of any increase or decrease in our ship costs as compared to the currency in which the shipbuilding conresulting from changes in the exchange rates will be offset tract is denominated.
We use foreign currency swaps and by a corresponding change in the net assets of our Eurononderivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency denominated cruise operations.
Based upon a 10% hypothetiexchange rate risk from some of our ship construction concal increase or decrease in the november 30, 2007 U. S. dollar tracts see notes 2, 6 and 10 in the accompanying financial to the Euro foreign currency exchange rate, the cost of these statements.
accordingly, increases and decreases in the fair ships would decrease or increase by $320 million.
value of these foreign currency swaps offset changes in the fair in addition, at november 30, 2007 we have two Eurovalue of the foreign currency denominated ship construction denominated shipbuilding commitments for delivery in March commitments, thus resulting in the elimination of such risk.
05 billion assigned to Specifically, we have foreign currency swaps for one of our two of our Sterling functional currency brands for which we Euro-denominated shipbuilding contracts and a portion of have not entered into any foreign currency swaps.
at november 30, 2007, the fair the Sterling cost of these ships will increase or decrease value of these foreign currency swaps was an unrealized gain based upon changes in the exchange rate until the payments of $13 million which is recorded, along with an offsetting $13 are made under the shipbuilding contracts or we enter into million fair value liability related to our shipbuilding firm comforeign currency hedges.
Since the Euro to Sterling exchange mitments, on our accompanying 2007 balance sheet.
Based rate has traded in a narrow band for most of the last three upon a 10% strengthening or weakening of the Sterling and years, we have not yet hedged these Euro-denominated U. S. dollar compared to the Euro as of november 30, 2007, commitments.
Based upon a 10% hypothetical increase or assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, the decrease in the november 30, 2007 Sterling to Euro foreign estimated fair value of these foreign currency swaps would currency exchange rate, assuming the U. S. dollar exchange decrease or increase by $66 million, which would be offset rate remains constant, the cost of these ships would decrease by a decrease or increase of $66 million in the U. S. dollar or increase by $155 million.
value of the related foreign currency ship construction comour decisions regarding whether or not to hedge a given mitments resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
ship commitment are made on a case-by-case basis, taking in addition, we have 296 million of cash equivalents that into consideration the amount and duration of the exposure, are designated as a fair value hedge for a portion of a ship market volatility, exchange rate correlation, economic trends that is expected to operate in a U. S. dollar functional currency and other offsetting risks.
brand, which has resulted in a $44 million firm commitment the cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the gain.
Based upon a 10% strengthening or weakening of the future for our cruise lines who generate their cash flows in a U. S. dollar compared to the Euro cash equivalent balance as currency that is different than the shipyards operating currency, of november 30, 2007, assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, the estimated fair value of this cash equivalent generally the Euro, is expected to be affected by foreign curbalance would decrease or increase by $44 million, which rency exchange rate fluctuations.
Given the decline in the would be offset by a decrease or increase of $44 million in the U. S. dollar relative to the Euro over the past several years, the U. S. dollar balance of the related foreign currency ship conU.
S. dollar cost to order new cruise ships at current exchange struction commitment resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
if the U. S. dollar remains at at november 30, 2007, we have six Euro-denominated current levels or declines further, this may affect our ability shipbuilding commitments for delivery between June 2009 to order future new cruise ships for U. S. dollar functional and May 2011 aggregating 2.
16 billion assigned to three of currency brands.
our U. S. dollar functional currency brands for which we have We consider our investments in foreign subsidiaries to be not entered into any foreign currency swaps.
therefore, the denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a long-term U. S. dollar cost of these ships will increase or decrease based nature.
in addition to the net investment hedging strategy disupon changes in the exchange rate until the payments are cussed above, we also partially address these net investment made under the shipbuilding contracts or we enter into foreign currency exposures by denominating a portion of our debt Carnival Corporation & plC | 41 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued including the effect of foreign currency swaps, in our subsidSpecifically, we have interest rate swaps at november 30, iaries functional currencies generally the Euro or Sterling.
2007, which effectively changed $204 million of fixed rate Specifically, we have debt of $1.
89 billion in Euros and $457 debt to liBor-based floating rate debt.
in addition, we have million in Sterling and have $378 million of foreign currency interest rate swaps at november 30, 2007 which effectively swaps, whereby we have converted $378 million of U. S. dollar changed $16 million of EUriBor-based floating rate debt to debt into Euro debt, thus partially offsetting these foreign fixed rate debt.
the fair value of our debt and interest rate currency exchange rate risks.
at november 30, 2007, the fair swaps at november 30, 2007 was $9.
Based upon value of these foreign currency swaps was an unrealized loss a hypothetical 10% decrease or increase in the november 30, of $30 million, which is recorded in aoCi and offsets a portion 2007 market interest rates, assuming no change in currency of the gains recorded in aoCi upon translating these foreign exchange rates, the fair value of our debt and interest rate subsidiaries net assets into U. S. dollars.
Based upon a 10% swaps would increase or decrease by approximately $143 milhypothetical increase or decrease in the november 30, 2007 lion.
in addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or foreign currency exchange rates, assuming no changes in increase in the november 30, 2007 interest rates, our annual comparative interest rates, we estimate that these derivative interest expense on variable rate debt, including the effect contracts fair values would increase or decrease by $38 milof our interest rate swaps, would decrease or increase by lion, which would be offset by a decrease or increase of $38 approximately $13 million.
million in the U. S. dollar value of our net investments.
in addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% increase or Finally, during 2007, we entered into cash flow foreign decrease in Carnival Corporations november 30, 2007 comcurrency swaps that effectively converted $438 million of U. S. mon stock price, the fair value of our convertible notes would dollar fixed interest rate debt into 210 million fixed interest increase or decrease by approximately $102 million.
rate debt that is the functional currency of our operation that these hypothetical amounts are determined by considering has the obligation to repay this debt.
at november 30, 2007, the impact of the hypothetical interest rates and common the fair value of these foreign currency swaps was an unrealstock price on our existing debt and interest rate swaps.
this analysis does not consider the effects of the changes in the ized gain of $3 million.
level of overall economic activity that could exist in such environments or any relationships which may exist between INTEREST RATE RISkS interest rate and stock price movements.
Furthermore, since We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in interest substantially all of our fixed rate debt cannot currently be called rates through our investment and debt portfolio management or prepaid it is unlikely we would be able to take any signifistrategies, which includes purchasing high quality short-term cant steps in the short-term to mitigate our exposure in the investments with variable interest rates, and issuing substanevent of a significant decrease in market interest rates.
tial amounts of fixed rate debt instruments.
We continuously evaluate our debt portfolio, and make periodic adjustments to BUNkER FUEL PRICE RISkS the mix of floating rate and fixed rate debt based on our view of interest rate movements, through the use of interest rate We do not use financial instruments to hedge our exposure swaps.
at november 30, 2007 and 2006, 69% and 68% of to the bunker fuel price market risk.
We estimate that our fiscal the interest cost on our debt was fixed and 31% and 32% 2008 fuel cost would increase or decrease by approximately was variable, including the effect of our interest rate swaps, $3.
3 million for each $1 per metric ton increase or decrease in respectively.
our average bunker fuel price.
