AUGUST TOP Synovate opens its first The acquisition of ION Patrick Glydon is 1,000 four international centres Global strengthens appointed as CFO of excellence for dataIsobars operations in of Synovate.
He joins Synovates fourth survey of Asias top processing.
Based in Hong Kong, Korea from Colt Telecom, Bulgaria, Egypt, and San Francisco where he served as 1,000 brands identifies Malaysia and China, all trend-setting hubs deputy Group CFO Nokia as the top brand the four centres offer for digital innovation.
having held senior across the continent, services to Synovates IONs services include positions in global followed by Sony, global network at a mobile, web strategy, finance and change Colgate and Cocalower cost than in many site construction, management roles in Cola.
consulting, design and the leisure, consumer second in China, This is a core element of interactive marketing.
goods and TMT third in India and first Synovates SmartWork sectors.
Business review Synovate EMEA Insight: Revenue grew to 206.4 million 2006: 183.2 million up 14.3% at constant currency and 12.7% at reported rates.
Jacky Cheung, director of Revenue growth in EMEA was powered by a very good year in qualitative research at Central and Eastern Europe and in the Middle East.
We delivered Synovate China, asks exceptional growth in a number of these markets, with Russia, where next for Chinas the Czech and Slovak Republics, Bulgaria and Hungary standing 1.3 billion consumers?
out in Central and Eastern Europe, and the UAE, Egypt and Tunisia in the Middle East and Africa.
In the larger markets of Western Europe, we delivered good growth in Germany, where our global client relationship programme delivered gains in the automotive Theres a gold rush mentality in China right now.
The UK market remained highly competitive, but we made People can be very materialistic, single-minded and good progress being named to major client rosters, which we at times almost ruthless in pursuit of making money.
expect to deliver further success in future years.
Synovate UKs We have become a nation of triallists.
Theres an office move in April will see its 500 people in a single site for obsession with novelty: people are eager to try new the first time.
For brands, this is a challenge.
The market is During the year we acquired Interview-NSS in the Netherlands, flooded with tempting new products from home and and its leading product in affluent media research, the European abroad, and as a result brand loyalty is low.
Media and Marketing Service EMS.
Alongside Synovates PAX, Theres an expectation that higher prices mean higher our existing high net worth media survey in Asia, the Middle East quality.
But this is tempered in rural areas, where limited and Latin America, we now have coverage in more countries than disposable incomes put a cap on what people can afford any other research business.
The acquisition of Metra Seis in Spain to buy.
strengthened Synovate Spain with greater scale and complements our existing position in qualitative with a strong quantitative Its difficult to predict how this market will evolve its practice.
In December, the acquisition of SPSL, a UK-based leader moving forward in leaps and bounds, rather than step in footfall measurement and analysis across Europe, extended our by step.
This is most evident in the automotive sector and reach in the retail sector and brought in new proprietary online internet users have doubled from 100 million to technologies with the potential for wider international application.
over 200 million in under two years.
SPSL monitors over a billion visits to over 4,600 retail premises Perhaps all marketers in China should heed the wise annually in the UK alone.
words of Deng Xiao Ping: Feel for the stones when youre crossing a river.
In other words, take careful steps and keep monitoring the changes.
34 Aegis Group plc Posterscope and Vizeum collaborate on a unique gallery project for Coca-Cola GB in London entitled The Coke Side of Life.
Renowned artist Peter Blake creates a pop art work on a 20- 1IN3 foot canvas as part of an out-ofhome exhibition to celebrate Synovates survey of the US blogging scene shows that 80% of Americans know what a blog is, 50% have visited blogs, summer on the South Bank of the Thames with Coca-Cola.
and 8% publish their own blog.
Loyalty to specific blogs is The following month, Vizeum also fairly strong with 46% of blog readers saying that they visit the same blogs regularly versus 54% who instead usually is confirmed as the winner of the Coca-Cola Companys UK surf for new and different ones.
And almost one-third of consumers have clicked on an ad while reading a blog.
Synovate Americas Insight: We grew revenue in Synovate Americas to 132.5 million 2006: 134.1 million, an increase of 7.3% at constant currency Jan Hofmeyr, director of and a decrease of 1.2% at reported rates, reflecting the effect of Synovates brand and the weak US dollar on our results in translation.
The Americas communications practice, region as a whole achieved good organic growth.
We delivered wants insight to deliver a strong competitive performance in the US, our largest single market, where underlying growth was mid-single digit.
new ways of looking The technology and telecommunications segments, along with financial services and healthcare, including medical insurance, were all particularly strong.
Latin America grew well, as it Insight is generally about trying to establish what clients becomes an increasing focus of attention for multi-national think they need to know.
brands, as well as local business.
We saw very good revenue But thats boring.
Discovering new ways of looking, growth across Mexico, Brazil and Argentina and profits remained on the other hand, and helping clients to see their healthy despite continuing investment in expansion.
marketing landscape in ways that were previously Following the year-end, we acquired CIMA Group, a leading beyond their imagination that isnt boring.
Redefining independent with operations in six Latin American markets, how marketers think is exciting.
taking Synovate into a total of 57 countries worldwide.
We can use technology to break down the silos between Synovate Asia-Pacific behavioural and attitudinal measurement.
And we have Revenue at Synovate Asia-Pacific grew 18.8% at constant currency the vision to do so.
Combining the knowledge of how to 94.1 million 2006: 83.9 million and 12.2% at reported many people went to a store with an understanding of rates.
Favourable market conditions and Synovates wellwhy they went there is valuable information.
Was it established presence contributed to another good year of growth because it stocked the brands they wanted, or did they across the emerging economies of Asia-Pacific.
We had a further buy the brands that it stocked?
Insight today has two excellent year in China, where we are the leader in custom market main drivers and they end at the same point.
This remains our third largest market and we conducted First its getting harder and harder to persuade people over one million interviews there in the course of the year.
So we need to make surveys was a more difficult year in some of the regions more mature shorter.
But clients still want the same depth of markets, such as Hong Kong and Taiwan, but we saw an information.
improvement in performance in Japan.
And clients budgets are under pressure.
So they want We opened a full-service office in New Zealand, where our more insights for less money.
Therefore, the next place for presence had previously been only through Synovate Aztec, market research to go is really efficient metrics that deliver and added to it with the acquisition of leading independent value for money without losing validity.
That spirit informs our approach.
Innovation in measuring attitudinal equity means we can now establish customer commitment and loyalty more efficiently than anyone else.
Our eyes are firmly set on the research methods of the future.
