Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 63 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Workspace Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices These parent company financial statements have been prepared Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company information and explanations which we considered necessary in financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally assurance that the parent company financial statements and the Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free Directors Responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report company financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Remuneration Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with In our opinion: Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 31 March 2007: agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors 1985: and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' the parent company financial statements.
Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of  LLP the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not London received all the information and explanations we require for our 11 June 2007 audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Report of the Directors, Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Group financial statements and related notes, the Shareholder Reporting and the Additional Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
