Safety, health and the environment Croda International safety, health and the environment SHE policy Croda International Plc is a manufacturer of speciality chemicals with business sectors for the Consumer Care and Industrial Specialities markets currently employing approximately 3,700 people worldwide.
Tree planting in India on World Environment Day.
The Company operates its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We strive to provide the resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
The Group controls its business by the delegation Indicators of SHE performance of much of its management responsibility, including The Group has published annual safety, health and It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of safety, health and the environment is vital SHE matters, to its site heads and senior managers.
environmental objectives and targets since 2001. to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
The overall strategy, development of policy and The acquisition of Uniqema in September 2006 had review of SHE performance within the Group is a marked effect on many aspects of the Croda group.
Principles: controlled by the Group SHE Steering Committee.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and work 5.
We will continue to search out new ways of Although there are many products and processes in The Group SHE department assists in setting related ill health are preventable and we manage conserving all the natural resources used in common there are also significant differences such standards, providing guidance, brokering best our business with this aim, including the provision our processes.
as the addition of high volume fatty acid manufacture practice and auditing the sites against international of adequate resources for the prevention of major 6.
We will continue to innovate in order to improve to the product profile.
standards as well as Croda internal standards.
our products and processes so that their effect As a result the manufactured tonnage has increased In 2007 a new Group SHE Manual was produced 2.
Because we are human, mistakes can be on safety, health and the environment is reduced.
Since all the Croda targets are to combine the best practices available from Croda made: but because we are committed, intelligent 7.
We will continue to improve communication and normalised to the manufactured tonnage this has and Uniqema following the acquisition of Uniqema human beings, we investigate to identify the basic the exchange of views with employees, employee a large effect on the performance target statistics.
This document provides the causes and take action to prevent these mistakes representatives, customers, contractors, suppliers, framework upon which the individual site SHE being repeated.
neighbours and any other individual or organisation As a result of these factors Croda has decided to management systems are based.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all affected by our business.
rebase the targets for the combined Group on 2006 audited for compliance with this Manual and all national regulations but in addition we set our own data and to review all the targets for the next four Croda manufacturing sites have the objective of We have assessed the significant safety, health demanding internal corporate standards on matters years to the end of 2010.
2007 is the first year that certification to BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS and environmental hazards posed by the Companys relating to safety, health and the environment and the former Uniqema sites have been included in 18001 by 2010. activities, and an appropriate set of arrangements endeavour to comply with them throughout our the reported data.
has been implemented to control these hazards.
The results of SHE audits are used to focus the effectiveness of these arrangements is monitored and Where necessary these objectives and targets have Group SHE initiatives and the annual Group SHE 4.
Site management teams within the Company are reviewed on a regular basis with action taken to redress been re-based on current operations manufacturing objectives.
The audit process, used by the Group measured for their contribution to the continuous any deficiencies and ensure continuous improvement.
SHE department to audit the manufacturing sites, improvement of safety, health and environmental has been externally validated by BSI in 2004 as being in performance in their area of responsibility.
The 2006 baseline data includes eight months when accordance with BS EN ISO 19011 auditing guidelines Individual employees each have a responsibility Mike Humphrey the Uniqema sites were under ICI control.
Crodas for quality environmental management systems.
to participate in and contribute to the improvement Group Chief Executive different and, perhaps, more focused approach Director responsible for SHE of corporate SHE performance.
to the stated metrics means that the comparative data may be flawed between 2006 and 2007.
12 Safety, health and the environment Safety, health and the environment 13 Safety, health and the environment Indicators of SHE performance continued SHE management Waste disposal Objective: Target: Objective: Target: To continually improve the effectiveness of our All original Croda manufacturing sites to be certified To minimise the quantities of waste disposed Based on 2006, to reduce waste to landfill kg tonne SHE management systems.
All former Uniqema to landfill.
manufactured by 5% each year 20% overall until manufacturing sites to be certified to BS EN ISO the end of 2010.
The waste data relates to waste generated by the manufacturing operations.
One off disposals of waste not All original Croda sites are certified to BS EN ISO 14001.
Five original Croda sites Chanac, Ditton, Hull, Mill Hall directly associated with the manufacturing process, for example, construction excavations or contaminated and Rawcliffe Bridge became certified to BS OHSAS 18001 during the year.
In all six sites have been certified land remediation, are excluded.
In 2007 waste disposed to landfill per manufactured tonne reduced by 3.9%.
and four remain to be certified.
The former Uniqema site at Cikarang became certified to both BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 during the year.
In all two former Uniqema sites have been certified and ten remain to be accredited.
Waste water discharges Objective: Target: To reduce the environmental impact the Group has All manufacturing sites to achieve greater than 97.5% Energy consumption on controlled waters.
compliance with their effluent discharge consents in Objective: Target: every year and for year on year continuous improvement To continually improve the energy efficiency Based on 2006, to improve energy efficiency towards 100% compliance.
GJ tonne manufactured at all manufacturing sites by 2% each year 8% overall until the end of 2010.
In 2007 the compliance with our effluent discharge consents improved from 91.0% to 94.5%.
This represents a significant step on the way to achieving our target.
In 2007 the Group improved its energy efficiency per tonne by 0.5%.
This was achieved during the substantial restructuring of the manufacturing operations during which time Croda withdrew from some low margin business and manufacturing output fell by 4.9%.
Overall energy use reduced by 5.4%.
Consumption of mains water Objective: Target: Continued progress with energy reduction is demonstrated by our continued compliance with the energy To reduce the Group requirements for mains water.
Based on 2006, all manufacturing sites to reduce the 3 reduction targets of UK Climate Change Agreements and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Croda already use of mains water m tonne manufactured by 2.5% generates 0.6% of its own energy from sustainable sources and new initiatives in 2008 are expected to per year 10% overall until the end of 2010. increase this substantially in the next few years.
In 2007 the mains water used per manufactured tonne increased by 4.8%.
Overall mains water used decreased by 0.3%.
Air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs Objective: Target: To minimise the mass of VOCs released to air from Based on 2006, all manufacturing sites to reduce our processes.
VOC emissions kg tonne manufactured by 5% per year 20% overall until the end of 2010.
In 2007 there was a 7.2% increase in the amount of VOCs per tonne released.
The increase was due to greater demand for the remaining products which require the use of low boiling solvents in their manufacture.
The VOC losses amount to less than 0.05% of our manufactured output.
14 Safety, health and the environment Safety, health and the environment 15 Artists impression of the wind turbine in position at our Hull site.
The turbine will generate a significant proportion of the sites required electricity.
Safety, health and the environment SHE initiatives 2007 The impact of REACH legislation on Croda Accidents and enforcement action Summary In 2007 there was an increase in the reportable Croda has established a process to ensure all REACH The key elements of the REACH regulation are: accident rate to 0.29 per 100,000 man hours.
The legislation requirements will be met and the operability A single regulatory system for existing and Group received one notice of violation in the USA for of the business will not be affected.
non compliance with nickel levels in the waste water All chemicals manufactured in the EU or The direct costs to Croda will be minimal in 2008, discharge and was fined $15,000.
This waste water imported into the EU at levels greater than rising to over 1m per year between 2009 and 2018. discharge was owned by Croda but also contained 1 tonne per annum will require registration waste water from a company SPI with whom the What is REACHby the legal entity manufacturing or importing site was shared.
SPI accepted that they caused the the chemical.
The European Commission White Paper Strategy problem and agreed to pay the fine.
There were no for Future Chemicals Policy was published on 27 There will be some exemptions including prosecutions in 2007.
This policy review was prompted by polymers and other substances covered by criticism of the effectiveness of existing legislation other regulatory controls.
Soil and groundwater investigations for chemical control in the European Union EU and The Group believes it has already identified its major For existing chemicals, the obligations of growing concern in some quarters about the lack of liabilities with regard to historical contamination REACH will be phased over an 11 year period.
information on the hazards of chemicals and their of the ground and groundwater.
To date, remedial Mandatory information on all chemicals with the Energy efficiency has been potential impact on human health and the environment.
strategies are either in place or being developed for improved at our Hull site by extent of information and testing linked to quantity the installation of energy the cost effective control of this contamination at all of material manufactured or imported.
This will A new regulation known as REACH Registration, monitoring equipment.
require additional testing, including animal testing.
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals resulted from this policy review.
Strict deadlines imposed for information on Indicators of process safety performance It came into force on 1 June 2007. chemicals and sanctions for non compliance.
Croda recognises that whilst the personal injury The manufacturer or importer to demonstrate accident rate is a useful indicator of SHE performance, This regulation has been adopted without modification that chemicals are adequately controlled through it is also important to monitor those events which might Crodas surfactants are used in the by each of the 27 member states of the EU.
It will formulation of high performance the entire chain of manufacture and use.
lead to process incidents and or loss of containment.
be administered by the central European Chemicals crop care products, delivering both Very infrequently these incidents can lead to environmental safety and stability.
Banning or restriction of the use for Agency in Helsinki and enforced nationally by catastrophic accidents and it is important that these chemicals of very high concern.
leading indicators are recognised so that action can be taken to prevent them from recurring.
It is effectively a concept which says we need to know more about the properties of chemicals and The Group has implemented a system for monitoring how their risks are managed through their lifecycle.
the performance of those engineering control measures which are critical to the safe operation of its hazardous processes.
The system was extended to the former Uniqema sites in the final quarter of 2007.
16 Safety, health and the environment Safety, health and the environment 17 Board ofdirectors Martin Flower Mike Humphrey Sean Christie BSc, FCMA, FCT Michael Buzzacott BA, FCCA David Dunn CA Stanley Musesengwa Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Independent non-executive director Senior Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Martin Flower was appointed to the Croda Mike Humphrey was appointed to the Sean Christie was appointed to the Michael Buzzacott was appointed to the David Dunn was appointed to the Croda Stanley Musesengwa joined the Tate & Board in May 2005 and became Chairman Croda Board in 1995 and became Group Croda Board as Group Finance Director Croda Board in August 2004 following his Board in 2000 and was appointed Senior Lyle Group in 1979 as a refinery manager at the end of September 2005.
He is Chief Executive at the beginning of 1999. in April 2006.
He previously held a retirement from BP, where he had spent Independent director and chairman of the and subsequently performed a number of chairman of the Nomination Committee He joined Croda in 1969 as a management number of senior finance positions in over 34 years.
At BP he held a number Remuneration Committee at the beginning different roles in Africa, before becoming and a member of the Remuneration trainee and was appointed Managing Northern Foods Plc and was Group of senior international roles including of 2002.
He has held a number of senior Regional Director, Tate & Lyle Africa in 1995.
He formerly held various Director of Croda Singapore in 1988, Finance Director from 1994 to 2004.
Assistant Co-ordinator Europe, Regional financial and general management In December 1999 he was appointed senior executive positions over 36 years Croda Application Chemicals in 1990 During 2007 he retired as Senior Finance and Control Director of Asia, positions with UK plcs.
He joined Scapa Chief Executive Officer of Tate & Lyle with Coats plc, culminating in a period and Croda Chemicals in 1991.
He is a Independent Director of KCOM Group Chief Executive Polymers and Olefins Group Plc in 1987 where he served as Europe.
He was appointed to the Tate & as Chairman before his retirement in member of the Nomination Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Division and finally Group Vice President Finance Director, Chief Executive and Lyle Board in April 2003 and took up the 2004, and he was Deputy Chairman and Cherry Valley Farms Ltd.
He was Chairman of non-executive Chairman prior to his position of Chief Operating Officer on Senior Independent Director of Severn Biofuels Corporation plc from March 2006 retirement in 2002.
He joined the Croda Board Trent Plc until June 2006.
He is currently until its re-registration in 2007 as a private as a non-executive director of SMG plc in May 2007. a non-executive director of The Morgan company, Earls Nook Limited, of which he is and is currently a non-executive director Crucible Company plc and Low & Bonar still a director.
He is a non-executive director of FirstGroup Plc and the non-executive PLC, and the Chairman of Alpha Group Plc.
of Rexam PLC and Scapa Group Plc.
Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
18 Board of directors Board of directors 19
