BUSINESS REVIEW 30 Financial and Treasury Review THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS TO OUTLINE KEY ASPECTS OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE OVER THE LAST YEAR AND OF ITS FINANCIAL POSITION.
PETER WILLIAMS ACCOUNTS This Financial Review focuses on the FINANCE DIRECTOR No new international financial reporting adjusted numbers, in addition to the standards are required to be adopted this statutory figures, because we believe the year.
This means that the accounts have alternative measures give a more been prepared without the need for any comparable indication of the Groups prior year adjustments, caused by changes underlying business performance.
We have, however, numbers are shown opposite.
provided further detail in response to developments in international accounting REVENUE practice and to a reporting statement, The Groups revenue in the year of 2,235 issued by the Accounting Standards Board million was 3% higher than the previous on retirement benefits.
There was underlying revenue growth the length of the Annual Report even from all of our divisions, after adjusting in further this year to 152 pages, compared the case of Northcliffe and DMG Information to 92 pages two years ago, the final year in their figures to exclude the impact of KEY FIGURES which the Group Accounts were prepared acquisitions and disposals.
We estimate under UK accounting standards.
that underlying revenue growth was 5%.
REVENUE We are conscious that small shareholders The analysis of revenue by activity, 3% may not wish to receive the full report with illustrated in graph 1, shows that there has all of its long and complex disclosures.
been little overall change in the shape of OPERATING PROFIT For this reason, we have for the first time the Group in terms of revenues.
However, if produced a separate Annual Review, Associated Northcliffe Digitals activities are incorporating a summary set of financial excluded from our newspaper divisions, the 7% statements as an alternative for those percentage of revenue from newspapers STATUTORY OPERATING shareholders who have chosen to receive it.
Graph 2 PROFIT shows the geographic split of revenue.
2007 2006 m m Change This shows that 74% of revenue by source was generated by UK businesses, compared 7% Revenue 2,235 2,176 3% with 80% in 2003, but we estimate that Operating profit 322.4 300.4 7% PROFIT BEFORE TAX approximately 45% of overall Group income Income from joint is derived from revenues invoiced in ventures and US dollars.
associates 6.0 7.1 11% Investment income 1.5 3.2 OPERATING PROFIT EARNINGS PER SHARE Net interest payable 39.7 48.3 The Groups operating profit amounted to 322 million, an increase of 7% on the Other finance 6% charges 2.8 2.7 equivalent figure for last year.
This figure is stated before charging 28 million as Discontinued items 0.8 exceptional operating costs.
This charge Profit before tax 288.2 259.7 11% comprised reorganisation costs within Adjusted earnings Adjusted operating profit Associated, Northcliffe, Euromoney and before exceptional items and per share 49.3p 46.4p 6% dmg world media.
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 31 Financial and Treasury Review continued The charge for amortisation of intangible and to the absence of a dividend from assets rose by 31 million to 82 million, Reuters Group plc resulting from the sale primarily due to the acquisition of Metal of the Groups remaining interest last year.
EUROMONEY SHOWED STRONG GROWTH, ENHANCED BY A Bulletin which counted for 16 million of FIRST CONTRIBUTION FROM the increase.
The Group has also made Net interest payable excluding dividend METAL BULLETIN.
an impairment charge of 53 million, income and deemed finance charges but principally relating to a number of including interest receivable fell by consumer and gift shows, its investment in 8 million to 40 million.
Higher interest Simply Switch and an additional impairment income from swap premia more than offset in respect of Loot.
After deducting these the impact of increased interest rates charges, the Groups reported operating payable on higher average net debt.
profit rose by 6% to 159 million.
OTHER INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS The analysis of operating profit by activity is The Group recorded other exceptional shown in graph 3.
This shows strong growth gains and losses of 36 million, compared from Euromoney Institutional Investor, to 189 million last year.
This comprised despite a 5 million increase in the charge mainly an exceptional profit of 42 million for its capital appreciation plan, enhanced on the deemed disposal of a portion of our by a first contribution from the Metal holding in Euromoney which issued new Bulletin businesses, and smaller rises from shares as part of its funding of the our local media, exhibitions and business acquisition of Metal Bulletin.
This gain was information divisions, as well as a reduction offset partly by a charge of 24 million, in losses by our Australian radio division.
relating to our investment in GCap Media These increases, totalling 39 million, were plc, charged to reserves in previous years, 53% 53% OF THIS YEARS offset partly by a fall of 16 million in the but now required to be recognised through OPERATING PROFIT IS profits of our national newspaper division, the Income Statement in accordance FROM BUSINESSES due to the competitive situation in the with IAS 39.
London newspaper market and to a loss by Teletext of 4 million, and by central The Group generated 10.3 million of costs which were 1 million higher.
Within foreign exchange losses on hedges of intranational newspapers, the operating profits group financing.
This foreign exchange loss of Associated Northcliffe Digital fell by is excluded from adjusted profit because an 2 million due to significant revenue equal and opposite credit is excluded from investment in developing its businesses.
In addition the 4.7 million foreign exchange loss on intraStrong growth by our business-to-business group financing, premium on repurchase operations, especially Euromoney, means of bonds and the change in fair value of that 53% of this years operating profit has put options are also excluded from been generated other than from newspaper adjusted profits.
publishing, up from 47% last year.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Statutory profit before tax for the year of The Groups share of the results of its 142 million was 54% lower than last years joint ventures and associates fell by 1 figure.
The equivalent figure in 2006 was million to 6 million.
The elimination of boosted by the profit of 175 million on the Northcliffes digital associates and an disposal of Aberdeen Journals and Study improvement in the performance of DMG Group.
Excluding amortisation and Radio Australias joint ventures was more impairment and exceptional items, the than offset by RMSs Japanese associate adjusted profit before tax figure was 288 becoming a subsidiary and a lower million, up 11% on last year.
TAXATION NET FINANCING COSTS The tax charge of 20 million represents Adjusted operating profit Dividend income fell by 2 million due mainly 14.3% of profit before tax and 7.2% of profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment to a lower distribution by GCap Media plc before amortisation and impairment.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 32 Financial and Treasury Review continued GRAPH 1 REVENUE BY ACTIVITY M THE PERCENTAGE OF NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS AND RELATED REVENUE FROM NEWSPAPERS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL HAS FALLEN TO 58% FROM LOCAL MEDIA INVESTOR RADIO 67% IN 2003.
1,000 800 600 400 200 0 03 04 05 06 07 GRAPH 2 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA M UK NORTH AMERICA REST OF EUROPE REST OF THE WORLD 45% 1,800 WE ESTIMATE THAT APPROXIMATELY 45% OF 1,600 OVERALL GROUP INCOME 1,400 IS DELIVERED FROM US$ REVENUE.
1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 03 04 05 06 07 GRAPH 3 OPERATING PROFIT BY ACTIVITY M NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES AND RELATED ACTIVITIES EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL RADIO LOCAL MEDIA INVESTOR UNALLOCATED CENTRAL COSTS 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 03 04 05 06 07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 33 Financial and Treasury Review continued The adjusted tax on adjusted profits 388 million, the largest items being the GRAPH 4 CASH FLOWS amounted to 76 million and the resulting purchase of Metal Bulletin, 165 million rate is 26.3%, up from 23.9% last year of which was funded by debt, Northcliffes DISPOSALS 56M EQUITY due mainly to a higher proportion of profits acquisition of titles in the South of England SERVICING -62M OPERATING ACTIVITIES 391M TAXATION -44M coming from the United States, with no for 64 million and Landmarks acquisition HEDGING OTHER -9M ACQUISITIONS -388M more accounting benefit from unrecognised of Quest for 36 million.
Disposal proceeds OWN SHARES -30M CAPITAL US tax losses.
This is still below the UK amounted to 56 million, principally from DEBT SERVICING -54M EXPENDITURE -72M corporate tax rate, where the Group the sale of Buy & Sell, Northcliffes retail 700 currently makes most of its profit.
The operations and non-core Euromoney Groups effective tax rate in the UK is higher businesses.
600 than this due to expenditure disallowed for 500 tax purposes.
Over the next few years the The Groups interest cover, calculated as 400 adjusted tax rate is still expected to continue the ratio of adjusted profits before interest to increase to around 30%, despite the and depreciation EBITDA to net interest 300 reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax payable, was 9.8 times this year, up from 200 from 30% to 28% from next April.
7.8 in 2006 and above the Groups current 100 target of six times.
The Groups ratio of Exceptional tax amounted to a net credit year end net debt to EBITDA was 2.4 times.
0 of 55 million, including the 10.3 million The Groups Standard & Poors credit Inflows 447m Outflows -659m tax credit on exchange differences on rating remains at BBB, as does our rating GRAPH 5 intra-group financings.
RATIO OF EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION TO NET INTEREST PAYABLE M PENSIONS At the year end, the Group had 839 million 10 The Groups defined benefit pension of Bonds due for repayment in 2013, 2018, schemes have moved from a deficit of 2021 and 2027.
It also had 120 million of 8 151 million last year end to a surplus of committed banking facilities available to 6 81 million as at 30th September, 2007 it until late summer 2008 and 270 million calculated in accordance with IAS 19. until September 2009.
In June, the Group 4 This change is primarily due to investment refinanced its short term debt by issuing returns and is despite a significant 200 million 6.375% Bonds due 2027.
This 2 strengthening of mortality assumptions.
proved to be excellent timing, occurring 0 before the liquidity crunch that emerged 03 04 05 06 07 CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT in August.
Consequently, the Group has Net debt increased during the year from sufficient committed debt facilities to GRAPH 6 738 million to 950 million, an increase meet its foreseeable requirements.
It had MATURITY PROFILE OF GROUP NET DEBT M of 212 million.
Total acquisition spend, surplus committed facilities of 240 million 1,000 capital expenditure, taxation, interest, at the year end.
dividends and share repurchases were 800 offset partly by operating cash flows and TREASURY POLICIES 600 disposals of investments and businesses.
The following paragraphs are a summary of the treasury policies of the Group and, 400 Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources where appropriate, of the Company.
DMGT of free cash flows and use of those funds aims to have sufficient liquidity to meet 200 during the year.
The net cash inflow from both operational and capital cash flows and 0 operations, joint ventures and investment to impose the minimum cash constraints was 391 million.
In general, the Groups on the management and operation of the 11 13 15 17 19 21 07 09 profits are converted rapidly into cash Group.
Financial instruments, including Year ending September and cash generation was strong across derivatives, are used by the Group in order the Group, with 99% of profits converted to manage the principal financial risks that into cash.
arise in the course of business.
These risks are liquidity or funding risk, foreign Capital expenditure of 72 million was lower exchange risk, interest rate risk and than last years level, reflecting lower counterparty risk.
The instruments are Adjusted operating profit payments on the construction of Associateds used within the parameters set by the before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment new plant in Didcot, Oxfordshire, as it Finance Committee of the Board, and are of intangible assets.
Acquisitions cost not traded for a profit.
The Groups priority Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 34 Financial and Treasury Review continued is to address the economic impact of management maximum flexibility to run financial risks using the most efficient or the business without the distraction of appropriate approach.
This may result in meeting short-term financing IFRS accounting volatility.
OVERVIEW b Foreign Exchange Risk The Group has adequate committed debt i Transaction Risk finance to meet current trading Most of the Groups businesses do not requirements.
Foreign exchange risk on transact cross-border: hence multitransactions is not a large issue for the currency transaction risk is not substantial.
Group as the majority of its businesses The main exception is Euromoney which operate in the country in which they are has net receipts in US dollars and net located.
In principle, the underlying payments in sterling and Canadian dollars.
currency of net debt after taking account Euromoney has a series of US dollar of derivatives is managed in proportion to forward sale contracts in place up to the EBITDA in each currency.
A growing three years forward to meet its sterling proportion of the Groups profits are earned outgoings.
Other than Euromoney there in foreign currencies.
The Groups assets were no significant foreign currency are only partially hedged by its foreign forward contracts in existence that hedge currency debt, and economically its revenues or costs.
The sterling value of earnings are exposed to declines in value capital expenditure in foreign currency is of the US dollar in particular.
The Group fixed using forward currency purchases.
has a prudent level of fixed interest rate debt to reduce the impact of interest rate Tax on non-trading exchange rate fluctuations.
movements is hedged, using cross currency swaps and forward currency a Liquidity Risk contracts.
The Groups acquisition It is the Groups policy to have sufficient financing structures may give rise to surplus borrowing headroom such that its foreign exchange gain or losses in the UK development is not constrained.
The Group which are either taxable or tax deductible.
is funded by a mixture of equity, debt and The Group enters into market derivatives retained profits.
Debt consists mainly to hedge this exposure in economic terms.
of committed bank facilities and bonds.
However, IAS 39 prohibits such items from The bank facilities provide the Group with being shown net in the tax line and as a flexibility for operational requirements and result increased volatility is introduced in acquisitions.
Uncommitted and overdraft the income statement.
This years profit facilities are also utilised.
The bonds before taxation has been reduced by 10 currently in issue consist of four sterling million 2006 17 million increase in Eurobonds.
Maturities of debt are relation to these structures and tax payable maximised and spread in order to avoid has been reduced by a similar amount.
the requirement for significant repayments Both have been removed in arriving at at any point in time, as shown in Graph 6. adjusted profits.
Surplus funds are generally used to pay down debt.
If temporary surpluses arise, ii Translation Exposure they are generally deposited in money Borrowings are principally incurred in market accounts with banks that provide sterling, with lesser amounts in US dollars bilateral credit lines.
Generally, the proportion of foreign currency debt after Covenants on debt instruments are kept allowing for any hedging instrument to a minimum, even if this results in to total net debt is managed to be marginally higher interest costs.
External approximately equal to the proportion of finance is unsecured and is usually an foreign EBITDA, compared to total Group obligation of the Company or its immediate EBITDA.
This is expected to continue.
A subsidiary, rather than of trading substantial proportion of non-sterling debt subsidiaries.
This gives operating liabilities are created through the use of Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 35 Financial and Treasury Review continued foreign exchange derivatives and treated as e Debt Levels net investment hedges.
The consequence The Group currently aims to have a 6:1 of this policy is that the Groups significant ratio of EBITDA to net interest costs and foreign earnings are not hedged back to seeks to ensure that the ratio of net debt to sterling.
EBITDA does not normally exceed 2.5:1.
It is believed that this achieves close to the iii Economic Exposure optimum level of gearing for the Group, but A substantial proportion of the Groups leaves it with sufficient headroom should value relates to foreign subsidiaries, in the it desire to increase its debt levels without US in particular.
The foreign currency debt reducing the Groups quoted debt below described above is only a partial hedge of investment grade.
As such the ratio will this economic exposure.
not be met consistently, but will define the medium-term target level of net debt.
iv Netting The Group may offset currency risks GOING CONCERN on trading, capital expenditure, tax and The Directors have continued to adopt the borrowings and only hedge the net going concern basis for the preparation of exposure.
This may result in not obtaining the accounts.
This has been done since, IFRS hedge accounting.
after considering relevant information, they have a reasonable expectation that the c Interest Rate Risk Company and the Group have adequate The Group aims to have approximately 70% resources to continue in operational of forecast net debt to 80% of target net existence for the foreseeable future.
debt as fixed interest rate liabilities.
It aims to achieve this ratio over the medium term PETER WILLIAMS and it is applied to each of the Groups Finance Director main currencies.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates.
Borrowings are made in either fixed or floating rates.
Interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, and options are used to help attain the Groups target level of fixed interest rate debt.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
At the year end, fixed interest rate debt represented approximately 90% of total net debt.
Options are not treated as effective hedges under IFRS.
d Counterparty Risk Counterparties and their credit ratings are regularly reviewed by Group Treasury.
The Group has counterparty limits for banks with long term credit ratings of AA or better, and a lower limit for single A rated banks.
Typically this is banks that extend credit facilities to the Group.
The Group does not expect any counterparties to be unable to meet their obligations.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
