Chief Financial Officers operating review Dave Sherriffs To review the underlying performance of the business, the following adjustments have been made below: Unless otherwise indicated, exceptional items are excluded from the analysis.
Growth percentages over FY2006 are adjusted for the impact of currency movements.
No adjustment is made in the comparisons for acquisitions made during the current or prior period as these are not considered material to the comparisons.
Revenue growth percentages are reflected before adjusting for inter-company revenue.
INCOME STATEMENT SUMMARY Revenue for the year to 30 September 2007 was $3,773.2 million, an increase of 19.5% over the prior year.
This growth was predominantly organic, with acquisitions having no material impact during the period.
Revenue growth from Asia, Europe and Middle East and Africa was particularly strong.
Gross profit for the year was $813.0 million, up 23.4%, displaying a 0.4% improvement in gross margin to 21.5%.
Strong growth in Services revenue was the main reason for the improved blended gross margin.
In the regions, gross margins in Asia and the Americas strengthened, while Europes gross margins also recovered compared to the prior year.
16 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 one and one make many our financial track record speaks volumes about our experience in the industry Overhead growth of 18.7% to $682.0 million was partly Property revaluation and other gains and losses included the result of the increased volumes in the business, and a gain of $22.2 million relating to the revaluation of a portion of the South African property asset.
also continued investment by the Group in skills, systems and the expansion of its global footprint.
The Group tax charge was $37.2 million, an effective tax Variable overheads, including bonuses and sales rate on profit before tax of 25.9% 2006: 37.7%.
commission, were up by 28.2% to $118.5 million, while This improvement was mainly the result of improved fixed overheads grew by 16.8% to $563.5 million.
profitability from those jurisdictions within the Group which are not currently paying tax.
Operating profit was strongly up on the prior period to $131.0 million a year on year increase of 56.2% and Earnings per share were 5.6 cents per share, an the operating margin improved from 2.8% to 3.5%.
increase of 180.0% on the prior year.
The share of results from associates was up by 60.7% The net impact of exceptional items was to increase to $6.2 million while net interest costs reduced to profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by $14.9 million.
Includes Campus, and net Central trading and management costs.
Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 4, the reallocation of the Campus from Middle East and Africa to Central and Other and the reallocation of certain Africa revenues from Product to Services.
service provider and financial services clients also LINES OF BUSINESS supported growth.
In the Groups global lines of business, Network Integration growth of 17.6% reflects an outstanding Converged Communications growth of 47.8% reflects year for the Groups biggest line of business.
market acceptance of IP as the fide facto standard for The Groups heritage is in Network Integration and we telephony.
The strong growth was also the result of the Groups continuing investment in its delivery capabilities, further consolidated our leading global position this year.
including enhancements to its global IP Telephony Several factors contributed to strong demand for deployment and managed service methodologies.
network upgrades, including the convergence of data, We also started to see a higher adoption of visual voice and video over the network.
In addition, we saw communication solutions such as IP Video Conferencing.
increasing central procurement by multinational companies, where the Group with its global footprint, Security grew by 17.3%.
Our clients are increasingly e-procurement solution and logistics capabilities is very expecting security to be embedded in all infrastructure well positioned.
Robust demand from the Groups projects and the increased demand for a plethora of new 18 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 applications means that security solutions have become Growth in Services revenues accelerated across all ever more complex.
In addition, government and geographies, up strongly by 25.3% to $1,523.8 million.
Excluding the impact of strong Services revenue industry regulations around compliance and risk management continue to support demand for secure IT performances from Internet Solutions, Plessey and Merchants discussed in more detail below, the environments.
Groups core Services revenues were up by 20.8%, In our Microsoft Solutions line of business, which grew with Managed Services up by 19.9% and Professional by 21.2%, we are taking a leadership position in helping Services up by 19.4%.
Our Services strategy remains our clients integrate their existing network and telephony focused on the lifecycle management of IT platforms with their Microsoft infrastructures, to capture investments, extending our traditional Plan, Build and the opportunities presented by unified communications.
Support model to include Manage, where we help clients manage their IT assets to improve ROI and to Our Data Centre and Storage DCS line of business maximise business impact through improvement and grew by 20.5%, as clients looked to virtualisation and innovation.
This strategy was supported during the consolidation technologies to optimise performance year by ongoing investment in our service delivery and reduce costs.
This together with the Groups focus models and platforms.
Upgrades during the year to our on business continuity and compliance solutions GSOA meant further functionality and robustness in supported growth.
our Managed Services platform and offerings to our clients.
The Client Interactive Services CIS line of business was up by 24.5% excluding the impact of the REGIONS downsizing in the prior year of Merchants in the UK.
In the Americas region, which includes our operations in The Group benefited from strong demand for its the US, Canada, Mexico and Brazil, revenue grew by contact centre solutions supported by ongoing 9.1%, reflecting an acceleration in revenues in the migration to IP contact centres.
The results reflect very second half.
Services growth of 21.6% was particularly strong performances in Asia and Europe, as well as encouraging.
Gross margins improved following a higher from Merchants in South Africa.
Furthermore, the services mix and improved product margins.
Operating Groups interest in the TSYS partnership in Europe profit was $17.4 million up 72.5% and the operating performed well.
margin improved by 1.1% to 3.0% for the year.
During the year, new offices were opened in Mexico and In the Regional lines of business, Plessey, Internet Canada and we increased our interest in our Brazilian Solutions and Express Data grew revenues by 99.4%, partner to 51%.
Their performances are assessed in more detail below.
The Groups Asian subsidiary, Datacraft, had an excellent year.
Supported by strong revenue growth of REVENUE STREAMS 20.5%, gross margin expansion and overhead Product revenues, being 59.6% of total revenues, grew management, operating profit expanded to by 16.0%.
Growth was evidenced in most of the vertical $36.5 million, or 6.3% of revenues.
The Converged market segments, and in particular spending by our Communications and CIS lines of business were service provider and global clients was robust.
particularly strong, and investment in operational Geographically, Product growth was particularly strong efficiencies, including the consolidation of service in Asia 20.9%, in Europe 31.5% and in Middle East centres in Bangalore and Singapore, supported gross and Africa 25.3%.
Our ability to deliver Product margins.
Overhead containment was the result of efficiently and effectively to our clients remains a key ongoing focus on establishing a standard operating component of our integrated solutions offering.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 19 Chief Financial Officers operating review continued In Australia, revenues grew by 10.9% and operating Empowerment BEE partnership, now in its fourth year profit by 38.4% to $29.2 million.
Product revenues were of involvement with the Group.
impacted by a stronger Australian dollar and slower The four key components of the business Dimension growth in Express Data in the second half, coming off a Data, Plessey, Internet Solutions and Merchants all high base in the prior period.
Managed Services performed exceptionally well.
revenues were up 17.9% and gross margins improved, as a result of new client wins and low churn in the The Dimension Data business recorded growth in all of existing Managed Services base.
Professional Services its key lines of business.
The Network Integration, revenues also grew strongly by 33.3%, while margins Converged Communications and DCS lines of business were lower due to increased reliance on subdelivered very strong performances.
Good control over overheads drove improvement in the operating margin to 3.7% from 2.9% Plessey had an outstanding year, with revenues up in FY2006.
This reflected strength in all three of Plesseys business units mobile infrastructure, fibre rollout Europe recorded excellent revenue and gross profit and wireless.
growth of 20.3% and 31.1% respectively, and gross margin expanded by 1.6% to 20.7%.
Overheads Internet Solutions IS, the Groups market leading nextincreased by 26.9%, partly as a result of increased generation service provider, grew revenues by 33.3% for variable overheads commission and bonus payments the period.
The divisions core access and VPN but also as the region invested in systems, sales operations were solid, as was demand for its hosting capacity and skills.
Operating profit grew to solutions.
Growth was also driven by the African $8.5 million at an operating margin of 0.9% from 0.2% operations outside of South Africa and by continuing in the prior year.
The improved performance of most uptake of IS voice offerings.
countries in the region was very pleasing, while there remains room for improvement in others.
During the Merchants South Africa had an excellent year, with year, the Group acquired a 100% interest in a Czech continued demand for its outsourced call centre network integrator, and disposed of its operations offerings leading to revenue growth of 21.5% for in Sweden.
Middle East and Africas revenues grew by 36.9% to Central and Other includes the results of the property $849.2 million, and operating profit expanded to asset in Johannesburg the Campus and net Central $70.9 million at an operating margin of 8.3%.
Growth trading and management costs.
The Campus is for the was supported by continuing geographic expansion on first time this year disclosed separately from the results the continent, with some 31% of revenues for the period of Middle East and Africa.
derived outside of South Africa.
During the period, the Group acquired a 51% interest in an IT infrastructure Within Central and Other, the operating profit business in Namibia and opened offices in the United contribution from the Campus for the year was Arab Emirates and in Saudi Arabia.
Of this, $13.1 million was net rental 2 particularly strong within the telecommunications sector income on the 81,000m property, up 18.0% as a result and in the public sector.
Important successes were of improved occupation and firmer rental rates.
achieved at national, provincial and municipal levels of government during the year.
A significant portion of the Net central trading and management costs increased regions successful performance is also attributable to to $45.8 million from $33.6 million last year, reflecting the positive contribution of the Black Economic the Groups increased investment in its services 20 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 strategies and in Group-wide systems and processes.
The improvement was largely the result of better profitability in those Variable overheads were also higher, and the costs of jurisdictions in the Group which are not currently paying the Group share incentive schemes were adjusted in tax because of accumulated assessed tax losses.
line with the increased Dimension Data Holdings plc share price.
MINORITY INTERESTS SHARE OF PROFIT OF ASSOCIATES Based on the results for the year, a further 5.0% economic interest in a portion of the Groups business in The share of profit of associates increased to Middle East and Africa vested at period end in favour of $6.2 million from $3.9 million in 2006. our BEE partners, bringing their total economic interest Good contributions were made by all of the Groups up to 14.2%.
key associates, including Paracon, Healthbridge, Automate, Marpless and TSYS.
Britehouse also ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS contributed from June 2007 when the Group sold a During the period, the Group concluded a few small 60% interest in the company to a consortium of BEE acquisitions in Brazil, the Czech Republic and Namibia partners and VenFin Limited see Acquisitions and none of which was material.
In addition, in June 2007 Disposals below.
we disposed of our interest in our Swedish operations to a Scandinavian telecommunication services provider.
INTEREST INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS The Group earned interest of $15.4 million on its cash The most significant transaction was the disposal in holdings, which were $459.2 million at 30 September June 2007, to a consortium of BEE partners and VenFin 2007.
Total finance costs were $30.3 million, including Limited, of a 60% interest in Britehouse, a company $23.3 million on the capitalised property finance lease in which houses the Groups interest in Paracon, an IT South Africa.
resourcing company, and in two IT application companies, Pebbletree and 3Fifteen.
PROPERTY REVALUATION AND OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS From 1 January 2007, the Group changed its Several matters were highlighted as exceptional during accounting for the Campus from owner-occupied to the period.
investment property for the element 56.2% of the property which is let to third parties.
Based on the In FY2006, we reported a $7.5 million exceptional profit Directors assessment of fair value at 30 September in respect of an unrealised foreign exchange gain flowing 2007 a gain of $22.2 million was recorded for the year.
from the intention to settle an inter-company loan.
It should be noted that this includes a gain of This and certain other related loans were settled during $13.6 million in respect of the period 1 January 2007 the period, and a $6.6 million loss was recognised due to 31 March 2007 which, despite being disclosed in to changes in foreign exchange rates.
the interim report as exceptional, is now recorded as a normal gain because it is likely that revaluations of A gain of $11.2 million before capital gains taxes was the Campus will be a recurring feature of the recorded on the sale of 60% of Britehouse.
itself, a BEE expense of $0.5 million was incurred.
TAXATION An expense of $3.7 million was incurred in respect of the The income tax charge for the period was $36.0 million, settlement and associated legal costs of a legal case as a percentage of profit before tax improving from brought against the Groups US operations.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 21 Chief Financial Officers operating review continued A gain of $3.2 million was recorded in respect of a The cumulative impact of the above, net of minority refund of Australian withholding costs on royalties interests, was to increase profit attributable to equity previously overpaid.
Tax on this gain amounted to shareholders of the Group by $6.4 million.
A deferred tax asset of $4.2 million was raised as a result of a reassessment of the tax loss in South Africa.
BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets The Groups investment in property, plant and equipment reduced during the period to $165.0 million mainly as a result of the reclassification as an investment property of a portion of the South African property capitalised under finance lease.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment net of disposals was $58.4 million, compared to $55.4 million last year.
A significant portion of this related to Internet Solutions, as that division invested in equipment for its internet access clients, expanding its Virtual Private Network and establishing new data centre capacity.
Capex Depreciation $ million 2007 2006 2007 2006 Americas 3 1 2 2 Asia 8 6 8 8 Australia 4 3 4 4 Europe 8 5 8 7 ME&A, excluding IS 4 3 3 3 Internet Solutions 31 28 16 11 Central 9 6 7 Group 58 55 47 42 The Groups $6.1 million investment in a venture with Non-current liabilities TSYS Inc, together with the investment reallocation of a Obligations under finance lease of $149.9 million relate $15.1 million interest in Britehouse to associates, offset predominantly to the property finance lease in South by the sale of Paracon for $11.7 million to Britehouse, Africa.
Other long term liabilities of $31.2 million include partly led to the increase in investments in associates vendor financing for long term maintenance contracts in from $15.1 million to $30.4 million.
Current assets Current liabilities The 12.0% growth in inventories to $192.7 million 2006: Trade and other payables amounting to $1,213.2 million, $172.0 million is a pleasing result given the much higher were up 30.1% compared to $932.5 million at revenue growth in the business.
Trade payables were $448.8 receivables grew by 29.9% to $1,003.6 million.
There were no material changes in the trade receivables increased by 23.9%, roughly in line with the increased revenues for the period.
underlying payment terms with our vendors.
22 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 Professional liability execution and delivery CASH FLOW The design, support, and project management nature of Net cash from operating activities increased to most client engagements requires application of high $177.1 million from $12.5 million in the prior year.
standards of process control, compliance and delivery This included cash generated from a $19.1 million ability.
If the clients expectations are not met, the reduction in working capital, an excellent result given the Groups reputation could be damaged and the Group volume growth in the business for the period.
Income could be subject to increased risk of litigation.
The taxes paid and interest paid were also lower than last year.
Group could also be required to provide corrective The Group used $83.3 million in investing activities, services to clients at no charge.
The Group continues to including $60.5 million of capital expenditure on monitor its processes to ensure quality in its delivery and property, plant and equipment and intangibles.
The Group also carries general addition, $32.3 million was invested in treasury shares, liability insurance coverage.
most of which related to an amount of $25.5 million People retention where the Company purchased 22,033,259 of its own shares, currently held in trust, to settle future SARS and Failure to retain and recruit key personnel could harm LTIP obligations.
our ability to meet key objectives.
At the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents A key aspect of the Groups strategy is to provide an were $459.2 million compared to $347.9 million at outstanding employment experience that offers 30 September 2006, while bank overdrafts decreased employees the opportunity to grow personally and from $6.2 million to $3.4 million.
professionally and also attracts high quality employees to the Group.
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS In terms of the UK Companies Act 1985, a description The Group has implemented a comprehensive programme to ensure employee retention, including: of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is required.
Set out below are some of the factors which promotion and support of career development, a could have an impact on the Groups long term structured approach to employee incentives, discipline performance.
These should not be regarded as a and consistency in reward and recognition, and effective complete and comprehensive range of all potential risks communication with employees around strategy and uncertainties facing the Group.
and many make more Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 23 Chief Financial Officers operating review continued Currency risk The Group has operations in over 40 countries and receives revenues and incurs costs in numerous foreign currencies, the most material of which are the South African rand, the Australian dollar, Sterling and the Euro.
It is not the Groups policy to hedge foreign currency earnings and as a consequence, movements in exchange rates can affect the Groups results.
When Dimension Data invoices in local currency and has a foreign currency exposure to suppliers, it generally either uses forward exchange contracts to hedge the exposure, or adjusts the price charged to clients to take account of exchange rate fluctuations.
In particular, many of the products resold by the Group are paid for in US dollars.
The following table reflects the average and year end exchange rates against the US dollar of South African rand, Australian dollar, Sterling and Euro: 2007 2006 Period Period Average end Average end Australian dollar 1.229 1.126 1.337 1.341 Euro 0.746 0.701 0.808 0.789 South African rand 7.142 6.871 6.691 7.764 Sterling 0.509 0.488 0.559 0.535 Vendor risk Business continuity risk The Group forms close and mutually beneficial The ability to seamlessly provide clients with high partnerships with leading technology vendors.
service levels is a critical element of the Groups service This enables it to provide its clients the most advanced offering.
This service delivery is dependent on people and flexible technology solutions.
The Groups and IT infrastructures to continue operating.
The Group relationship with these key vendors is important to its has a business continuity programme in place to continued success.
Termination of a supply or services agreement or a New product and technology risk significant change in vendor terms or conditions of sale The market for the products and services offered by could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue the Group is characterised by rapid technological or the level of capital required to fund our operations.
developments, evolving industry standards, changes in client requirements, frequent new product introductions Liquidity risk and enhancements and short product life cycles.
Liquidity risk management within the Group focuses on The Groups success depends upon its ability to working capital metrics, cash balances as well as the continue to adapt to these changes and to develop new adequacy of the Groups borrowing facilities.
The short services in response.
term liquidity needs of the Group are managed on a daily basis to ensure that contractual cash flow The Group invests in this area by understanding the obligations, and potential cash flows arising from value propositions required, building its capabilities in undrawn commitments and other contingent focused areas, and developing depth of skill and obligations, can be met as they arise.
competence in prioritised growth markets.
24 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 RESTATEMENTS AND CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES The results for the year to 30 September 2006 have been restated for the effects of adopting new accounting policies, as well as certain classification adjustments.
The accounting interpretation IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease was adopted in the current financial year: the impact of this on the results for the year to 30 September 2006 was to decrease operating profit by $0.5 million and increase investment income by $0.6 million, with a net increase in profit before tax of $0.1 million.
The change in use of the Campus property, which is detailed in Notes 1 and 15 to the annual financial statements.
The change in the accounting for the South African property asset is accounted for prospectively.
Product and Services revenues in the prior year have been restated for the reallocation of $23.1 million of Middle East and Africas revenue from Product to Services.
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the annual financial statements for further details on the impact of the above items.
Dave Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 25
