Operating and financial review This Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for, EMI Music identifies potentially successful recording artists, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no signs them under recording contracts, collaborates with them other persons.
It should not be relied upon by any other party to produce recordings of their work, markets the finished for any purpose.
recordings to consumers and media, and sells the releases into the retail trade in a variety of formats.
While this has historically This Operating and Financial Review contains forward-looking been primarily CDs, it is increasingly in a variety of digital formats statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, as well.
We strive to achieve a balance across genres, between amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances new releases and catalogue, across distribution channels occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and and amongst repertoire sources.
EMI Musics approach to markets in which the Group operates.
These and other factors the development of its roster focuses on making consistent could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the investments in artists with long-term career potential and plans and events described.
By their nature, forward-looking is designed to maximise both local and global sales.
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on The primary sources of popular global repertoire have historically circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could been the UK and the US, but we also invest in local repertoire cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those in territories where we can achieve sustainable growth and expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
It is profitability given our business operations, our repertoire, the believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are current market conditions and our expectations for that reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of such market for the future.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Operating and Financial Review will be realised.
We also focus on exploiting our existing recorded music The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and catalogue.
This catalogue is a dynamic asset that continues information available at the date of preparation and will not to generate a significant volume of re-releases with strong be updated during the year.
For example, Pink Floyds album, Dark Side of the Moon, has sold over 34m units worldwide since its release The Operating and Financial Review discusses the in 1974.
We have a solid platform of sales from existing, seminal following areas: albums that is, albums which sell consistently well over many years which do not require significant incremental marketing Page expenditure.
Description of operations 12 to 35% of EMI Music unit sales.
Long-term strategy and business objectives 14 3.
Results for the year ended 31 March 2007 17 EMI Music also compiles successful recordings from our 4.
Key performance indicators 17 catalogue and current roster into new compilation releases.
Performance review for the year ended 31 March 2007 18 Compilations provide opportunities for new creative products, 6.
Future outlook 23 which can become brands themselves.
Financial review for the year ended 31 March 2007 24 from greatest hits albums of major artists to concept collections, 8.
Risks and uncertainties 28 such as the New Woman collection and the Capital Gold series, 9.
Resources 30 to compilations of current hits, such as the Now Thats What I 10.
Critical accounting policies and use of estimates 32 EMI Musics headquarters are in west London and also house the International division.
In addition, EMI Music operates through 1.
Description of operations a network of offices throughout the world, most of which are held EMI Group is composed of two divisions: recorded music through lease arrangements.
In the UK, we own and operate two EMI Music, and music publishing EMI Music Publishing.
recording studios Abbey Road and Olympic Studios.
During the year we completed the sale and leaseback of the Capitol Tower EMI Music in Los Angeles and our offices in Japan.
EMI Music is one of the largest music businesses in the world, active in more than 50 countries worldwide, with licensees in In 2006, we completed the outsourcing of all of EMI Musics a further nine.
We have one of the worlds most extensive worldwide manufacturing operations with the closure of our catalogues of recordings, with over 3m individual tracks.
former manufacturing plant in Canada.
We carry out our own Our record labels include Angel, Astralwerks, Blue Note, physical distribution activities in a number of territories, notably Capitol, Capitol Nashville, EMI, EMI Classics, EMI CMG, EMI the UK, Ireland, US, Hong Kong, Thailand and Singapore.
In Televisa Music, Mute, Narada, Parlophone and Virgin and are other territories, such as Japan, Australia, New Zealand, South home to a diverse roster of artists who encompass a wide range Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and Scandinavia, we have entered of musical genres from classical, jazz, country and Christian into distribution joint-venture arrangements with other music music to alternative, rock, pop, rap urban and dance music.
In certain territories, such as Latin America, For the year ended 31 March 2007, EMI Music generated Indonesia, India, Philippines, Benelux, France, Germany, revenue of 1,350.2m and profit from operations before Italy, Spain and Portugal, distribution services are carried exceptional items and amortisation EBITA of 44.9m.
out on our behalf by third parties.
12 Lily Allen EMI Music UK In July 2007, Lily Allen became the first artist to launch a WAP loyalty based fan club on UK mobile phones.
Fans of Lily can accumulate points by navigating the site on their mobile phone, as well as look at her daily photo diary, enter competitions and purchase mobile content such as exclusive Lily Allen realtones and wallpapers.
13 Operating and financial review continued EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing derives its revenues from: Our other principal division is EMI Music Publishing, one of mechanical royalties, primarily from the sale of music in the worlds leading music publishers.
Music publishing is the CD format, but also from DVDs, audio cassettes, online business of acquiring, protecting, administering and exploiting downloads and items such as music boxes and player rights in musical compositions, while at the same time servicing pianos 43% of EMI Music Publishing revenue in the year : both songwriters and licensors of music alike.
It is a business performance royalties paid for the performance of a song based on the songs themselves as distinct from the recordings, on radio or television broadcasts, webcasts, cabarets, films, commercials or other media in which they are used.
Music live concerts, sporting events, shops and restaurants publishers earn their revenue from licensing the right to use 30% of EMI Music Publishing revenue in the year : their songs.
synchronisation royalties, derived from the use of songs in visual works such as television programmes, Our roster of active songwriters is second to none as films, advertisements, computer games or karaoke evidenced by our chart success around the globe.
Together 18% of EMI Music Publishing revenue in the year : and with these recent hits, our valuable catalogue of classic songs other uses, which include mobile uses such as ring tones, comprises over 1m musical compositions which we own, ring tunes and ring backs, stage productions, sheet music, control or administer.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, merchandise and music from our background library EMI Music Publishing generated revenue of 401.3m and 9% of EMI Music Publishing revenue in the year.
EMI Music Publishing has its worldwide headquarters in New Our publishing catalogues include SBK CBS Songs, MGM York.
In addition, it operates through regional and local offices, and United Artists, Filmtrax Columbia Pictures and Television, most of which are held on leasehold arrangements, in key Screen Gems, Virgin, Jobete Motown and a substantial part markets throughout the world.
of the Windswept Pacific catalogue.
Long-term strategy and business objectives EMI Music Publishing acquires copyrights or a share of the EMI Groups strategy is to create shareholder value by copyrights in musical compositions, or enters into agreements developing the best musical content at both our recorded to administer copyrights or a share of copyrights, and exploits music business, EMI Music, and our music publishing business, the compositions by licensing them for inclusion on records, EMI Music Publishing, and to exploit fully this valuable content film, television and other media, seeking new uses for the on a global basis through all economically attractive channels.
compositions, and administering and collecting the proceeds generated.
In return for providing these services, we are Digital music is becoming a more significant part of our business entitled to a percentage of the royalty income, which varies and we anticipate that it will continue to grow.
In order to compete from contract to contract.
EMI Music Publishing is constantly effectively in this fast paced environment, we are diverting refining its collection of songs with a view to having the finest resources towards digital to capitalise fully on the expanded songs on offer to those who use musical compositions.
revenue and profit opportunity that this brings.
We are building digital capabilities in all our key skill areas such as artists and repertoire A&R together with marketing and promotion.
The Beatles Jolin Tsai EMI Music EMI Music UK Taiwan 14 Furthermore, we are investing in digital-enabling technology which drives increased sales and profitability.
By replicating this to allow full achievement of our objectives.
We are broadening process across musical genres, we have assembled exceptional the ways in which we approach the consumer particularly portfolios of music content in EMI Music and EMI Music through online and mobile channels.
This enables us to Publishing which exhibit strength, breadth and depth.
As part form direct relationships with consumers and get a better our current restructuring programme, we are reviewing all the understanding of their preferences, so we can focus on the territories in which we operate with an objective of investing in consumer and their experience.
This led us to announce in only those regions where we believe sustainable profit growth is April 2007 a new premium download product.
However, we expect to maintain our presence across the entire EMI digital catalogue at higher sound quality than all geographies through partnerships and licence agreements.
previously available and without the harness of digital rights management.
This enables complete interoperability of digital EMIs overriding goal is to maximise the value of these content music where the consumer can purchase and play music on any assets and a key element of this is successful marketing and device from any retail store.
The move to premium downloads promotion.
At EMI Music, specialised local marketing teams also creates a level playing field for retailers to compete and work alongside our dedicated global marketing team to share therefore meet consumer needs.
best practice and also to promote local A&R successes into global superstars.
EMI Music Publishing is creative in proactively At EMI Music Publishing, we are driving the industrys efforts marketing its songs for increased and new uses, and we continue to implement appropriate payment and collection structures to develop a world-class sales organisation.
The business has for the new digital revenue streams.
Most recently, we were the dedicated teams that develop and maintain relationships with, for leading force behind the Centralised European Licensing and instance, advertising agencies, film and television producers and Administration Services agreement between the UK and German video-game makers.
This has resulted in a broadening of EMI collection societies to establish a pan-European licensing and Music Publishings client base and increased revenue generation.
collection mechanism for mobile and online digital rights for our Anglo-American repertoire.
We also believe in the aggressive protection of our assets and will continue to drive the industry to enforce measures against piracy.
We continue to invest in artists and repertoire A&R as it is fundamental to our ability to create new, exciting music and It is key to the EMI Group to leverage the ownership of its two strengthen our catalogue.
At the core of our A&R strategy is the complementary assets, EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing, identification and development of artists and songwriters with and we strive to extract value from deriving synergies between the potential to enjoy long-term commercial success across the two.
multiple releases and revenue streams.
EMI seeks to participate in more aspects of the music value chain which will enable us to In summary, EMIs strategy is to create, develop and realise provide a diversified range of services to the artist.
There is also fully the value of high quality music content.
In combination an emerging focus towards signing all-rights deals where we with an on-going focus on costs and cash generation, EMIs participate in multiple revenue streams that the artist generates, management believes that this strategy should deliver improved such as from touring and merchandising.
Focusing on long-term financial performance and growing shareholder returns.
career artists and songwriters has favourable economics, Utada Hikaru Natalie Dessay EMI Music EMI Music Japan France 15 Keith Urban EMI Music Australia Keith Urban won his third consecutive Male Vocalist of the Year award at Novembers 40th Annual Country Music Association Awards.
His fourth studio album Love, Pain & The Whole Crazy Thing debuted at number one in the Billboard Country Album Chart, and was the number 1 album at iTunes in the US in its first week of release.
16 Operating and financial review continued 3.
Results for the year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 Underlying Group revenue declined by 15.8% on a reported Group basis and by 12.1% at constant currency.
EMI Music revenue i Earnings per share diluted, underlying EPS 5.8p 15.7p ii declined by 15.0% at constant currency.
EMI Music Publishing Operating free cash conversion 43.1% 93.8% revenue declined by only 0.9% at constant currency.
Group operating margin decreased from 12.0% to 8.6%.
EMI Music iii EMI Music market share 11.9% 13.3% EMI Music operating margin reduced from 8.7% to 3.3%.
iv EMI Music operating margin 3.3% 8.7% EMI Music Publishing operating margin improved from 25.1% to 26.3%.
EMI Music Publishing Group digital revenue increased from 112.1m to 164.2m v EMI Music Publishing revenue growth 0.9 % 2.6% and represents 9.4% of total underlying Group revenue.
vi EMI Music Publishing operating margin 26.3% 25.1% Underlying profit before tax decreased by 60.6% to 62.7m Notes: from 159.3m.
i Earnings per share diluted, underlying EPS Underlying diluted earnings per share decreased to 5.8p Definition: Underlying Earnings m Diluted Shares m. from 15.7p.
Calculation: Underlying Earnings is profit from continuing operations after taxation, adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation, finance Future dividend payments have been suspended until the exceptional items, minority interests and convertible bond benefits of the restructuring programme have been fully interest.
Diluted Shares is the weighted average number of realised.
The interim dividend of 2p has been paid.
Ordinary Shares in issue, adjusted for dilutive share options and convertible bond options.
Purpose: To assess the progression of underlying profit generation Financial Summary within the Group.
Source: Internal Company data and audited Financial statements.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 ii Operating free cash conversion m m Definition: Operating Free Cash flow m Underlying EBITA m. Calculation: Operating Free Cash flow is calculated by taking underlying Underlying Group revenue 1,751.5 2,079.9 Profit from operations EBITA before operating exceptional i Underlying EBITDA 174.0 275.8 items and amortisation, adding back depreciation and nonii Group profit from operations EBITA 150.5 250.5 cash movements and deducting net capital expenditure.
This is iii Underlying PBT 62.7 159.3 divided by underlying Group EBITA before operating exceptional items and amortisation to reach a cash conversion percentage.
Total loss profit before taxation 263.6 118.1 iv Purpose: To assess the ability of the Group to convert operating profits Underlying diluted earnings per share 5.8p 15.7p into cash.
Basic loss earnings per share 36.3 p 10.9p Source: Internal Company data and audited Financial statements.
Dividend per share 8.0p 8.0p v Return on sales 8.6% 12.0% iii EMI Music market share vi Definition: EMI Music global market share physical sales only %.
Interest cover 1.9x 3.0x Calculation: EMI Music revenue from physical product sales divided i EBITDA is Group profit from operations before depreciation, operating exceptional by recorded music market physical product sales.
Purpose: To assess how EMI Music is performing in its particular market.
Source: EMI internal estimates based on latest available official data ii Group profit from operations EBITA is before operating exceptional items and from the global recording industry association, the IFPI.
Official IFPI data is used as it is the most reliable independently iii Underlying PBT is before exceptional items and amortisation.
EMI measures its revenues for market iv Underlying diluted earnings per share is before exceptional items and amortisation.
share purposes following the guidelines used by the IFPI to measure the recorded music market in order to ensure v Return on sales is defined as Group profit from operations before operating comparability.
Official digital market share statistics were not exceptional items and amortisation as a percentage of Group revenue.
available for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2007.
The vi Interest cover is defined as the number of times EBITDA is greater than Group data above, therefore, only relates to physical market share.
finance charges, excluding non-periodic interest and non-standard charges.
iv EMI Music operating margin EBITA % margin Exceptional items include operating exceptional items and financial exceptional items.
Operating exceptional items include impairment of goodwill and Definition: EMI Music EBITA after corporate costs m EMI Music revenue m. intangible assets, gains losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and remeasurement of listed investments.
Finance exceptional items include Calculation: EMI Music EBITA is stated after the deduction of Group central costs allocated on a share of revenue basis but before remeasurement of financial assets and liabilities to be included within finance charges and exceptional refinancing costs.
This is then divided by EMI Music revenue to obtain an operating margin percentage.
Purpose: To assess the progression of underlying profitability within 4.
Key performance indicators EMI Music.
The Board and management of EMI use a number of key Source: Internal Company data and audited Financial statements.
performance indicators to assess the on-going performance v EMI Music Publishing revenue growth of the business, of which the principal ones are disclosed below.
Definition: Constant currency revenue growth %.
We believe it is important to look at performance on both a Calculation: Revenue growth is presented at constant currency.
The effect of currency fluctuations is eliminated by translating Group and divisional basis.
Given the changing nature of the local currency into Sterling at the same rate in both years.
industry in which we operate, we believe it is most instructive Purpose: To assess EMI Music Publishing revenue progression, in to assess EMIs performance relative to the overall industry the absence of third-party market share data.
At this early stage of the digital markets development, we continue to believe that there is vi EMI Music Publishing operating margin EBITA % margin no single measure on which one can assess the Groups Definition: EMI Music Publishing EBITA after corporate costs m EMI Music Publishing revenue m. digital business performance.
Calculation: EMI Music Publishing EBITA is stated after the deduction of Group central costs allocated on a share of revenue basis but before exceptional items and amortisation.
This is then divided by EMI Music Publishing revenue to obtain an operating margin percentage.
Purpose: To assess the progression of underlying profitability within EMI Music Publishing.
17 Operating and financial review continued 5.
Performance review EMI Music Recorded music industry 2006 07 has been a challenging year for EMI Music.
Sales EMI Music operates in a marketplace that continues to undergo declined by 15.0% at constant currency.
This is partly a significant change, primarily driven by the rapid development function of the decline within the total music industry as well as of the digital music industry.
Global digital markets increased the disappointing performance of EMI Musics portfolio compared by 68.3% in value over the financial year to account for 13.2% to the prior year.
We generated seventeen 1m plus selling albums of the total industry, with both mobile and fixed line platforms in the year including successes from Norah Jones, The Beatles, enjoying strong growth.
Challenging market conditions saw Keith Urban, Corinne Bailey Rae, Bob Seger and Joss Stone.
global physical sales decline by 13.6% over the financial year, Strong performers digitally included MIMS, Utada Hikaru, KT resulting in an overall industry decline of 7.6% for the period.
Total digital revenue represented 10.4% of total EMI Music revenue in the year.
The digital environment continues to be dynamic with new entrants, new services and new devices.
Consumers are Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation now able to access up to 4m tracks in the legitimate digital EBITA declined to 44.9m, resulting in an operating margin of environment enjoying access to 24 hour music stores with 3.3%.
This decline in profitability was driven by the flow through unlimited shelf space.
to profits from the reduction in revenues.
In April 2006, we announced a cost savings initiative of 30m for the Group of This year, more people were able to access the digital which 25m was targeted for EMI Music to be achieved by the environment due to the wide availability of broadband lines and end of 2007 08.
During 2006 07, the Group achieved 20m of music enabled mobile phones.
In the past year, mobile music in this target which was well ahead of the planned 10m.
In January particular has developed strongly, fuelled by new services such 2007, we also initiated a far-reaching restructuring programme as full audio and video over the air delivery.
The last year has to remove 110m from the Group cost base which will be seen significant expansion of the mobile entertainment market completed by 31 March 2009.
The majority of these cost in the US.
Music videos and user generated content are also reductions will be generated from EMI Music.
gaining in importance bolstered by the popularity of services such as Yahoo!
This is creating new commercial and Digital technology is multiplying the ways in which we can promotional opportunities for artist videos.
Furthermore, the way monetise our music assets and our key strategic priority is people discover music is changing.
The past year has also seen to continue to make our music content available on all the increasing popularity of social networking sites.
This gives economically attractive platforms, formats and services to EMI a new way in which to market artists and is also a valuable ensure the widest consumer reach.
In April 2007, we announced resource in gathering information about consumer preferences.
that we were launching a new premium download product EMI continues to explore actively commercial opportunities which provides our music at a higher sound quality and without around social networking.
the restrictions of digital rights management to consumers.
We are the first major recorded music company to do this and The industry has continued to make progress in combating both it is a fundamental step towards removing the boundaries for physical and digital piracy.
We have had notable legal victories consumers by enabling the interoperability of digital music against illegal peer-to-peer sites and continued in our efforts to between services and devices.
Our recent partnership with get Internet Service Providers to take greater responsibility for Amazon to provide our new premium product in their digital providing access to unauthorised content from their sites.
music store illustrates how the absence of DRM is promoting Such successes include KaZaa Australia, Kuro Taiwan, competition between digital retailers.
By removing DRM, we and Zoekmp3 the Netherlands.
This has improved the business are able to provide a seamless experience for the consumer, landscape for legitimate music sales.
Today there are over which we believe will grow the demand for digital music.
498 legitimate online music services in over 40 countries.
We continued to broaden our digital distribution channels globally by entering into agreements with partners who will make our music available on their platforms.
During the year, we entered into partnerships including: a multi-territory deal with Apple: regional partnerships with MTV, Yahoo, Last.
fm and Sony: and national EMI Music United Kingdom 15% 30 Seconds To Mars EMI Music Rest of Europe 34% revenue by region USA North America 27% Asia Pacific 20% Other 4% 18 agreements with Amazon in the US, Baidu in China, Napster in We believe it is important to participate across all genres and in Germany and Playlouder and BT Vision in the UK.
In addition to North America we have specific labels dedicated to Country establishing the right relationships on the right terms, we are at the Capitol Nashville, Christian CMG and Jazz Music Bluenote.
forefront of the industry in exploiting the new product, format and All of these labels are well known for their ability to attract high windowing possibilities that digital enables.
For example, during calibre talent such as Anita Baker, Amy Grant and Kenny Rogers.
the year we distributed the 30 Seconds To Mars video using the During the year, they generated strong sellers with releases latest Web 2.0 technology.
The flash technology allows users to from Norah Jones, Keith Urban and Chris Tomlin.
embed videos within their own websites and social networking pages, with a click through function which allows viewers of the In September 2006, we completed the sale and leaseback of the web page to purchase the tracks and also allows us to generate Capitol Tower in Los Angeles which resulted in an inflow of cash additional revenue by putting advertising around the video for the Group.
EMI Music repertoire is now available digitally in 70 countries, up from 56 countries in the prior year.
We believe that As part of the restructuring we announced in January 2007, we have made significant progress within the digital arena during we have merged our two main pop labels in the region, Capitol the year and that this will enable us to enhance value for our and Virgin, to form the Capitol Music Group.
The combined artist shareholders through the growth of this market in the future.
roster, talent and market share of this new label group establishes it as one of North Americas leading labels.
The restructuring EMI Music geographic review also involves additional overhead reductions throughout our North America operations in the region and an increased focus on building 2006 07 has been a challenging year for the North American our digital capability.
market, which declined by 7.7% overall.
Digital sales grew strongly by 80.1%, which was driven, in particular, by the UK & Ireland mobile market.
This growth has not compensated for the Consistent with the global recorded music market, the UK decline experienced in the physical market.
Digital market experienced very tough conditions over the last represented 20.8% of the total market during 2006 07.
12 months, particularly in the physical market which showed significant decline in the fourth quarter.
Total physical sales Against this difficult backdrop, our North American business declined by an estimated 11.8% in the year, while digital sales experienced a decline in revenue.
We had key successes increased by 79.7% to give a total market decline of 8.8% over from US artists, Norah Jones, Keith Urban, Janet Jackson, the 2006 07 financial year.
This reflected the weakness in industry 30 Seconds To Mars and Trace Adkins in combination with the sales in the key Christmas period and continuing price erosion effective marketing and promotion of international releases from as the specialist retailers began to compete on price with The Beatles, Corinne Bailey Rae and Joss Stone.
MIMS is our the supermarkets.
latest urban breakthrough act in the region: his debut single has performed very strongly with 1.3m ring tunes sold and The strength and depth of our UK artist roster was again 0.7m tracks downloaded globally in the financial year.
demonstrated this year despite the difficult market conditions.
Album releases from Robbie Williams and Corinne Bailey Rae EMI Musics digital revenue in North America increased by 64% each sold in excess of 2m physical units worldwide and The over the year.
Mobile products grew at the fastest rate but online Beatles Love album sold 5m worldwide during the year.
A number downloads continued to represent the largest digital segment for of new UK artists also broke through to success during the year, the region.
EMI Music has consistently been an innovator of new most notably The Kooks, Lily Allen, The Good, The Bad and products and services.
Most recently, we reached an agreement The Queen and Jamie T. EMIs British artists had tremendous with Amazon, making us the first music major to be in Amazons success in the US with Corinne Bailey Rae and KT Tunstall new online music store.
We were also the first music major to breaking through in the year.
12 of the top 40 best-selling UK make its catalogue of recordings available to Qtrax, which will albums in the US during 2006 were EMI releases, including be the first , legal peer-to-peer music seven of the top 12 which is more than any of our competitors.
During the year, we provided tracks which EMI Music continued to demonstrate its strength in the were used as pre-loaded content when the Microsofts Zune compilation market and, in the final quarter of the financial player was launched in November 2006. year, it had three of the top 10 selling compilations.
RBD Sarah Brightman EMI Music EMI Music Mexico UK 19 Operating and financial review continued Our digital revenue for 2006 07 in the UK grew by 31% over the from EMIs digital catalogue free of charge.
EMI has also signed prior year with fixed line downloads increasing by 16%, mobile a pan-European agreement with online social community Last.
fm, downloads increasing by 41% and subscription by 38% over the to make music from EMI available to its users, and a deal with period.
Digital delivery brings many opportunities for capturing Sony to pre-load EMI Music onto the Sony memory stick as well new revenue streams which we continue to explore.
For example, as a number of pre-load handset deals including one with Nokia.
EMI Music UK has entered into a deal with Playlouder MSP to make available its extensive catalogue via Playlouders bundled During the year, as part of the cost reduction programme announced subscription and ISP service.
in April 2006, the region redeveloped its organisation and business approach to address changes in consumer trends and the As part of the restructuring we announced in January 2007, we consumption of music including the establishment of shared service have scaled back in all areas and merged some functions of our centres for finance processing and advanced CRM capability and four UK labels while maintaining the four imprints.
We anticipate practices, in particular, in France and Spain.
This programme will that this will take significant costs out of the business while continue with the further restructuring announced in January 2007. maintaining excellent specialist A&R skills in each label that will enable EMI to capitalise on the opportunities for marketing its Japan recorded music around the world.
The Japanese market declined by 2.4% overall during the 2006 07 year with digital sales representing 12.4% of Continental Europe the overall industry.
Market conditions in Continental Europe were challenging over the financial year, with total industry sales declining by 8.3%.
Against this backdrop, our Japanese business performed strongly with its market share improving by 0.6 percentage EMI Music delivered a very commendable market share in a points.
This was driven by successful releases from Utada tough market environment.
EMI gained market share in Spain, Hikaru selling over 1m physical units in the region along with the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria and Poland while also local releases from DJ Ozma and Glay.
International best sellers delivering good results in Greece, Belgium and Italy.
Good included Sarah Brightman and The Beatles.
Utada Hikaru also performances came from a broad range of established and new performed phenomenally in digital format, with the Flavor of Life artists.
Herbert Grnemeyer sold over 1m units worldwide of his track selling 4.4m ring tunes in the financial year, which continues album 12 and it remained number 1 in the German album charts to sell strongly.
Overall, digital revenue showed an increase of for five weeks in a row which has not been accomplished by a 69% in the year, with mobile continuing to represent the majority local artist since he also achieved this in 2002.
French rap artist of total digital sales.
Digital revenues represented 19.6% of Diams achieved the best-selling album in France in 2006 with total revenue in Japan.
Dans Ma Bulle, reaching 1m units since its release.
Diams also won Best French Act at the 2006 MTV Europe Music Awards.
In April 2006, we announced a major restructuring of this business to improve the efficiency of our operations, to reinvest We have sustained digital growth in the region during the financial a proportion of these savings in the key areas of A&R and year, with revenue increasing by 30%.
However, our digital growth marketing, and to introduce a new multi-label organisational in Continental Europe is constrained by the lack of local fixed line structure.
During the year, we have implemented all the initiatives retail stores in major markets such as Benelux and Scandinavia to ensure that we achieve the associated cost savings by the end and a lack of marketing support for download stores.
In conjunction with this restructuring, we sold and products represented a greater portion of digital sales in Europe leased back two freehold properties in Tokyo, with a substantial than in the US or the UK, although fixed line sales still account cash inflow generated from the transaction.
for the majority of digital sales.
The key issue remained the heavy level of piracy, particularly in Spain, Greece and Italy.
However, In December 2006, EMI announced the purchase from Toshiba EMI Music continues to explore all profitable digital models.
For of its 45% minority interest in Toshiba-EMI for 93m.
We expect example, EMI Music has announced an , to complete the purchase in the first half of the 2007 08 financial pan-European agreement with Yahoo!
Music, the biggest online year and EMI will then own 100% of our Japanese operations.
video-on-demand service in the world, together with AOL and Owning 100% of the business will provide us with full strategic MTV, to enable consumers of online services to watch videos flexibility in the region.
Joss Stone Sir Simon Rattle Diams EMI Music EMI Music EMI Music UK UK France 20 South East Asia and throughout our operations which we believe should mitigate The major markets in South East Asia suffered sales declines as the possibility of similar issues in the future.
EMI Music Brazil has physical and digital piracy continued to take their toll.
Overall, our also been thoroughly restructured and new senior management business suffered a slight decrease in share in the region, but has been appointed.
The refocus of the company culture is now continues to deliver acceptable profit levels.
EMIs digital growth in the region was robust, with download Local superstars RBD had another good year, selling almost 3m revenue growing by a factor of four times and subscription units globally of their six currently released albums in the financial revenue growing by a factor of six times, as the region year.
Releases from local artists Kumbia All Starz and Intocable experienced a pick up in broadband penetration.
We gained were also successful, as were the new artists Fonseca, Shaila, digital market share over the year and digital revenue accounted Kudai and teen talent Belinda.
The Latin music icon, Juan Luis for nearly 15% of the regions revenue.
Major local releases in Guerra, has recently been signed to EMI-Televisa.
the region included Jolin Tsai, S. H. E, David Tao and ADA Band.
Top-selling international artists included The Beatles and As part of the restructuring plan announced in January 2007, Robbie Williams.
the Latin American regional head office has been reorganised and each country within the region now reports directly to Music in China is an excellent opportunity for us, particularly EMI Music International.
During the year, we embraced the growing market in China by being the first music major to We believe that EMIs Latin music business, both in Latin America announce a pioneering strategic partnership with Baidu to and in the US, will improve its creative and business performance launch an , online music streaming due to our recent management changes and to the growing service in China, the first revenue-sharing arrangement economic development of the Latin demographic.
We are well between an internet search engine and an international positioned to develop and exploit this through our joint venture music company in that country.
with Grupo Televisa S. A. the largest broadcaster in Mexico and the largest Spanish language conglomerate in the world.
We are currently implementing cost reductions in the region as part of our restructuring programme.
Digital revenues for 2006 07 were almost four times larger than in the previous year and the rising penetration of mobile phones Australasia in most of Latin America provides a great opportunity for the legal Market conditions in Australasia worsened during the 2006 07 distribution of music in the immediate future.
EMI Latin America financial year.
EMI Musics market share was modestly down.
is focused on its mobile strategy and has completed a regional During the year, we generated releases from local superstars, deal with Telefonica Movistar as well as most of the America The 12th Man and Silverchair, as well as selling international Movils carriers throughout the region.
It has teamed up with titles from The Beatles, Norah Jones and Robbie Williams.
Our Sony Ericsson and Nokia for the creation of preloaded content restructuring programme has already been implemented in the campaigns supporting the new albums of a number of local and region.
iTunes launched in New Zealand during December 2006 international artists.
For example, as part of the release campaign and this leaves the region well placed for growth in the for Robbie Williams Rudebox, his Intensive Care album was digital market.
preloaded and sold in 850,000 units of Sony Ericsson handsets.
Latin America EMI Classics Our Latin American business had a disappointing 2006 07 year, EMI and Virgin Classics had a good year during 2006 07 with largely because of problems experienced in Brazil.
In October particular success in France where they grew their market share 2006, an accounting fraud was discovered in our recorded by 7% and had a huge hit with The Miracle of the Voice from music operations in Brazil, which had a 9m negative profit the critically acclaimed soprano, Natalie Dessay.
Following our investigation of the events and factors performed well with the Sarah Brightman Diva collection which led to and contributed to the fraud, we have conducted a and Simon Rattles recording of The Planets.
thorough review of our policies and procedures both in Brazil Depeche Mode Herbert Grnemeyer EMI Music EMI Music UK Germany 21 Operating and financial review continued The superstar pianist, Evgeny Kissin, has just been signed to Jamiroquai, Kasabian, My Chemical Romance, Scissor Sisters, EMI Classics joining other great names such as Nigel Kennedy, the Fratellis, The Feeling, Andreas Johnson, Estopa, Silbermond, Leif Ove Andsnes and Angela Gheorghiu.
Virgin Classics added La Roi Soleil, The Veronicas, and Vasco Rossi.
the brilliant young pianist, David Fray, and the German soprano, Diana Damrau, to its expanding roster.
With the worlds best collection of songs, we are working to drive industry reform in order to ensure that our songwriters are paid for EMI Classics is one of the oldest record labels in the world.
Nowhere is this more appropriate than in the world EMI Classics has started a drive to tap further into this incredible of digital revenues.
resource and share it with music lovers across the globe.
In March 2007, EMI Classics and iTunes teamed up to celebrate Digital revenues continued to grow strongly during 2006 07, the 80th birthday of the late Mstislav Rostropovich, who was increasing by 35.5% at constant currency on the prior year, to one of the worlds greatest cellists.
EMI Classics is running an 25.3m.
Revenues from digital music are currently classified international campaign in conjunction with iTunes giving music amongst the various revenue categories mechanical, performance, lovers access to his entire EMI discography as cellist, conductor synchronisation and other uses based on the varying status of and pianist.
income collection for these new uses in different countries.
EMI Music Publishing The use of songs in mobile phone products remains the EMI Music Publishing once again delivered a solid performance most significant early digital revenue contributor for EMI Music for the financial year ended 31 March 2007.
Profit from operations Publishing and continues to enjoy very strong growth.
For the before exceptional items and amortisation EBITA, increased revenue from mobile products, we have seen the percentage to 105.6m, an increase of 4.2% at constant currency with contribution from ring tunes increase significantly during the year operating margin improving to 26.3%.
Due to recorded music whilst the contribution from ring tones has decreased.
This trend market conditions, as well as some phasing of income, revenue is expected to continue as technology, handsets and networks decreased by 0.9% at constant currency to 401.3m.
Overall, continue to drive a product shift in the mobile space.
Revenues this performance reflected both the underlying health and from digital downloads up 158.3% at constant currency in the resilience of the business, as well as the early effects of year, and other newer products, such as video downloads, efficiencies from our comprehensive restructuring programme have also grown strongly and are starting to contribute more which, in turn, is part of the evolution of the business.
EMI Music to the divisions growth.
EMI Music Publishing remains at the Publishing has implemented a new strategy that will reshape the forefront of digital music by fostering relationships with new business for future growth and flexibility while, at the same time, media companies at all stages of development in order to building on and holding true to past successes.
There are four maximise the exploitation of our songwriters music.
key pillars to this strategy: continued excellence in A&R evidenced by the signing of todays top songwriters: helping to However, growth in digital revenues in music publishing continues reform the industrys infrastructure through licensing and rate to lag the recorded music industry, reflecting an under-developed setting initiatives: further strengthening our internal capabilities industry infrastructure for the tracking and collection of digital including process and systems re-engineering: and deepening royalties and the lack of agreements on digital royalty rates for and expanding our client relationships.
certain products in some regions.
EMI Music Publishing is at the forefront of the industrys effort to ensure that the right structures Continued success in signing songwriters is essential for our and rates are in place to identify and collect fully all past and future profitability.
This year, a broad range of songs, songwriters future digital revenues.
We were pleased to join the Centralised and products underpinned our continued ability to sign the European Licensing and Administration Services initiative, which worlds best songwriters, while reflecting the quality and depth is based on an agreement between the UKs MCPS-PRS Alliance of the catalogue.
Notable successes during the period included and Germanys GEMA collection societies to establish a pansongs by Beyonc, Fergie, Gym Class Heroes, Jay-Z, Norah European licensing and collection mechanism for mobile and Jones, Panic!
At The Disco, The Fray, Nelly Furtado, Tool, Young online digital rights.
This pan-European one-stop shop for the Jeezy, Pink, Amy Winehouse, Arctic Monkeys, James Blunt, licensing of online rights, which went live in January 2007, is a EMI Music Publishing United Kingdom 19% High School Musical The Kooks EMI Music Buena Vista Music Group EMI Music Rest of Europe 30% revenue by region USA UK North America 39% Asia Pacific 9% Other 3% 22 22 groundbreaking initiative in the publishing industry.
EMI Music recent years has been revenue gained from stepped up efforts Publishing is involved in many industry developments and ratein enforcing proper use of our copyrights.
By their nature, these setting negotiations around the globe, all in the interest of making revenues tend to be irregular and unpredictable, accounting for sure our songwriters are properly and fairly paid for their works.
the overall decline on a constant currency basis in this revenue category.
Mechanical revenue Our mechanical revenues, which are derived from the sale of 6.
Future Outlook recorded music, declined by 6.7% at constant currency, reflecting The recorded music market continues to undergo significant the continued declines in the global recorded music market change as it becomes increasingly digitised.
At this stage, during the same period.
Mechanical revenues now represent uncertainty exists as to the timing and extent of future market 42.6% of total divisional sales on a constant currency basis.
We have seen physical sales declining at a regional basis, weaknesses in Eastern Europe and Scandinavia significantly faster rate than the industry had anticipated but the were partially offset by increases in Southeast Asia, while the US, Company remains positive on the long-term trends for the the UK and Continental Europe were down marginally.
industry and, in particular, that there will be continued strong demand for digital music products of all types.
We believe that Performance revenue the launch of our DRM-free, superior sound quality downloads, Performance revenues, earned when a song is performed live will boost sales of digital music and help unlock the many on stage, played in a bar or other public venue or broadcast on opportunities of the digital market.
Our premium download the radio or television, grew by 10.1% at constant currency for product will be available with various retail partners including the year and now represent 30.0% of divisional revenues on a iTunes, Amazon, VirginMega and Telenor.
We are currently in constant currency basis.
Key drivers of growth in this business negotiations with many other retail services for the launch of are the chart success of songs from our roster of active this product.
songwriters and the proliferation of new media channels, especially across Europe.
On a regional basis, performance In January 2007, we announced a restructuring programme income was particularly strong in the US, reflecting timing and an update to our strategy to secure sustainable growth in differences and strong underlying growth.
underlying profits and cash flow.
These initiatives will generate annualised cost savings of 110m and we expect 76m of these Synchronisation revenue savings to be achieved by March 2008, with the full run rate being Synchronisation revenue, which is generated by the use of songs in reflected in the financial results for the year to 31 March 2009. audiovisual works such as advertisements, television programmes, films, computer games and in mobile phones, increased by 5.6% We will continue to invest significantly in A&R to allow a continuing at constant currency, resulting in more than 12 years of consecutive strong focus on artist and songwriter development.
From the record level achieved in 2005 06, EMI Music investing to develop further our digital expertise so that we remain Publishing was able to drive meaningful growth in synchronisation positioned at the forefront of the industry in capitalising on the by gaining greater penetration in multiple channels, particularly in opportunities arising from the markets evolution.
This growth is an early reflection of our strategy to deepen and broaden our customer relationships with licensors In the current financial year, EMI Music is planning releases from of music.
Significant licences were issued worldwide for a number Kasey Chambers, Korn, Kylie Minogue, Lenny Kravitz, LeToya, of major advertising campaigns, including Toyota, Kirin Beer, M, Moby, Raphael, Thalia, The Chemical Brothers and Vasco Pantene, General Electric, Maxwell House, Ford, Verizon, Proctor Rossi.
EMI Music Publishing expects to see releases from & Gamble, Starwood, Macys, Pier 1 and O. songwriters including Alicia Keys, Ashlee Simpson, Arctic 2 Monkeys, Chris Cornell, Kanye West, Kelly Clarkson, Shiny Other revenue Toy Guns, The Police, The Used and White Stripes.
We have a Other revenue typically represents about 10% of revenues, world renowned catalogue in both EMI Music and EMI Music although the absolute amount can vary significantly from year Publishing and we will continue to exploit them for the benefit to year.
An important driver of the change in other revenue in of all stakeholders.
Robbie Williams EMI Music UK 23 Operating and financial review continued On 21 May 2007, it was announced that the Board is In January 2007, we announced a comprehensive restructuring recommending a cash offer for EMI from Terra Firma at a price programme to realign our investment approach and streamline of 265p per share, valuing EMI on an enterprise value basis at our operations.
This programme will deliver 110m of annualised approximately 3.2bn and valuing the entire issued and to be savings with 76m currently anticipated to be achieved in issued share capital of EMI at approximately 2.4bn.
The Board 2007 08. believes that the combination of the value of Terra Firmas offer, its deliverability and the minimum of operational risk to the Profit from operations i business make the offer more attractive to EMI shareholders Group profit from operations EBITA decreased by 100.0m than the other proposals received and the range of other or 39.9% from 250.5m to 150.5m.
Excluding exchange, the strategic options available to the Company.
decrease in EBITA was 94.6m or 37.8%.
Group operating margin decreased from 12.0% to 8.6% in the year.
Financial review for the year ended 31 March 2007 Revenue EMI Music delivered EBITA of 44.9m, a decline of 100.2m or Reported underlying Group revenue decreased by 15.8% or 68.2% at constant currency on the prior year.
Excluding the effects of unfavourable EBITA was largely driven by the revenue declines particularly currency movements, the decrease was 12.1% or 252.2m.
in North America, UK & Ireland and Latin America mentioned The unfavourable exchange movement was largely driven by above.
The operating margin reduced from 8.7% to 3.3%.
an increase in the weighted average rate of the US Dollar against Sterling from $1.78 last year to $1.90 in 2006 07.
EMI Music Publishing generated EBITA of 105.6m, a growth of 4.2% at constant currency on the prior year.
Operating margin At constant currency, revenue in EMI Music declined by 15.0%, improved from 25.1% to 26.3%, reflecting the partial effects of with notable decreases in North America, UK & Ireland and Latin the restructuring programme and its efficiencies.
The Groups share of profit in its associated company At constant currency, revenue in EMI Music Publishing was investments increased from 1.0m in 2005 06 to 1.8m down 0.9% versus the prior year due mainly to declines in in 2006 07.
Consequently, the total underlying profit from physical mechanical sales as well as minor phasing adjustments.
operations for the Group is 152.3m this year compared The 6.7% decrease in mechanical revenue was largely offset by to 251.5m last year.
solid growth in performance and synchronisation revenues.
Group finance charges, excluding exceptional finance charges, Group digital revenue increased to 164.2m from 112.1m in the reduced by 2.6m to 89.6m.
This reflected a 3.2% decrease prior year, an increase of 46.5%.
Digital revenue represented in average net borrowings, an increase in pension fund interest 9.4% of total underlying Group revenue for the year.
receivable offset by higher rates in three of our major funding territories the US, the UK and Europe.
Costs The underlying gross margin, after distribution costs, declined Underlying profit before tax declined by 60.6% from 159.3m to from 37.2% to 34.9%.
This is the result of a gross margin decline 62.7m, reflecting the reduction in revenue and underlying profit in the Music division.
Royalty, copyright, manufacturing and from operations discussed above.
distribution costs are all largely variable with revenue and have decreased in absolute terms in the year.
Marketing and promotion The Group underlying tax rate, before amortisation and costs, however, were lower in absolute terms but 2.6 percentage exceptional items, was 22% against 17.6% in the prior year.
points higher as a percentage of total sales.
Controlling marketing The increased rate reflected a movement in profitability towards spend is a key area of focus for the Music business this year.
countries where there were higher tax rates together with losses in territories where we cannot recognise the loss.
This was offset In April 2006, we announced a cost saving initiative to deliver by the settlement of prior liabilities.
30m of annualised savings for the Group.
During 2006 07, Note: we achieved 20m of savings, well ahead of the 10m planned, i Group profit from operations EBITA is before exceptional items and amortisation and before share of profit in associates.
and we remain on course for the full 30m in 2007 08.
Group revenue United Kingdom 16% Natasha Bedingfield EMI Music Publishing Rest of Europe 32% by region UK North America 30% Asia Pacific 18% Other 4% 24 As a result of the above, the Groups underlying profit after Amortisation and impairment of music copyrights and other taxation decreased from 131.2m to 48.9m, a decrease intangibles amounted to 52.7m in comparison with 49.9m of 62.7%.
i Underlying basic earnings per share was 5.8p, a decrease The minority interest cost reduced from a charge of 3.9m in of 10.4p from the prior year.
Underlying diluted earnings per the previous year to a charge of 1.5m this year.
This was the share, the calculation of which includes the impact of the consequence of reduced profitability in the Music business in potential conversion of convertible bonds and related bond Japan in which there was a 45% minority share for eight and a interest together with the possible exercise of dilutive share half months of the year.
In December 2006, we agreed to acquire options, decreased from 15.7p to 5.8p.
the 45% minority share from Toshiba for approximately 93m.
The cash cost is due to be paid in the first half of 2007 08.
Other items affecting earnings Exceptional items and amortisation comprise operating The loss attributable to members of the Company was 288.5 m exceptional costs, finance exceptional costs and amortisation in comparison with an attributable profit last year of 86.1m.
of music copyrights and intangibles.
As announced in April 2007, the Board is suspending dividend The Group is reporting operating exceptional costs excluding payments until the benefits of the restructuring process have amortisation of 256.3m compared with income of 4.0m in been fully realised.
The interim dividend of 2p per share was the prior year.
Operating exceptional costs are net of a 50.2m paid on 2 April 2007. gain on disposal of property including the sale and leaseback transactions completed for our offices in Tokyo and the Reported results Capitol Tower in Los Angeles and a gain following settlement Total Group loss from operations including share of associates of an infringement case with Bertelsmann AG in March.
was 156.7 m in comparison with a profit of 205.6m last The exceptional costs include 191.5m for our restructuring year.
This decrease was entirely due to the decline in revenue programmes announced in April 2006 and January 2007 compounded by exceptional costs of 309.0m this year largely headcount and roster reduction and the results of our compared to 45.9m last year.
balance sheet review announced on 12 January 2007 and concluded as anticipated on 31 March 2007.
The review Total loss before taxation was 263.6 m compared to a profit of resulted in a charge of 164.0m reported as exceptional this 118.1m in the prior year.
This decrease reflected the reduction year.
The final elements of this years exceptional cost are a in Group profit from operations above and a change in the finance 0.2m loss on revaluation of investments and 7.6m for aborted exceptional from net income to a net cost.
Cash flow and net borrowings The Group is reporting finance exceptional net costs relating Improvement in cash conversion and overall cash management to remeasurements and refinancing costs of 17.3m remains a key area of focus for the Group.
The net cash inflow compared to net income of 4.7m last year.
Finance from operating activities was 7.3m, a significant reduction exceptionals include the loss on revaluation to fair value of the from last years inflow of 188.3m, reflecting a significant working convertible bond derivative of 5.7m 2005 06: 4.1m gain, capital outflow in the Music division as a result of changes in the loss on revaluation of the Eurobond embedded call feature trading patterns, the costs of our restructuring programme of 21.3m 2005 06 8.2m gain and the foreign exchange announced in January 2007 and the lower EBITA reported gain on Euro borrowings of 8.1m 2005 06: 4.1m loss.
The finance exceptional net costs for 2006 07 include exceptional refinancing costs of 1.1m in connection with After the net cash inflow from operating activities, we had cash the refinancing programme carried out in March 2007 inflows of 65.8m for investment activity and cash inflows of 2005 06: 5.2m refinancing programme carried out in 85.1m for financing activity including an outflow of 50.8m for July 2005. dividends.
Taking into account the gain on exchange of foreign currency denominated borrowings of 43.7m, year-end net Note: i Before exceptional items and amortisation.
debt increased by 24.7m from 879.5m to 904.2m.
Brad Paisley Take That EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing USA UK 25 Operating and financial review continued The net cash inflow from operations after investing activities Financial instruments held by the Group comprise derivatives, has approximated the operating result of both divisions in borrowings, cash and liquid resources and other financial recent years.
assets and liabilities, their purpose being to raise finance for the Groups operations.
Treasury policies prohibit their use for Funding and liquidity speculative purposes.
The equity share capital and share premium Interest rate risk management of the Group comprises fully paid Ordinary Shares of 14p.
The Group borrows in various currencies and uses swaps, caps Further details of the equity are provided in Note 26 of the and collars to manage interest rate exposure.
The Group policy is Financial statements.
that a minimum of 25% of the Groups term borrowings should be at fixed capped rates.
At 31 March 2007, the following interest instruments were in place to achieve this objective: Our cash requirements in excess of cash generated by An interest rate swap on US$500m where EMI receives operations are largely funded by borrowings under arrangements an 8.375% fixed rate and pays a floating rate of three-month with commercial banks and debt raised in the capital markets.
LIBOR 465 base points, maturing in August 2009.
An interest rate swap on 425m where EMI receives an Current funding arrangements include: 8.625% fixed rate and pays a floating rate of three-month US$500m 8.375% Guaranteed Notes due August 2009: EURIBOR 440 base points, maturing in October 2013.
325m 8.25% stepped up to 9.75% Sterling Bonds due This is used as a fair value hedge for the 425m 8.625% May 2008: Senior Notes, due October 2013.
425m 8.625% Senior Notes due October 2013: US$243.3m 5.25% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds, due After taking into account the above instruments, 65% 2010 unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased 2006: 58.6% of the Groups gross debt is at floating interest and cancelled: and, rates and is, therefore, exposed to the risk of increased interest a two-year 700m bank facility arranged in March 2007. rates.
Floating rate debt arises largely from the two swap instruments mentioned above.
The effect of a 1% increase in We seek to have sufficient facilities available to meet the interest rates for all of the Groups floating rate debt would result anticipated needs of the Group for the period covered by the in an annual increase of approximately 6.9m in the Groups net Groups budget and Medium-Term Plan.
Facility levels in 2006 07 finance charge excluding post-retirement benefit finance costs.
The 700m revolving credit facility enables us to manage the seasonal requirements of the business when Further detail of interest rate instruments is provided in Note 15 borrowings are likely to peak.
Net borrowing peaked at of the Financial statements.
Foreign currency risk management If appropriate, debt is refinanced prior to maturity.
This may be The Group faces currency exposure from exchange rate to take advantage of improved terms in financial markets or to fluctuation against Sterling.
Balance sheet exposures are match a change in revenue streams generated by the business.
hedged to the extent that overseas liabilities, including borrowings, provide a natural hedge.
Group policy is neither In March 2007, the Group signed a new two-year 700m credit to undertake additional balance sheet hedging measures nor to facility with a group of banks.
The two-year facility replaced a hedge profit and loss account translation exposure.
Transaction revolving credit facility 450m and provided the financing for the exposures are hedged, where there are material items that have purchase of the Toshiba EMI minority and the costs associated a high probability of occurring, with the use of forward with the restructuring project.
More information is given in exchange rate contracts.
Note 15 of the Financial statements.
With this exception, the Groups funding sources have not changed during the year.
The Groups profit and cash flows are denominated in many currencies across the world, the most significant outside the UK In its trading statement on 18 April 2007, the Group announced being the US Dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
The income that it was examining the potential securitisation of its Music statement is translated at weighted average exchange rates for Publishing assets, which it is hoped will be completed by the the financial year.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the rates end of this financial year.
The average term of the net debt at 31 March 2007 was 4.4 years against 5.4 years as at the last year end.
Our debt is structured to match revenue streams in local currency, thereby providing natural currency hedges.
Our main Treasury policy committed banking facilities are provided in the UK and the US.
Treasury activity is carried out under a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee At 31 March 2007, the Groups gross debt was split 29.2% US reviewed the policy framework during the year.
Control and Dollars 2006: 38.6%, 46.1% Sterling 2006: 30.4%, 24.2% authority is delegated to the Treasury Management Euro 2006: 30.2% and 0.5% other currencies 2006: 0.8%.
Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Credit risk management The Groups Treasury activity is managed by a specialised team Details on our credit risk management are provided in Note 15 based at Group headquarters in London.
All debt negotiations of the Financial statements.
and cash management initiatives are directed by this team.
Borrowings raised centrally are lent to operating subsidiaries on commercial terms.
Where appropriate, cash pooling and sweeping systems are in place to make use of surplus cash in local bank accounts and ensure maximum efficiency in the use of cash resources across the Group.
26 Amy Winehouse EMI Music Publishing UK Amy Winehouses second album Back To Black propelled the singer-songwriter to international success following its release in 2006.
Her self-penned single Rehab was a top 10 hit in the UK, and earned Winehouse a prestigious win in the Best Contemporary Song category at the 2007 Ivor Novello Awards.
27 Operating and financial review continued Pensions products may, if not offset by increasing digital revenues, be likely The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout to result in reduced revenues and profits in our recorded music the world.
The main scheme, which covers employees in the UK, division.
Additionally, it may have a negative impact on our music is the EMI Group Pension Fund the UK Fund.
The UK Fund is publishing business which generates a significant portion of its of the defined benefit type, as are the Groups pension schemes revenues from mechanical royalties, primarily from the sale in Germany and Japan.
With the exception of these schemes, of music in CD and other recorded music formats.
the other defined benefit schemes operated on behalf of the Group are not material in size.
Staff engaged in other countries Our business is in transition are covered by local arrangements which are usually of the We are positioning our business to capitalise on the opportunities defined contribution type.
and to meet the challenges presented by the digital distribution of music content.
Legitimate digital product and service offerings As a consequence of the triennial actuarial valuation of the are still in the early stages of development and their ultimate UK fund as at 31 March 2003, the Group resumed annual impact on our business cannot be predicted with certainty.
These contributions in respect of future service to the UK fund with new business models may not develop in a way which generates effect from 1 April 2004.
This resulted in a cash outflow of significant profits for our business or they may result in lower or approximately 9.0m in 2005 06.
These contributions will less profitable sales for us than comparable physical sales.
continue until the outcome of the next triennial valuation is It may also be difficult for us to obtain transparency of revenues known.
generated by our digital partners.
There are many and varied structures for exploiting music digitally and some of the value Full reporting of the Groups pension fund costs and the chain models can be opaque.
The transition to new digital adequacy of funding of its major plans is given in Note 25 of modes of business requires significant investments in areas the Financial statements.
such as new IT infrastructure and management systems and also requires many new business relationships to be 8.
Risks and uncertainties established and managed.
Our business faces a number of risks and uncertainties.
The principal risks and uncertainties are discussed below.
We believe Piracy we have in place a robust process for identifying and managing Organised commercial physical piracy, the existence of illegal these risks.
In 2003, we appointed a full-time dedicated Group internet file sharing networks and the ubiquity of technological Risk Director who steers an annual process of identifying risks to devices which enable unauthorised consumer copying of music our business, assessing the severity of each of the risks identified content, all represent risks to our business.
The IFPI estimates and developing and installing controls within the business to that the global traffic of pirated physical product was worth eliminate or alleviate the risks where practicable.
The Group US$4.5bn in 2005 based on pirate prices.
Internet technology Chief Financial Officer chairs a Risk Management Steering has made it possible for computer users to share unauthorised Committee which is drawn from executive management in all digital versions of music recordings without the permission of sectors and disciplines within our business.
The findings and the copyright owners and without paying royalties to holders assessments of the Risk Management Steering Committee of applicable intellectual property or other rights.
As a result, are brought to the attention of the Boards Audit Committee a large portion of our content is potentially subject to widespread for discussion and approval on an annual basis.
dissemination on the internet without an economic return to us.
We are working to control these problems by lobbying Declining recorded music sales governments, by supporting legitimate digital distributors The value of the worldwide market for recorded music has and through collective legal action by the music industry declined by 24% since 2000 according to data from the IFPI the against unauthorised uploaders of music files.
Successes in worldwide recording industry association.
Economic recession, legal proceedings against illegal peer-to-peer websites, such as physical piracy, illegal downloading and growing competition for ZoekMP3 in the Netherlands and Kuro in Taiwan, are beginning discretionary consumer spending and retail shelf space have all to reduce the availability of unauthorised free music downloads contributed to this decline.
A continuing decline in sales of physical on the internet but online theft continues to be at high levels.
The Fray Ozzy Osbourne EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing USA UK 28 We remain dependent on the introduction of stronger copyright laws, rules and regulations in these jurisdictions may result in protection laws and more stringent enforcement of current laws.
Additionally, changes in government policy, Advances in technology mean that new ways to disseminate legislation or regulatory interpretation in any of the markets in unauthorised copies of our music content continue to emerge which we operate may adversely affect our results.
and hence the challenge of combating piracy is on-going.
Our results from operations and our financial position may suffer if Certain government bodies or agencies may instigate inquiries or efforts to stem piracy are not effective or succeed only partially.
investigations into companies operating within the music industry.
Industry structure and competitive environment Legislation could be enacted or interpreted which could affect our The industry in which we operate is highly competitive.
relationships with certain artists or could enable some artists to Competition amongst record labels for artists and amongst music recapture rights in certain recordings.
In the US, there have been publishers for songwriters could result in higher royalty payments attempts in recent years to modify or reinterpret existing legislation or failure to attract and retain key talent.
This would negatively that would limit the length of relationships that record companies impact our results from operations.
The intense competition can have with recording artists or that would enable recording amongst record companies for shelf space and retailer promotion artists to terminate licences or assignments of rights in their could result in lower prices and or higher marketing expenses.
Whilst these legislative initiatives have not This would have an adverse impact on our revenues and our progressed, there can be no certainty that legislation will not profits from operations.
Declining prices for competing be formulated which could negatively affect our business.
entertainment products such as DVDs and video games, as well as the emergence of totally new products, could result in Whilst the period of copyright protection has been increased reduced demand for music content which would have a for sound recordings in the US and for musical works i. e. negative impact on our business.
compositions in the US and in the European Union, the period of protection for sound recordings in the European Union and Retail environment many other countries outside the US remains at 50 years.
As a There has been a significant shift in the retail environment for consequence, over time a portion of our catalogue within Europe music.
In many countries, mass merchandisers have been taking will become out of copyright or in the public domain.
This will increased retail market share in physical sales.
This has given become increasingly significant over time as some of the major them significantly greater negotiating leverage and hence resulted seminal recordings in our catalogue were recorded in the 1960s.
in downward pressure on our revenues and profits.
Specialist When recordings fall into the public domain, we no longer have music retailers have been losing market share which has, in the exclusive right to exploit them and third parties will have the certain circumstances, resulted in a significant weakening of their ability to market and sell those same sound recordings in direct businesses.
This could have an adverse impact on our business competition with us and without financial compensation to us or through factors such as reduced availability of our catalogue at our artists.
We are actively lobbying governments and legislators physical retailers and increased bad debts.
The retail landscape to increase the period of copyright protection beyond current for digital music sales is in the early stages of development and it levels, but there can be no certainty that such efforts will succeed.
is difficult to predict with certainty how this will evolve over time As a result, our ability to exploit our back catalogue and, therefore, and the impact that this will have on our business.
The market for our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely online music downloads is currently dominated in many countries, affected in future years.
notably the US and UK, by Apple Computer, Inc. s iTunes service, although other digital retailers are emerging over time.
Impact of external bodies External bodies, such as government entities, industry Management of artist and songwriter associations or local third-party collection societies, have roster and release schedule significant influence on some of our revenues.
The two largest We are dependent on identifying, signing and retaining talented sources of income of EMI Music Publishing are mechanical artists and songwriters whose new releases are well received and performance royalties.
In the US, mechanical royalty rates and whose music will continue to generate revenues as part of are subject to negotiation under the US Copyright Act and our catalogue for years to come.
Competition for such talent is outside the US are typically negotiated on an industry-wide basis.
intense and our financial results would be adversely affected if Performance rates are usually set by performing rights societies we fail to identify, sign and retain artists and songwriters under in our major territories and may be subject to challenge by terms that are economically attractive to us.
In addition, the timing, licensees of those performing rights.
These processes of setting existence or absence of superstar releases can have a material mechanical and performance royalties may result in the setting of impact on our results.
rates at levels lower than those for which we would wish and may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to increase the profitability Management talent of our music publishing business.
The success of our business depends upon the continuing contributions of our executive officers and other key operating For our recorded music business, mechanical royalties are a personnel.
Although we plan for management succession, significant expense, whilst revenues from the US satellite radio should these officers or key employees not remain with us, industry have been driven by a compulsory licence.
Changes to our operations could be adversely affected until suitable the rates or the nature of compulsory licence agreements or the replacements with appropriate experience can be found.
speed of licensing and collection of monies by these third parties could negatively affect our revenues and profitability.
Geographic spread We operate on a global basis, and are thus subject to a range Business interruption of risks, such as currency fluctuation, capital repatriation, varied In certain major territories, particularly the US, Europe, Japan regulatory and tax regimes, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, and Australia, we source our physical product through one higher interest rates, recessionary trends, political or financial primary manufacturer.
Although the industry for CD manufacture instability, varying commercial trade terms and different legal has excess supply, our physical product flow could be interrupted protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
if one of our manufacturing partners had difficulty meeting our requirements.
For digital products, we utilise a third party for some Legal and regulatory environment of the digitisation and other supply chain elements used to provide We operate globally in complex legal and regulatory environments digital retailers with our music.
If the digital supply chain partner that often vary by jurisdiction.
The failure to comply with applicable had difficulty meeting our requirements, our dissemination of 29 Operating and financial review continued digital music could be hindered.
In some key territories, the these items in our consolidated Financial statements, even if their distribution of our CDs and DVDs is handled by a sole distributor.
value has not changed in their original currency.
These translations Whilst we have the ability to terminate these arrangements could, therefore, result in apparent significant changes to our and switch supplier if the existing distributor fails to meet its results of operations from period to period.
obligations, this could lead to a temporary interruption in the supply of our physical product to our customers.
Fraud We maintain procedures, systems and controls which enable us We may outsource certain other areas of operations.
The failure to restrict the possible occurrence of fraud in our business and of our outsourcing partners to fulfil properly their obligations to to detect incidences promptly when they arise.
These are us could result in an interruption in our business processes.
reviewed on a regular basis and where necessary amended and strengthened.
However, despite these measures, the strength Fluctuation in results of operations and cash flows may of an internal control system is ultimately dependent on the affect our ability to service our indebtedness quality and integrity of management and staff.
Any such system Our revenues and profits, like those of other companies in the therefore can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance music business, are driven by the number and quality of against the possibility of fraudulent activity taking place within products that our recording artists and songwriters release and our business.
Although uncommon, fraud is a risk to our business, the consumer demand for these releases.
We also make the occurrence of which may adversely affect our results.
non-returnable advance payments to artists and songwriters that impact on our operating cash flows.
Resources associated marketing expenditures and advance payments The resources which support the Group in its pursuit of key are largely based on business considerations and other reasons objectives are: rather than the timing of financial reporting periods.
As a result, there may be significant fluctuations from reporting period to A deep and diverse portfolio of music assets generating reporting period.
strong results on a consistent basis For many years, EMIs recording artists and writers have A substantial fluctuation or sustained period of lower than created an extensive collection of quality music, diverse in expected revenues or profit performance may constrain our ability its worldwide scope and breadth of genres and styles.
The to service the costs of our capital structure.
Our debt facilities of portfolio of recordings and musical compositions maintains 1.7bn are sizeable and long term in nature.
The interest costs strong demand every year.
EMI Music has a catalogue of associated with our debt levels are considerable and portions music recordings made up of over 3m tracks including of the debt will need to be repaid over time.
Hitherto, we have classics by The Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Pink Floyd, also distributed a significant dividend to our shareholders twice David Bowie, Queen and the Beach Boys, as well as each year although, as stated elsewhere in this Annual Report, contemporary releases by artists including Robbie Williams, dividend payments have been suspended.
If our cash flows Kylie Minogue, Coldplay, Joss Stone, Norah Jones, Lily Allen, from operations are negatively affected by industry or business Corinne Bailey Rae, The Kooks and 30 Seconds To Mars.
performance, we may have difficulty in meeting the costs of EMI Music Publishing has the worlds biggest catalogue of servicing our debt and in making dividend distributions musical arrangements with over 1m copyrights owned, to our equity holders.
Both our historic and current catalogues continue to generate high levels of usage and We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures produce recurrent cash flows.
We currently have interests in a number of joint ventures and may, in the future, enter into further joint ventures as a means of Both EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing continue to add conducting our business.
We cannot fully control the operations content to their respective catalogues to ensure they maintain and the assets of our joint ventures, nor can we make major their status as the exciting and dynamic resource that they decisions with respect to our joint ventures unless our jointare today.
Accordingly, although we may have the ability to veto decisions with respect to our joint ventures, Long-term composer and artist agreements we are not in a position to make unilateral decisions.
This may Our agreements with recording artists and songwriters constrain the ability of our joint ventures to take action.
In normally give us the right to the creative output of those addition, we structure certain of our relationships with artists recording artists and songwriters over several years.
As a and songwriters as joint ventures.
result, when they are successful we continue to share the future financial benefits of that success and to recover our Pension fund valuations initial investment many times over.
We regularly enter into We maintain certain defined benefit plans around the world, the new contracts with our best artists and songwriters even largest of which is our UK pension plan.
The asset values of our when they have fulfiled all of their contractual obligations to pension funds may rise or fall over time depending on a variety us.
In 2005, the multi-platinum, Grammy award winning band of factors, including in particular, increases or declines in share Korn signed to Virgin Records in the US in an innovative prices.
Pension funding requirements are dependent upon various multi-album, multi-rights deal.
Both Kate Bush and David factors, including interest rate levels, asset returns, regulatory Gilmour, the guitarist and vocalist from Pink Floyd, have been requirements and changes to pension plan benefits.
Absent on EMIs roster for over 30 years and continue to release new favourable changes to these factors, we may have to satisfy material today.
In addition to EMI Music Publishings exciting any under-funded amounts of our pension plans through new writers including James Blunt and Beyonc Knowles, cash contributions over time.
established songwriters such as Sting and Cathy Dennis remain active and enjoy success in terms of both their backCurrency exchange rate fluctuations catalogue and more recent releases.
Equally important, our The reporting currency for our Financial statements is Sterling.
contracts provide us with flexibility such that if success does We have substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and costs not occur or diminishes, we can end the great majority of denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
To prepare our our contractual relationships with relatively minimal cost.
consolidated Financial statements we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into Sterling at then-applicable Established global position exchange rates.
Consequently, increases and decreases in the EMI is one of the oldest, most established music companies value of Sterling versus other currencies will affect the amount of in the world.
We are a global business with more than 90 30 companies active in over 50 countries and with revenues In April 2007, Roger Ames was appointed head of EMI Music spread across all geographic regions of the world.
Previously, Roger had been working as a on revenue, our recorded music and our music publishing senior advisor to EMI Music and, prior to that, had been businesses are amongst the largest in the world.
Our balanced Chairman and CEO of WMG and executive vice president portfolio of global businesses create a more stable platform of PolyGram.
for us as macroeconomic trends in one country are balanced and mitigated by trends in other parts of the world.
Our We are committed to maintaining superior management success in breaking new artists, such as Lily Allen and KT and creative executives at the regional and local level as well.
Tunstall, and promoting and sustaining the careers of our We focus on ensuring that we have highly capable leaders superstars ensures that we remain one of the leading music throughout the organisation and use our talent identification companies in the world.
and performance review processes to develop and expand upon our team of creative and business-minded professionals.
Our management and employees The strength of the EMI name enables us continually to We enjoy great depth of management expertise at both the attract the best musical and executive talent.
corporate and the operating levels and this year we have seen a number of changes in our management.
Trade marks Our trade marks and trade names are important to our In March 2007, Roger Faxon became the Chairman and business.
We register our major trade marks and trade CEO of EMI Music Publishing, the culmination of the names in each country where we believe it is necessary for succession plan that EMI Group announced for its New Yorkthe effective protection of our business.
Our major trade based publishing division in January 2005.
Faxon joined EMI marks that are owned worldwide include EMI, Capitol, Blue in 1994 and his roles have included President and co-CEO of Note, Hemisphere, Now, Now Thats What I Call Music!, Best EMI Music Publishing and Chief Financial Officer of EMI Group....
The Virgin trade mark and the Throughout the 1980s Faxon worked at a number of film Virgin signature trade mark have been licensed in perpetuity and television companies, including Tri-Star and Columbia exclusively to us by the Virgin Group for use worldwide in pictures, where his roles included senior executive vice connection with the music business.
We monitor and defend president of Columbia Pictures.
against activities that might infringe or dilute our trade marks and trade names.
In addition to Rogers appointment, EMI Music Publishing renewed the contracts of more than ten key senior executives 10.
Environmental matters in order to ensure a degree of stability in the new senior We recognise that our businesses have an impact on the physical management team.
environment and we have identified our key issues as energy use and carbon management, other resource use, and waste As part of the restructuring programme announced in management.
We have policies and reporting procedures in January 2007, Eric Nicoli took over direct responsibility for EMI place to ensure that we measure these impacts and work to Music and has arranged the business into three geographic minimise them.
In the UK, for example, 100% of our electricity divisions UK & Ireland, International and North America.
requirements are met through renewable energy sources.
During Tony Wadsworth will continue as Chairman and CEO of UK 2006 07, our worldwide energy use decreased by 12%: the & Ireland and will play a critical role in providing repertoire for majority of this reduction was due to the sale, in the previous global as well as local distribution and in establishing and financial year, of both our manufacturing operations in Japan sharing best practice for the Group.
Jean Francois Cecillon, and our European central distribution facility in the Netherlands.
formerly Chairman and CEO of EMI Music Continental Europe, Associated carbon dioxide emissions dropped by 15% in was promoted in January 2007 to the newly created role absolute terms but rose 1% when related to revenue.
of Chairman and CEO, EMI Music International.
He has responsibility for EMI Musics businesses in Continental We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations in Europe, Japan, Asia, Latin America and Australasia.
Cecillon the countries in which we operate and believe that our has over 20 years of experience in the entertainment industry.
existing businesses are compliant with all relevant legislation.
Rob Thomas Beyonc Ludacris EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing USA USA USA 31 Operating and financial review continued In connection with former operations we have been, and may 12.
Critical accounting policies and use of estimates become again, responsible for the costs of investigating or Our discussion and analysis of the Groups financial position clearing up contaminated properties: to date, any such costs and results of operations are based upon our consolidated have not been material.
Financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
More information on our performance in environmental management is included on page 36 and in our annual The preparation of these Financial statements requires our social responsibility reports, which can be viewed at management to make estimates and judgements that affect the www.
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Social and community issues EMIs responsibilities as a business also extend to the On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those communities in which it operates.
We are committed to related to sales returns, bad debts, intangible assets, income fair treatment of all our stakeholders artists, songwriters, taxes, and contingencies and litigation.
Historical experience and employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, governments various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the and society at large.
We have a range of policies in place to circumstances form the basis for making judgements about the support this, including a Standards of Business Conduct policy carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent for employees which underlines the importance of integrity, from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
ethics, objectivity and accountability in our dealings with others.
Our significant accounting policies are detailed in full on pages Any social and ethical issues that could cause risk to the business 60 to 63 of the Financial statements.
The key policies are are taken into account as part of the annual risk review process summarised in this section.
While these issues are important, we do not think that they pose any significant risk.
On occasion, management has to exercise judgement in the application of the Groups accounting policies, for example, the EMI has an active and on-going community investment determination of reliable estimates of licence income.
Globally, the main causes we support are youth income is recorded on an accruals basis where reliable estimates and education, arts and culture, and health and welfare.
At Group can be made of future receivables relating to income for the level, we focus on promoting music education and access to current financial year.
Where such reliable estimates cannot music.
This ensures that our community investment activities be made, income is only recorded once received.
are aligned with our core business: we believe it is also the way in which the business can best utilise its energy, creativity and Another area of judgement affecting reported revenue and net expertise to deliver long-term benefits to the community.
Our income is managements estimate of product sales that will be flagship initiative is the EMI Music Sound Foundation, now returned.
In determining the estimate of product sales that will celebrating its tenth anniversary year: the Foundation has to be returned, management analyses historical return patterns, date awarded over 2.7m to schools and individuals to help current economic trends, changes in customer demand and boost music education in the UK.
Other key partnerships include acceptance of our products, as well as changes in our terms Londons Roundhouse, Teach First, the London Sinfonietta, the of trade.
Based on this information, management reserves a Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea, the California Institute percentage of product sales that provide the customer with of the Arts and Skidmores Summer Jazz Institute.
EMI is included in the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Revenue recognition Sustainability Index, both of which assess companies Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the social, environmental and ethical policies and performance.
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised after making There is a wide range of information available on our website, provision in respect of expected future returns of goods and www.
Information on specific initiatives services supplied by the Group prior to the balance sheet during 2006 07 can also be found on pages 34 to 36 of this report.
Jay-Z Kelly Clarkson Pink EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing USA USA USA 32 Accounting for jointly controlled operations Under IFRS, actuarial valuations of our principal defined benefit The Group has a number of jointly controlled operations pension schemes for accounting purposes are required to be where there is no separate legal entity.
An example of such an carried out every year.
The latest triennial actuarial valuation for arrangement is the Now albums which use content from a our UK pension plan for funding purposes is underway.
Intangible assets The expenses that the Group incurs, and the share of the Intangible assets include music copyrights and other intangibles.
income that the Group earns from the sale of goods by Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost, these jointly controlled operations, are included in the Income whilst those acquired as part of a business acquisition are statement.
Where EMI distributes the joint product, our share of capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
the revenue and costs associated are reported line by line in the Income statement.
Where EMI does not distribute the product, Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite lives are the net profit attributable to EMI is reported within revenue.
amortised on a systematic basis over their economic useful lives.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if events or changes The assets that the Group controls, and the liabilities that the in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be Group incurs, in respect of these jointly controlled operations impaired.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and are included in the balance sheet.
adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Accounting for advances to artists, writers and Intangible assets created within the business that cannot be repertoire owners distinguished from the cost of developing the business as a whole In the ordinary course of business, the Group pays advances, are not capitalised.
Any relevant expenditure is charged against and other expenses recoupable from future royalties, to profit from operations in the period in which the expenditure is performing artists, songwriters, producers and third-party incurred.
One area of judgement affecting our Income statement is managements estimate of the recoverability of Share-based payments those advances on future royalties paid to artists, songwriters, The share option programme allows certain Group employees producers and third-party repertoire owners.
to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a Advances are initially capitalised on our balance sheet to the corresponding increase in equity.
The expense is spread over extent that our management believes them to be recoverable.
the period during which the employees become unconditionally This assessment of recoverability is based upon the current and entitled to the options.
past popularity of the artists, the initial commercial acceptability of the product, the current and past popularity of the genre of A binomial lattice model is used by actuaries to calculate the fair music to which the product belongs, and projected revenue value of the share option at the grant date.
In applying the model, performance.
Based on this information, management expenses actuaries must use judgement about uncertain events including, the portion of such advances that it believes is not recoverable.
but not limited to, interest rates, the dividend yield, the volatility of the share price over the expected term of the option based As revenue is generated by the product against which an on historic volatility up to the date of grant, staff turnover and advance was made, we expense through cost of sales the the probability of early exercise of the options.
portion of the capitalised advance which has been recouped.
Management regularly reviews the recoverability of capitalised Judgement also exists in determining the point at which advances and will make a provision to the extent that it no employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
longer believes an advance to be recoverable.
These include the Groups best estimate of the number of awards that will ultimately vest and satisfaction of relevant performance Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits criteria.
The Group operates three major defined benefit pension schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the schemes Measurement of financial derivatives is determined separately for each scheme using the projected Under IFRS, certain debt and related derivative instruments are unit actuarial valuation method.
remeasured to fair value, with the change in fair value shown in the Income statement within finance charges or through reserves In reaching the valuations, actuaries must use judgement about where the Standards allow.
uncertain events including, but not limited to, discount rates, expected rate of return on plan assets, participation levels, The Group has debt and derivative instruments that require fair salary increases and expected healthcare cost trend rates.
valuing at each balance sheet date.
The various elements are: the remeasurement of debt to market value offset by the The actuarial valuations and the judgements therein form the remeasurement of applicable interest rate swaps to market basis for: value where hedge accounting can be adopted : the service cost charged against profit: the remeasurement of the conversion option within our the expected long-term returns on defined benefit scheme US$243m convertible bond: and, assets and the interest on the defined benefit obligation the remeasurement of foreign currency denominated debt included as net finance charges in the income statement: using exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Where the actuarial gains and losses charged or credited directly to borrowing hedges a net investment, the change in fair value is reserves through the statement of recognised income and booked to reserves.
The change in fair value of any additional expense: and, borrowing is recognised through the Income statement.
actuarially calculated surpluses or deficits on the defined benefit schemes included within the consolidated balance The remeasurement of these elements can give rise to significant sheet.
amounts within finance charges in the Income statement.
Factors that affect the remeasurements include changes in interest rates, All these amounts are sensitive to the assumptions made EMI credit spread, exchange rates and the EMI share price.
above adjustments have no cash impact.
