Operating and financial review In the past three years, we have achieved like-for-like top line growth of approximately 208m 36% and operating profit growth of approximately 30m 51%.
We have the FY07 was another exciting year, during which we continued our ability to design and build high-performance equipment, integrated momentum on top line growth and further improved our operating work stations or complete systems, and we have one of the most margins.
In the past three years, we have achieved like-for-like top line extensive offerings in the industry to meet this demand with our growth of approximately 208m 36% and operating profit growth of Accelerated CookingTechnology and Enerlogic products.
In addition, in FY07, we enhanced Furthermore, we have the infrastructure to support our customers shareholder value significantly, increasing dividends by 47% and globally with kitchen optimisation, culinary support and after returning approximately 82m through a share buy-back programme.
The business outlook for the year ahead is positive.
Although materials cost inflation has reduced from the record highs that we saw during We move into FY08 with continued momentum after upbeat trade FY07, the impact of inflation still represents a significant challenge.
shows at NAFEM Atlanta and HOST Milan at which we introduced We have a proven track record of mitigating these impacts and expect many more new products.
We expect to continue to capitalise on to do so in FY08 through the benefits of price increases, continued significant opportunities in dynamic markets.
focus on Lean manufacturing and Group-wide purchasing initiatives Global food and beverage end markets are forecast to grow including materials substitution and sourcing of components from low annually at approximately 6.3% over the next few years, driven by cost countries.
a number of fundamental factors including changing consumer We are committed to continuing to enhance shareholder value demands for more choices, speed, convenience and concerns over by focusing on investment in the business through capital the environment.
Increasing consumer affluence and busy lifestyles expenditure and acquisitions.
In addition we will target dividend are worldwide phenomena and are influencing developed and, payments at 2.5x earnings cover and, if appropriate, use share increasingly, emerging markets such as China, India and Eastern buy-backs as a balancing tool to our 2x leverage goal described later Europe where Western style food is increasing its appeal.
In general, the growth of multi-unit operators around the world Summary is outpacing the industry.
These operators include hotels resorts, contract caterers, limited service restaurants, casual dining chains, FY07 was another exciting and successful year.
The following pages convenience stores and supermarkets.
Also the boundaries between set out our operating and financial review.
these segments are disappearing amid intense competition for consumer share.
These global players are gradually consolidating to fewer equipment suppliers who have the resources to provide profitable technological solutions and support them worldwide.
Approximately 50%60% of the equipment market is Dave McCulloch Chief Executive Officer replacement due to the large and ageing equipment base.
Opportunities here are enhanced by the fact that the replacement cycles are reducing as a result of increased usage as operators extend opening hours, and the obsolescence of existing equipment created by new technologies that can enhance speed and flexibility or reduce energy costs.
Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 21
