Finance Directors Review Benchmark measures In order to ensure consistency of reporting the group has, in common with other companies in its sector, identied measures of benchmark profit from operations, profit before tax and earnings per share which it believes will aid in understanding its business.
Benchmark results are stated excluding the results of businesses sold or terminated in the period, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring charges, exceptional items, profits and losses on sale of investments, profits and losses on sale of businesses, gains from negative goodwill, share-based payment expenses and net fair value remeasurement adjustments to financial instruments.
Revenue Group revenues grew by 11% to 586.8m 2006: 527.8m.
Excluding the businesses sold or terminated during the year, revenues increased by 13% to 555.4m 2006: 489.8m.
profit Benchmark profit before tax increased by 10% to 56.0m.
profit before tax decreased to 17.5m from 35.1m as a result of the high level of corporate activity and restructuring this year, which is discussed further in the Chairmans Statement.
Return on sales on a Benchmark basis decreased slightly to 10.1% from 10.4% reecting the sales mix of the group following the acquisitions made during the year.
The charge for amortisation of acquisition intangibles increased from 0.9m to 1.6m due to the impact of the acquisitions made during the current year.
Divisional performance Operating margins for both the Home Shopping and Educational Supplies divisions are discussed further within the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, as are average order values and retention rates within the Home Shopping division.
Within Educational Supplies, average order values were 201 2006: 211 reecting the impact of the difficult trading conditions during the year.
Within NRS, on-time collections and deliveries were 95% 2006: 92%, an improvement against the previous year.
Maintaining and improving these service levels is imperative for the continued growth and development of the NRS business.
Taxation The groups effective rate of tax, calculated on a Benchmark basis, has increased from 19.6% to 25.2%, the increase predominantly arising from the impact of the resolution of a number of outstanding tax issues in the prior year against which provisions were held.
The actual rate continues to be lower than the UK standard corporate tax rate, as a result of lower rates of company taxation in relation to the groups Hong Kong subsidiary, the utilisation of tax losses brought forward from prior periods, the impact of the share of profit from associates and tax losses available as a result of acquisitions.
Shareholder return and dividends Benchmark earnings per share were 50.17p compared to 48.33p last year.
Basic earnings per share were 19.33p in the year to 31 March 2007 compared to 35.58p last year.
The board has proposed a final dividend of 15.6p per share, a rise of 1.4p or 10% on last year.
The dividend for the year as a whole of 19.8p, a rise of 10% on last year, is covered 2.5 times by benchmark earnings.
Net assets Net assets amount to 122.8m, a small increase on last year.
This is equivalent to 144p per share.
Share Price and total shareholder return The share price of Findel ranged from a low of 526p to a high of 768p during the financial year.
On 31 March 2007 the mid market price was 692p, giving a market capitalisation of 588m at that date.
Total shareholder return the increase in the value of a share including reinvested dividends has been 795% in the ten years since the demerger of the group in 1996.
This compares favourably with the total shareholder return for the average for the FTSE 350 General Retailers which was 76% over the same period.
co. uk 5 Cash ow The groups free cash ow before acquisitions and nancing was an inow of 6.3m, compared with an outow of 18.3m in 2006.
This includes cash costs of 7.1m relating to the restructuring of the group undertaken during the year, along with contributions of 2.8m over and above the normal funding costs of the groups pension schemes.
Taxation payments reduced to 1.7m from 7.9m, principally due to the tax impact of the one-off costs incurred in the current and prior year.
Acquisition costs of 43.2m incurred during the year and the increased cost of borrowing increased interest costs in the year by 1.2m and 0.7m respectively.
Capital expenditure in 2007 decreased by 14% from 16.4m to 14.1m, equivalent to 169% of the depreciation charge in 2007.
Liquidity and funding The maturity and currency prole of the groups borrowings are shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
At 31 March 2007, 90% of the groups borrowings were drawn under long-term facilities, the earliest of which expires in March 2009, and there were undrawn committed facilities of 78.8m.
During the year, the group increased its revolving credit facility by 40m to 200m, this increase being used to fund the acquisitions made during the year.
Treasury and risk management The groups treasury function seeks to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
It does not engage in speculative transactions and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
It operates policies and procedures which are periodically reviewed by the board and is subject to regular audit control reviews.
Interest rate risk management The groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of xed and oating rate borrowings, and by the use of cap and oor derivative arrangements, details of which are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
The group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate uctuations.
At 17.6m, net interest costs were 2.4m higher than last year.
This principally reects increased interest costs arising from the 43.2m expenditure on acquisitions in the year and the increased cost of borrowing.
The net interest charge was covered 4.2 times by benchmark operating profit.
Currency risk management An increasing proportion of the products sold through the groups Home Shopping division and the Educational Supplies division are procured through the groups Far East buying ofce.
The currency of purchase for these goods is principally the US Dollar, with a proportion being in Hong Kong Dollars.
The group has a policy of hedging these foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange purchase contracts.
Borrowing risk The groups exposure to borrowing risk is managed by dealing only with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could impact the performance of the group.
The group has a comprehensive system of risk management installed within all parts of its business to mitigate these risks as far as is possible, as described in detail in the Corporate Governance report on pages 15 and 16.
Home Shopping The Home Shopping division is signicantly impacted by movements in interest rates and the state of the wider consumer credit market.
Any adverse movement in interest rates could have a consequent adverse impact on the performance of the Home Shopping division.
The group undertakes appropriate interest rate hedging to mitigate this risk.
The Home Shopping industry is witnessing increased penetration of the market by internet based businesses challenging the historical dominance of catalogue based Home Shopping businesses.
The Home Shopping division has responded to this challenge and is fully e-enabled, leaving it well placed to respond.
During the year under review, internet sales grew by 35% and now account for 30% of all orders within our traditional Home Shopping credit business.
The businesses acquired during the year have a higher element of internet sales and we anticipate that the coming year will see internet sales in the Home Shopping division exceed 50%.
6 Educational Supplies The Educational Supplies division is inuenced by government spending on Education.
Any downward movement in government spending on Education may adversely impact the performance of the Educational Supplies division.
The government has reafrmed its continued spending priority on Education such that this risk is not perceived to be significant in the short term.
The Gershon report issued by the government suggested that significant savings were anticipated to be generated from Education spending through more efficient procurement techniques.
There is a risk that this expectation may lead to more pressure on prices and margins with an adverse impact on business performance.
As the Educational Supplies division is a large, efficient supplier of educational products, this may widen the opportunities available to the company due to its scale and efficiency.
Healthcare The NRS business is reliant on a small number of contracts for substantially all of its revenues.
There can be no guarantee that each of the contracts will be successfully renewed when the current contract terms expire.
However, the business is the market leader within the industry, and thereby it is well placed to renew its current contracts and successfully bid for any new contracts that are put to tender.
Finally, each of the groups trading divisions are dependent on third party carriers to distribute the groups products.
The group employs several carriers so as to spread this risk over a number of parties to avoid over dependence on a single carrier.
Exceptional costs Exceptional costs incurred during the year principally comprise the costs of a warehouse reorganisation in Home Shopping and the exit of all third party fullment contracts 7.5m, the final element of the reorganisation in Educational Supplies 4.3m and the initial phase of the major project to integrate our cash with order acquisitions 4.7m.
These costs have been reported as an exceptional charge against the operating profit of the respective divisions.
Loss on disposal of businesses Losses incurred on the disposal of businesses in the year principally comprise the disposal of the outlet stores within the Home Shopping division 16.5m and the loss on disposal of Home Farm Hampers 2.4m, following the strategic review undertaken during the year.
Again, these costs have been separately reported against the operating profit of the respective divisions.
Share of profit of associates The groups share of the profit generated by its associates decreased from 1.9m to 1m.
In the year to 31 March 2006, Associate companies comprised both Webb Group Limited Webb and Confetti Network Limited Confetti.
As a consequence of the acquisition of a controlling stake in the latter business on 24 November 2006, Confetti is only included as an associate in these financial statements for eight months of the financial year.
Minority interests Losses attributable to equity minority interests in 2007 of 0.1m relates to the share of losses attributable to the minority shareholders of Home Farm Hampers prior to the acquisition of the remaining 40% of that business on 13 October 2006.
The group disposed of the entire issued share capital of Home Farm Hampers on 7 March 2007.
Pensions The groups dened benefit pension schemes had reduced deficits at 31 March 2007.
To improve the funding of these schemes, the group made voluntary additional contributions totalling 2.8m during the year.
The net deficit for all retirement benefit schemes was 10.4m 2006: 12.6m net of tax relief at 31 March 2007.
The deficit is equal to around 1.8% of the groups market capitalisation and can prudently be resolved over a period of time.
Accounting Policies and Standards The principal accounting policies used by the group are shown on pages 32 to 36.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding periods.
David Dutton Group Finance Director www.
