20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:29 Page 6 Operating and financial review The group has delivered Summary Outlook significant growth this year Group review Our bus operations are expected to and we expext to make continue to improve in the new year.
Earnings from rail are anticipated to further progress in the 2007 2006 m m reduce due to lower government year to June 2008. subsidies and ongoing cost pressures, Revenue 1,826.9 1,463.6 partly offset by the new London Midland Operating profit 118.1 97.8 franchise starting in November.
The profit before tax 110.1 91.9 aviation services division needs to restore profit before tax 94.8 83.6 profitability and should benefit from Cash ow generated recently won contracts.
Overall, we from operations 191.2 116.9 expect to make further progress in the Earnings per year to June 2008. share basic 124.2p 108.1p Earnings per Divisional review share adjusted 140.7p 118.4p Dividends paid Bus and proposed 70.0p 56.0p Before exceptional items and amortisation 2007 2006 m m The group has delivered significant Revenue 514.0 460.0 growth this year.
Margin 10.9% 10.2% Operating profit was 118.1m, up 20.3m or 20.8% compared to last Revenue growth year.
profit before tax increased by Regulated 11.6% 5.5% 18.2m, or 19.8%, to 110.1m.
Deregulated 12.0% 19.4% Volume growth Our bus division delivered a strong Regulated set of results for the year, increasing Keith Ludeman miles operated 8.4% 1.3% revenue by 54.0m to 514.0m and Group chief executive Deregulated operating profit by 9.1m to 55.8m.
passenger journeys 6.8% 12.2% Growth in operating profit came from both the regulated operations in Before exceptional items and amortisation London and improvement in most of Our bus operations performed the deregulated bus businesses.
Nick Swift strongly in the year.
Revenue grew by Group finance director The largest part of the groups 54.0m, or 11.7%, to 514.0m, and revenue and operating profit growth operating profit increased by 9.1m, was from the rail division.
Margins improved increased by 326.4m to 1,071.3m by 0.7 percentage points to 10.9%.
and operating profit was up 23.6m Passenger and revenue growth more to 66.1m.
The increase consisted of than offset cost increases primarily due the full year benefit from changes in to payroll and engineering materials.
franchises held by the group last year, Insurance costs reduced by 27% as a and improved like for like performance, result of continued focus in this area.
led by passenger income growth.
Overall, fuel costs were similar to last Results for the aviation services year despite increases in volume division were disappointing.
Revenue consumption generated by operating fell by 17.1m to 241.6m.
Acquisitions accounted profit fell 12.4m to a loss of 3.8m, for approximately 6.8m of the increase including 1.3m of restructuring costs.
in revenue and 1.4m of the increase Most of the reduction was in the ground in operating profit.
Operating profits handling business, but cargo and car improved in both our regulated and parking were also below last year.
Cash ow from operations remained Regulated bus operations strong at 191.2m, or 161.9% of This was another good year for our operating profit.
Cash conversion is regulated bus operations in London a key strength of the business.
where the group grew to become the largest operator of local bus services Adjusted earnings per share increased under contract to TfL.
Regulated revenue by 18.8%, reecting the rise in profit increased by 11.6%, benefiting from an before tax less an increase in the profit 8.4% increase in the number of miles attributable to the 35% minority interest operated.
This reects the net addition of in our rail operations.
a number of new contracts associated with the western extension of the congestion charging zone which added 17 peak vehicles, rail replacement services, and the acquisition of Docklands Minibuses in September 2006.
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 7 12 34 6 5 Performance Providing a punctual and reliable 1 5 service to customers, be they individual London Generals Putney garage was Recently completed bus lanes have passengers, local and central government, crowned TfL garage of the year at the improved Go North East journey times international airlines, airports or NHS UK Bus Awards.
by an average of four to six minutes during trusts, is key to the groups success.
peak hours in places such as the 2 From our London bus business regularly Felling bypass.
Improvements to Southeasterns timetable topping the performance league tables have catered for the ever increasing demand 6 for TfL, to Southern exceeding its public on the network, including additional services London Central London General prides performance target for on-time arrivals, to London in the morning.
itself on being a high quality operation, Go-Ahead companies are at the forefront regularly at the very top of the performance of delivering the high quality services 3 league tables produced by TfL.
We are that todays travelling public expect.
aviance continued to improve service consistently Londons best performing large delivery throughout the year, averaging operator for both high and low frequency 99% on time performance for our biggest services and score highly in other areas ground handling customer bmi.
including both driver quality and engineering 4 quality monitoring.
Strong performance of Southern services saw the company pass its Public Performance Measure PPM target of 88.74%, achieving 89.14% of services as arriving on-time.
7 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 8 Operating and financial review continued A key part of the success of our London network.
Routes are clustered into Our Go South Coast business benefited bus division is the delivery of excellent a hierarchy, with the highest level from both a full year contribution from operating performance.
Our London of investment being channelled into two acquisitions and a rationalisation Central and London General operations the busiest routes.
The restructuring of management and administrative frequently top the TfL quality league has been supported by a significant functions.
This led to a strong underlying tables.
Mileage operated before losses investment in the bus eet, with 50 new improvement in operating profit.
due to trafc was 99.6% of the scheduled buses replacing 70 older vehicles and Hants and Dorset Trim was relocated to route maximum for the year and excess with a number undergoing refurbishment.
new and expanded premises at Eastleigh.
waiting time for passengers averaged The routes were strongly marketed The Southampton based Marchwood one minute.
This resulted in a new with distinctive route branding, coupled operations were acquired in October record level of quality incentive bonuses, with improvements in service quality.
2006 and were integrated into the reaching 13.0m this year compared Total mileage operated improved to Go South Coast operation.
These high levels 99.8% in the year, with punctuality businesses are performing well.
Network of performance allowed us to extend above 95% the best levels achieved restructuring, coupled with investment most of the eligible contracts from five in the group.
in new buses and strong marketing, to seven years, many of which entailed has generated strong passenger In Brighton and Hove, we continued additional resources, summing to growth on the Isle of Wight, and in the to deliver improvements in operating a further 16 peak vehicles overall.
Bournemouth, Poole and Southampton profit.
Service levels were enhanced Eastleigh conurbations.
The business Wage ination was partly offset by driven by increased passenger growth, also includes a substantial coaching productivity improvements during the high prole service development and operation, which has benefited from year, with a strong focus on reducing strong operating performance on busy new business such as serving cruise absenteeism.
We invested in a new ships berthed at Southampton.
costs were up 2.6m overall reecting eet of double decker buses for Metro the increasing age prole of the eet.
25 and extended to a 24 hour operation.
Metrobus deregulated operations, This required us to both refurbish based at Crawley, achieved record levels Our Oxford based business, which buses entering a second contract term, of service quality and made a significant includes high frequency coach services and incur maintenance cost for vehicles contribution to overall profitability.
from the city to central London, falling outside of extended warranty Heathrow and Gatwick, enjoyed a good Outlook packages.
Investment in the bus eet year.
Patronage increased following We expect our bus operations to make continued, with 66 new, environmentally a comprehensive network review, further progress in the new year.
Our aim friendly, Euro-4 compliant buses supported by investment in 11 new is to maintain our leading position in the acquired during the year.
Mercedes Citaro buses and 10 new regulated London market, strengthened At Metrobus, with the garage Volvo coaches.
These vehicles are by TfL contract wins of Route 24 and 453 redevelopment programme complete, Euro-5 compliant, reducing emissions from other operators, and the retention the management team focused on ahead of the standard becoming of Routes 36 and 436 with additional improving service quality and operating mandatory in 2009.
The acquisition of Blue Triangle profit.
Performance on TfL contracts Corporate Social Responsibility CSR in East London in June 2007 further improved signicantly and, coupled with category at the 2006 UK Bus Awards.
increases our market position north of the significant additional rail replacement Passenger convenience was enhanced Thames.
We also intend to improve our work, the business delivered better through the introduction of a smart deregulated services, with benets operating profits.
By the end of the year card ticketing system during the year, owing from a cessation of one-off costs Metrobus had also topped TfL quality which has proved very successful to date.
at Go West Midlands and Go North East, league tables.
and further restructuring at Go South We have made progress in our new Coast.
The policy of investing in new, Deregulated bus operations West Midlands operations, although environmentally friendly buses, network Our deregulated bus operations the financial results were poor, in part development and strong marketing enjoyed a good year.
Revenue growth due to start-up and restructuring costs will continue.
totalled 12.0% and passenger journeys continuing to impact during the year.
The business was established through Risks two acquisitions in 2006 and has been Operating profits are highly sensitive The growth in passenger journeys through a significant amount of change.
to the cost of fuel, with a 1 penny increase was due to a significant increase in the The senior management team was in fuel cost per litre adding around number of passengers benefiting from replaced and virtually all aspects of 1m to our costs.
At the end of June free concessionary travel, particularly the business were comprehensively 2007, approximately half of our fuel in our Go North East, Go South Coast overhauled.
A new commercial strategy requirements were hedged for 2007 08. and Brighton & Hove operations.
was put together to refocus the business Other principal risks include an adverse Fare paying passengers increased on a core commercial network, and outcome to 2007 08 concessionary fare in Oxford, Go South Coast and this began to be rolled out towards negotiations, industrial relations, political Brighton & Hove.
The operations, risk arising from legislative change, Our Go North East operations engineering and finance teams were terrorism, competitor behaviour and the performed well during the year, and reorganised and are now close to loss of significant regulated contracts.
we are starting to see the benets of achieving the standard of service quality the significant changes underway in achieved elsewhere within the group.
The new commercial Relationships with local authorities strategy has comprehensively have been transformed.
We remain restructured the local bus network, committed to establishing the group generating operating cost savings, as a high quality bus operator in the by focussing on a core commercial West Midlands, and will look for synergies with our new rail business as the year progresses.
8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 9 2 134 5 6 Safety and environment The safety of passengers, staff and 1 4 the general public is the top priority for The newest additions to the Go North East Metrobus investment continues on the group, closely followed by the eet have been 9 Euro-5 Mercedes-Benz passenger safety initiatives, with 100% of the protection of the natural environment buses, the most environmentally friendly TfL contract eet now tted with CCTV.
Branded as 5 the companys Red Arrows, they were the first CCTV systems enhance security As part of an on-going programme of Euro-5 buses to operate in the region.
and the sense of security on bus and investment in new fuel efficient equipment, train services and within car parks.
On 2 aviance has increased the number of electric our rail operations this is complimented The Oxford Bus Company, believing that vehicles in operation, complementing with the presence of revenue protection public transport should have a minimum a wider monitoring scheme to reduce rail enforcement ofcers.
effect on the environment, has adopted fuel usage.
Euro-5 buses and coaches in the UK at a time We were the first company to introduce 6 when the Euro-4 standard is just beginning Euro-5 standard diesel engines, To improve passenger perception of to be adopted elsewhere.
almost two years before they are a legal safety of services, Southeastern employs requirement.
Now 88% of the bus eet 3 rail enforcement ofcers to patrol trains operates with Euro-2 engines or better Southerns Brighton Lovers Walk train care and stations, particularly at night, talking and research by an independent transport depots recycling team won the Network Rail to passengers and providing a reassuring consultancy TAS highlights Go-Ahead Environment Team Award in June.
as having the most environmentally friendly bus eet in the country.
9 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 10 Operating and financial review continued Rail Operating cost rises were largely electricity and higher labour costs.
confined to labour and electricity.
Labour The lease cost savings arose from the cost increases arose from routine wage delay of modications to rolling stock.
2007 2006 m m negotiations and increased pension No payments were made in the year contributions, with the number of under the revenue sharing arrangement Revenue 1,071.3 744.9 employees remaining relatively constant operated with the DfT.
Operating profit 66.1 42.5 through the year.
The cost of traction Margin 6.2% 5.7% Outlook electricity, excluding the exceptional The passenger market is assumed to Passenger income growth settlement which is described further remain buoyant for the next year.
Southern 14.1% 7.1% below, was around 3.3m above last year.
However, DfT subsidies to the two Southeastern 12.4% n a Engineering costs were slightly below last franchises are scheduled to reduce year.
The depot refurbishment in Volume growth signicantly in the new financial year.
Southern 9.1% 2.8% Southern, completed in 2006, provides This, together with ongoing cost Southeastern 7.0% n a superb facilities to maintain the new train pressure, is expected to offset the benefit eet to a high standard.
Before exceptional items and amortisation from the London Midlands franchise, Southeastern compares the three months to The net subsidy received from the DfT leading to an anticipated reduction in 30 June 2007 against the first three months of declines each year under the terms of the operating profit next year.
ownership to 1 July 2006 franchise and was approximately 5.1m In Southern, we will be implementing The rail division has had an excellent below last year.
The franchise is also the Brighton Main Line Route Utilisation year.
Revenue grew by 326.4m, or subject to a profit sharing regime with the Strategy, which includes the integration 43.8%, to 1,071.3m, and operating DfT.
The strong financial performance this of the Gatwick Express into our profit increased by 23.6m, or 55.5%, year triggered the maximum 80% network from May 2008.
The margin improved by threshold, resulting in an increased preparing to tender for the next franchise 0.5 percentage points to 6.2%.
period, due to start in October 2009.
The net impact of changes to the Southeastern Our Southeastern operations will look franchises held by the group accounted Our Southeastern operations also to progress our improvement plans for approximately 284.0m of the enjoyed improved operating across a wide range of performance and increase in revenue and 13.2m of the performance, with PPM punctuality customer satisfaction areas.
Work is increase in operating profit.
The prior levels at close to 90.0% for the year.
underway to introduce enhanced year includes the last nine months of the Performance regime payments, timetables, including the high speed Thameslink franchise, which nished on primarily from Network Rail, were some services into Kent, in 2009.
The first of 31 March 2006, and the first three months 5.0m above the levels assumed in the the new high speed trains arrived in of the Southeastern rail franchise which franchise plan.
Passenger satisfaction August from Japan.
The current year ratings were 74.0% for the year.
includes bid costs charged to the income In November 2007, our new London We set ourselves an ambitious statement of 3.0m for new franchises, Midland franchise begins operations, programme of change and improvement compared to 1.4m last year.
combining the operations of Silverlink for this franchise, against a government County with the West Midlands regional Southern subsidy which declines to a small services of Central Trains.
Operating performance reached premium over the course of the franchise.
record levels during the year.
The public We are still at a relatively early stage Risks performance measure PPM showed of the franchise, but are pleased with Key risks to the division include the that close to 90.0% of our trains arrived progress.
Our stated aim is to provide potential loss of the Southern franchise in on time during the year.
The performance a growing railway for a growing region.
September 2009, the impact of terrorist regime, including compensation for This programme includes investment incidents, or severe disruption affecting delays caused by Network Rail, delivered in new train timetables to optimise the network.
increased income of 5.8m compared performance and to provide extra Aviation Services to last year.
Elsewhere, the company rating was 81% for the year, up slightly is working hard to improve station 2007 2006 from 80.0% last year.
Ongoing security facilities and to improve the quality m m improvements included additional and cleanliness of the existing train CCTV cameras on trains, and enhanced Revenue 241.6 258.7 eet.
Carriages are being tted with Operating loss profit 3.8 8.6 security at stations.
enhanced security and on board Margin 1.6 % 3.3% passenger information, whilst reliability Passenger income increased by 14.1% improvements are being made to Revenue growth compared to last year.
Most of the mid-life rolling stock.
General handling 1.8 % 2.9 % increase was due to a rise in passenger Cargo 4.6% 10.4% journeys of 9.1% to over 135 million in Passenger journeys reached 147 million Car parking 21.3 % 7.0 % the year, reecting both the strong in the year.
The last three months of this economic conditions and improved year compared to the first three months Volume growth performance.
At such levels, capacity General handling of ownership last year showed an remains a challenge for the industry.
aircraft turnarounds 4.8 % 5.8 % increase in passenger income of 12.4% Cargo tonnes 0.8% 6.8% For our part, we continued to introduce and in passenger journeys of 7.0%.
Price Car parking new carriages into service and optimised increases averaged approximately 6% for transaction volume 23.7 % 3.1 % train formations by use of passenger the same period, based on an RPI 3% loading data information supplied pricing regime.
Before exceptional items and amortisation from equipment on our rolling stock.
Operating costs were below the franchise Ticket price increases averaged 5.0% plan for the year, with a reduction in lease in accordance with the terms of costs offsetting increases in traction the franchise.
10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 21 9 07 11:33 Page 11 12 35 4 6 People Over 25,000 people work for Go-Ahead 1 4 and some of our companies are among the Oxford Bus is an accredited trainer for As part of our London bus operations largest local employers in their region.
Oxfordshire County Council in disability drive to communicate the importance of awareness training.
health and safety to all employees, general With around three quarters of employees and engineering specic guides were in customer facing roles and acting as the 2 produced to highlight safe systems of groups ambassadors to the travelling To build a competent, confident and work and risk control measures.
public, the training and development empowered workforce, Southeastern of our workforce is critical in equipping have started several staff development 5 them with the skills needed in a customer programmes aimed at employees at aviance continues to focus on developing service environment.
all levels in the company, as well as employees through training and in the year working towards achieving Investors the company launched a customer service Training opportunities available in People accreditation.
Encouraging existing include modern apprenticeships, health employees to re-visit their customer service & safety qualications, BETCs in customer 3 training, it also provides an opportunity service, equal opportunities disability Wilts & Dorset place great importance to learn some new skills and techniques.
discrimination training and non work on the training and development of related life skills.
For example the top engineering 6 apprentice is presented with the Warren Meteor holds the Security Industry Luxton Memorial Award for excellent Authoritys ACS Approved Contractor results at both work and college.
Scheme accreditation for its security guarding business.
11 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 12 Operating and financial review continued The aviation division experienced a airport, and the acquisition in February Interest difficult year.
From August 2006, new 2007 of Nikaro, a specialist nationwide The net finance cost for the year security measures introduced in response keyholding and alarm response business.
increased to 8.0m 2006 5.9m, to terrorist threats caused delays and Outlook largely due to the increase in net disruption, and led to unrecoverable cost The aim of this division is to translate its debt during the year.
The average net increases which were most acute at reputation for excellent levels of quality interest rate was 5.9% for the year London Heathrow Airport.
and customer service into restored and the proportion of net debt held Revenue decreased by 17.1m across profitability.
Ground handling should at xed interest rates was 64.7% the division, or 6.6%, to 241.6m, and benefit from the new British Airways 2006 51.0% at the end of the year.
operating profit decreased by 12.4m contracts at Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Pensions to a loss of 3.8m, which includes Glasgow and Manchester airports.
cargo operations have recently won a Pensions have been accounted for in significant new contract at Gatwick with accordance with IAS19, including a General Handling American Airlines and will further expand franchise adjustment to recognise that The general handling operations through the commissioning of a large our obligations under the rail schemes accounted for the majority of the new cargo facility at Heathrow.
Our car are limited to the term of the franchise.
parking operations should benefit from a The net pension cost of the groups Aircraft turnarounds were 4.8% below full year of operating profit contribution dened benefit pension plans for the last year, with the impact of lost contracts from acquisitions.
year was 24.3m 2006 18.2m, at Heathrow and three regional airports Risks consisting of a service cost of 31.9m more than offsetting growth under The division operates in a highly 2006 23.3m less a net nancing existing contracts.
The new British competitive environment.
Key risks benefit of 6.3m 2006 3.6m and Airways contracts started in June 2007 include the loss of significant contracts a franchise adjustment of 1.3m and had minimal impact on the and disruption due to events such as 2006 1.5m.
The rail related charge turnarounds for the year.
increased to 18.8m 2006 10.9m turnaround improved by 3.0%, although due to a full year of Southeastern.
this is heavily inuenced by airport and Additional financial matters The non rail cost reduced to 5.5m contract mix.
Net revenue reduced by 2006 7.3m due to a higher assumed 1.8%, including weather related Operating profit before rate of expected return on assets.
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items EBITDA The net deficit before taxation on the The year also saw a significant rise in non rail dened benefit schemes reduced operating costs.
Labour costs were well in Operating profit before amortisation from 87.5m at the end of last year excess of last year and included and exceptional items was 118.1m to 24.5m, reecting the strong equity additional employees to service a change 2006 97.8m and the depreciation markets at the end of the year.
Of the in aircraft type by two carriers as they charge for the year was 44.6m non-rail scheme assets 67.8% were held responded to competitive pressures.
2006 38.0m, giving an EBITDA in equities at the year end 2006 69.5%.
Security disruption through the year before exceptional items of 162.7m resulted in further cost increases.
The net deficit on the rail schemes was 2.3m 2006 16.3m.
The nature of Cargo operations Exceptional items these schemes means that we only Results for the cargo operations were The exceptional item of 6.9m represents recognise the share of surplus or deficit also challenging.
Revenue growth of the net settlement cost, after profit share, expected to be funded benefited from 4.6% was supported by an increase in incurred in relation to traction electricity over the franchise period, and cargo tonnage of 0.8%.
Good underlying EC4T negotiations for our two rail consequently we have not recognised growth at Heathrow was partly offset by franchises.
This one-off compensation any individual scheme surplus in the the withdrawal of a significant carrier settlement allows the franchises to move financial statements.
onto new supply terms for EC4T with An additional cash contribution of 2.5m As with ground handling, labour Network Rail.
was made to the non rail schemes just operating cost increases were significant There were no other exceptional before the year end in June 2007, with a in response to the new security measures, items in the year 2006 3.2m.
Further further 7.5m paid in early July 2007. leading to an overall reduction in the details of the exceptional items in 2006 operating profit for the year.
Taxation are provided in note 8 to the financial Meteor car parking statements.
The effective tax rate for the year was in It was also a difficult year for our Meteor line with our half year expectations at Goodwill and intangible car parking operations.
The principal asset amortisation reason for the reduced rate compared to The decline in the level of transactions The 8.4m 2006 5.1m charge for the UK tax rate of 30% relates to the and revenue was largely due to changes the year primarily represents the non effective management of asset finance to our contracts with airport operators cash cost of amortising goodwill and arrangements.
The reduction also from a concession basis to a management intangibles, including assets associated includes a one-off decrease of fee structure.
This resulted in less with pension accounting, relating to the approximately 2% for the change in the involvement in the sales process and a rail franchises.
Other items include the deferred tax rate to 28% from 1 April different treatment of income.
Our amortisation of non-rail intangibles and 2008.
Due to the reduction in the pension strategy remains to continue to operate computer software costs.
deficit described above, deferred tax and develop a wide range of airport assets reduced by 22.5m.
related activities, balanced with parking The main reason for the increase against and security business outside the sector.
last year is the impact of a full year of Minority interest This was enhanced in December 2006 ownership of the Southeastern franchise.
The minority interest in the income with the acquisition of PAS Direct, a statement of 12.6m 2006 10.5m provider of valet parking at Gatwick 12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 13 1 2 3 56 4 Investment New buses have entered service to 1 4 both drive patronage growth and to renew This year Oxford Bus introduced the first Metrobus invested in two new Euro-4 the eet, including investment in high wheelchair accessible coaches to Heathrow.
vehicles for the Fastway service, increasing specication Mercedes buses designed The investment of 2.2m in ten Plaxton the service frequency to every eight minutes.
to attract car drivers onto our services.
Panther Volvo buses with its Magic Floor 5 On-going excellent performance within allows the wheelchair user ease of access Work is underway to ensure a successful our regulated London bus business has to the front of the bus.
start of the Southeastern high speed services seen contract renewals and new contract 2 from December 2008.
29 trains, currently wins drive eet investment.
Investment in the London bus eet being built by Hitachi in Japan, will provide Within rail, investment is being made continues, with 59 new vehicles introduced services between St Pancras, Ashford and to improve station facilities and the quality in the last year at a cost of over 8m.
the Kent coast, travelling at up to 140 mph.
of the existing train eet, in addition These vehicles utilise the latest Euro-4 6 to the new high speed trains due to begin engines, to reduce fuel consumption and Plane Handlings cargo business made a operation on the Channel Tunnel Rail minimise exhaust emissions, as well as significant investment in a new cargo facility Link in 2009. being the first vehicles in the group to which opened this year.
The 70,000ft cargo utilise wireless CCTV systems.
shed is used to process Virgin Atlantics 3 import cargo, approximately 90,000 tonnes Balham MP Sadiq Khan endorses annually.
Southerns efforts to improve security at its stations in the London Metro area.
13 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 14 Operating and financial review continued arises from our 65% holding in Net assets totalled 147.6m at the end to have developed policies and methods Govia Limited, which owns 100% of of the year compared to 109.3m at of working: the rail operations, and therefore 30 June 2006.
The increase primarily Safety and security represents 35% of the profit after tax reects the profit attributable to equity Reliability, convenience and punctuality from these operations.
holders of the parent of 58.6m and Accessibility for all actuarial gains of the pension scheme of Affordability Dividends 75.0m, less acquisition of own shares of Local air pollution and congestion The total dividend for the year of 55.6m and dividends paid of 43.6m.
Emissions of greenhouse gases, 70p consists of the interim dividend paid particularly relating to fuel Treasury management policies of 23p and a proposed final dividend and electricity of 47p.
This represents a total increase The groups policies in relation to We measure, manage, innovate and of 25.0%, resulting in a dividend cover funding and risk management are set out report against these issues.
Corporate based on adjusted eps of two times in note 27 to the financial statements.
responsibility is integrated into our wider in line with our stated objective.
We will business and financial planning process look to continue our policy of progressive Principal group risk factors and our businesses are expected to set dividend growth whilst maintaining Our business, financial condition and improvement targets for social and dividend cover of approximately two results of operations will be inuenced environmental performance as part of the times earnings through the cycle.
by a range of factors, many of which business planning process.
The executive Cash ow are beyond our control.
In addition to board also continues to review a common specic risks noted in the divisional set of key business performance indicators Cash generated from operations before reviews above, these risks include, but at each company board meeting that taxation was 191.2m, an increase of are not limited to: political and regulatory include responsibility measures.
This change: reduction in public funding, increase consists of additional operating Within this group framework, in line including an adverse outcome to profit before depreciation, amortisation with our devolved structure, each of concessionary bus fare negotiations: and net cash from a reduction in working our operating companies sets its own disruption or incidents, including those capital of 41.5m.
The majority of this corporate responsibility objectives and due to accidents or terrorism: adverse reduction related to the reversal of targets.
For a third year, each of our changes in the economy and levels temporary funding requirements last operating companies has also published of employment: competitor behaviour: year for the new rail franchise and timing a local report based on their performance loss of significant contracts or franchises: of payments to the DfT.
These increase in costs, including labour, operating company responsibility Net cash ow used in investing activities pensions and fuel: financial risks reports are a companion to the executive was 71.9m, similar to last year at as outlined in note 27 to the financial summary group report.
Capital expenditure, net of sale statements and adverse changes in first group in the public transport sector proceeds, totalled 53.7m compared to tax legislation.
to report directly to local stakeholders 67.9m last year, including new bus and continue to be committed to innovate expenditure of 28.8m 2006 50.2m.
Corporate responsibility and lead our sector across all aspects The cash used to purchase businesses Integrating the principles of sustainable of the responsibility agenda.
development into how we operate has We benchmark our performance in Dividends paid to parent company been a feature of our group culture since a number of different ways.
We shareholders totalled 28.9m 2006 the earliest days of our formation.
commissioned, for a second year, an 25.3m, and to minority interests We recognised that adopting a independent study from the TAS totalled 14.7m 2006 15.1m.
responsible approach to business directly Partnership which confirmed that We continued with our share buy back contributes to achieving our business Go-Ahead continues to lead in having programme, investing 55.6m 2006 objectives.
Our performance on issues the most environmentally friendly bus 52.6m to buy back 2.4 million 2006 such as service punctuality, safety and eets in Britain.
We also enjoyed external 3.2 million of our own shares at an ease of access both demonstrate a recognition by being ranked as a average price of 22.69 2006 16.30 commitment to responsibility and are Gold Company in the Business in the per share.
At 30 June 2007, we held key factors which help us grow patronage Community Corporate Responsibility a total of 5.0 million shares in treasury, on our buses and trains.
At the same Index, a voluntary initiative rating representing 9.8% of the issued time, concerns over air quality and company effectiveness at measuring, share capital.
congestion have long been issues of managing and reporting on responsible Balance sheet local concern.
For the third year, we issues and changes to the global climate were the highest ranked public transport Net debt increased by 5.7m, from are shaping the transport policy company among those that participated.
Bank loans and environment in which we operate.
The group also retained its position loan notes were 223.0m and hire in the FTSE4 Good UK Index, which purchase and finance leases totalled In a devolved group, we have ensured comprises companies that meet minimum 50.1m.
This was partly offset by cash that our commitment to responsibility is corporate responsibility standards.
and short term deposits of 128.6m, incorporated in our group values and in which included restricted rail cash the way we manage the operating An executive summary environmental and deposits of 92.7m.
Excluding the companies within the group.
Underlying social report is available from the group restricted cash, adjusted net debt was our common set of corporate values is a or can be downloaded from our website.
237.2m, equivalent to 1.46 times responsibility grid developed following a A detailed web-based companion report EBITDA before exceptional items structured programme of consultation containing full details of the environmental dened above.
Our aim is to move with passengers, employees and other and social responsibility performance to an adjusted net debt to EBITDA stakeholders.
The grid identies the key of the group will be available later in the ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x through the cycle.
responsibility factors that inuence the year on the groups website at: www.
gouse of bus and train services and those ahead.
issues where stakeholders expect us 14 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:30 Page 15 2 3 5 1 4 Innovation The group is leading the introduction 1 4 of innovative solutions to improve The Borough of Poole is launching a Brighton & Hove continued its high performance and service levels in the service that will enable bus passengers to prole campaign to encourage bus use in transport sector.
From expanding real access bus times on their mobile phones the city which features passengers on the time information onto the web and via anytime, anywhere.
side of each bus as well as staff who work mobile phones, to route branding services for the company.
2 to target local niche markets, our bus Southerns award winning train automatic 5 companies are at the forefront of new performance analysis system TAPAS has Go North East is continuing to theme its developments.
transformed traditional train maintenance by eet to make them easily identiable on any Within rail, Southerns train automatic introducing a remote condition based system part of their route and to engender local performance analysis system is breaking which identies potential failures on board pride.
Around half of the company buses new ground in train maintenance, while trains before they happen.
Meteor has introduced innovative 3 feedback pods to the car-parking sector, Euro-5 compliant buses have recently providing an easy non intrusive way come to the Isle of Wight.
The seven new for customers to register comments.
buses represent an investment of over 1m Looking to our ground handling sector, and now run on the 10 minute service aviance UK is learning from passenger between Newport and Ryde.
The exhortation check-in psychology to optimise the to Go to work in a Merc for the cost of a deployment of resources to minimise bus fare has be taken up by many islanders.
15 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007
