18 19 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 FINANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Nick Wharton FINANCIAL RESULTS TAXATION Group sales for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2007 were The taxation charge on profit for the financial year was 23.5m 744.0m 2006: 681.7m, an increase of 9.1% on the comparable 2006: 23.4m resulting in a full year effective tax rate of 29.0% period last year and representing a like-for-like sales increase of 2006: 30.4%.
This tax rate has been driven by the treatment of 6.0%.
The absence of an Easter in the 52 weeks ended 31 March intercompany Loan Notes raised at the time of the Groups 2006 has meant that the underlying like-for-like sales performance refinancing.
It should be noted that although there is expected to was 5.3%.
be a similar effective tax rate in 2007 08, the underlying tax rate is 31.6%, which reflects the non-deductibility of depreciation Gross profit at 376.1m 2006: 346.7m is 50.6% as a charged on capital expenditure in respect of mezzanine floors and percentage of net sales and compares to last years figure of other store infrastructure.
The 30 basis points bps dilution in gross profit per cent represents a significant improvement on the 260 bps dilution EARNINGS PER SHARE reported at the preliminary results last year.
With reported margin Basic earnings per share EPS were 25.8 pence 2006: 23.6 dilution in the first half of the year at 40 bps there was a second pence.
An alternative EPS measure, excluding exceptional items, half improvement, which saw year-on-year dilution of 20 bps.
This reflects the Groups underlying performance.
Consequently, basic improvement reflects active margin management: the flow-through EPS, excluding exceptional finance costs, were 26.6 pence 2006: of Far East sourcing benefits and continued sales growth in higher 23.6 pence, a year-on-year increase of 12.7%.
This level of EPS margin categories.
growth reflects the increase in earnings driven by a strong trading performance, a lower tax rate and the share buy-back programme.
Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue are 20 bps higher than last year at 38.0% 2006: 37.8%.
Continued improvements CAPITAL EXPENDITURE in store labour productivity and a slowdown in rental inflation has Capital investment in the period totalled 23.9m 2006: 27.5m, been offset by the increase in administrative expenses driven by with a major focus on adding new selling space though expanding the costs associated with the three store Czech Republic pilot, the store portfolio.
The Group opened 25 new stores, of which increased costs of long and short-term incentives and legal costs seven were relocations, growing the portfolio from 408 to 426 associated with the Groups capital restructure.
This financial commitment underpins our strategy of expanding the Superstore portfolio and rolling out new formats, Net finance costs for the year excluding exceptional interest were including the introduction of two stand-alone Bikehut stores in 10.0m 2006: 12.1m.
Exceptional finance costs totalling 2.6m Brighton and Putney.
As noted in last years report the Group were incurred as part of the debt re-financing exercise.
The writecontinues to invest in the development of its infrastructure and off of previously capitalised loan fees arising from the repayment particularly new store systems.
After a trial period these systems of the Groups term debt totalled 1.5m and the cost of closing are being rolled out nationally, successfully concluding the out of an interest rate swap was 1.1m.
Groups five year programme to replace all of the core retail, operational and financial systems.
Profit before tax was 80.9m compared with 77.0m in the prior year, an increase of 5.1%, which rises to a year-on-year increase CASH FLOW, NET DEBT, AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE of 8.4% when excluding the exceptional finance costs noted Having undertaken a comprehensive review of the Groups capital above.
structure, the Board took the decision to undertake a debt refinancing exercise, which was completed on 14 July 2006.
The LANDLORD CONTRIBUTIONS debt facility now comprises a 180m five-year term nonHalfords actively manages its store portfolio to maximise value amortising loan, with a 120m revolving credit facility.
creation through generating cash, making profits and increasing the ongoing contribution from each store.
Halfords high quality Total net debt at 30 March 2007 was 180.0m 2006: 173.7m portfolio, with 60% of its superstores on retail parks with A1 and includes 12.4m 2006: 12.5m in respect of the head office planning consents, together with its destination status provides finance lease.
further potential from these activities and the Group anticipates a similar level of contributions in the current financial year.
Landlord The Group continues to generate strong net cash flows from contributions during the year totalled 4.5m, compared to 6.9m operations, which were 112.6m to 30 March 2007 2006: last year.
100.9m and included a working capital outflow of 4.5m 2006: 11.5m.
Stock levels remain well managed at 141.6m 2006: OPERATING LEASES 127.2m, an increase of 11.3%.
This increase reflects stock All of the Groups stores are occupied under operating leases, the investment in new stores, together with the seasonal stock build majority of which are on standard lease terms, typically with a 15- ahead of Easter, which fell in the second week of the new year term at inception.
The Group has a total commitment under financial year.
DIVIDEND AND SHARE BUY-BACK We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format in a The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.50 pence per way that allows us to compete in different markets and to use service share 2006: 8.75 pence per share, which, in addition to the as a point of differentiation in each market segment.
We have an interim dividend of 4.35 pence per share, generates a total established training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues dividend of 13.85 pence 2006: 12.75 pence.
receive ongoing product and service training.
We track performance against a broad range of measures that customers tell us are critical Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, to their shopping experience and monitor customer perceptions of the final dividend will be paid on 1 August 2007 to shareholders ourselves to ensure we can respond quickly if required.
on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2007.
DEPENDENCE ON KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL At the preliminary results presentation on 8 June 2006, Halfords The success of Halfords business depends upon its senior announced a share buy-back programme to purchase, for management closely supervising all aspects of its business, in cancellation, up to 50m of share capital over a two year period.
particular the operation of its stores and the design, procurement The strongly cash generative nature of the business allows the and allocation of its merchandise.
Retention of senior Group to maintain its investment in new stores and other strategic management is especially important in Halfords business due to opportunities, while improving capital efficiency and total the limited availability of experienced and talented retail shareholder returns via this share buy-back.
In the period from executives.
8 June 2006 to 30 March 2007, Halfords purchased 9.0m of its own shares for an aggregate consideration of 30.0m, at an If Halfords were to lose the services of members of its senior average of 333.2 pence per share.
management such as Ian McLeod, its Chief Executive Officer, Nick Wharton, its Finance Director, or Paul McClenaghan, its PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Trading Director, and were unable to employ a suitable The Board considers risk assessment, identification of mitigating replacement in a timely manner, its business could be actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving adversely affected.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 26 to 29 describes the systems and Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page 30 details the processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
strategies in place to ensure that high calibre executives are The Board considers that the principal commercial and financial attracted and retained.
The Group also operates a Talent risks to achieving its objects are those identified below.
The Board Management process to help individuals achieve their full recognises that the nature and scope of risks can change and so potential within Halfords and to ensure that appropriate regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well as the succession plans are in place to meet the future needs of the systems and processes to mitigate them.
A COMMERCIAL REPUTATIONAL RISK ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
Trends The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and as the in employment, inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels and largest retailer in its markets, expectations of the Group are high.
interest rates impact consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Failure to protect the Groups reputation and brand could lead to a Whilst many of the products that Halfords sell are nonloss of trust and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the discretionary in their nature and predicting future trends is difficult, customer base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good Halfords reflects the latest independently sourced estimates in its people.
The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal and regulatory Furthermore, international expansion not only provides control processes both in-house and externally to advise and take opportunities for sustainable growth and returns but also action on existing and emerging risk management issues.
continually monitor loyalty to the Halfords brand through independent surveys and seek through activities such as Charity COMPETITION of the Year, to contribute to society more widely.
Our various The retail industry is highly competitive.
The Group competes with Codes of Practice regulate our behaviour in our dealings with all a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and faces competition stakeholders including customers, suppliers and colleagues.
from UK retailers, as well as international operators.
Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, product range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
20 21 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 FINANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued RESPONSIVENESS TO CHANGING CONSUMER The main elements of Treasury activity and associated risk are PREFERENCES outlined below: Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly in the car enhancement category, are subject to rapidly changing consumer FUNDING preferences.
Halfords has recruited experienced, knowledgeable The Treasury function arranges sufficient secure financial colleagues who can identify and interpret trends and resources to enable the Group to meet its medium-term business consequently respond in a timely manner to changes in consumer objectives, whilst arranging facility maturities appropriate to its preferences.
Some of the products Halfords sells, such as projected needs.
childrens cycles, face competition from alternative products such as games consoles and our colleagues monitor developments in The Group successfully renegotiated a syndicated five-year term these areas.
facility during the financial year and has committed bank facilities comprising a non-amortising five-year term loan of 180m and a INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IT SYSTEMS AND revolving credit facility of 120m, which, together with cash INFRASTRUCTURE surpluses, provide adequate funding for the Groups operations.
Halfords is reliant on efficient IT systems throughout its business operations.
Recognising the key role that IT plays in improving CURRENCY operating effectiveness and improving the customer experience The Groups main currency translation exposure is limited to in our stores, we continue to invest in upgrading our IT movements in exchange rates to the extent that they affect infrastructure.
Any significant failure within our network during balances held on its currency bank accounts.
Foreign currency any systems change would potentially compromise our bank balances are controlled by the Treasury function and are operational capability for a period of time.
actively managed to a level that minimises currency translation exposures.
The Groups main currency exposure is its transaction Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our exposure through movements in exchange rates on its purchases systems infrastructure and to ensure that any systems changes overseas that are not denominated in sterling.
These are mainly are implemented in a managed and controlled manner.
Halfords imports from Asia denominated in US dollars and imports from core commercial and retail systems are sourced from leading Europe denominated in euros.
global providers and continuity plans are in place for all core systems.
The Treasury Policy sets out a framework through which the majority of the Groups forecast foreign currency transactions RELIANCE ON FOREIGN MANUFACTURERS are hedged.
Halfords sources a significant proportion of the merchandise it sells in its stores from outside of the UK.
Consequently, the Group INTEREST is subject to the risks associated with international trade The Groups bank term debt carries a variable rate of interest particularly those which are common in the import of goods from linked to prevailing LIBOR rates.
In conjunction with the new developing countries, including, but not limited to the imposition syndicated loan facility and, in order to mitigate the risk of a rise in of taxes or other charges on imports and exposure to different UK interest rates, the Group has entered into a single rate swap legal standards and the burden of complying with a variety of until 13 July 2011.
As at 30 March 2007, 45% 2006: 83% of net foreign laws and changing foreign government policies.
bank debt position carried a fixed rate of interest and the weighted average pre-tax cost of debt was 5.6% 2006: 6.2%.
Extensive research is conducted before the Group procures product from any new country or supplier.
The Groups strong The position is regularly reviewed and the Groups policy of management team in the Far East has been recruited from local hedging at least 40% of the following years forecast interest rate nationals who understand the local culture, market regulations exposure is satisfied for the period ending 30 March 2008.
30 March 2007, 86.0m 2006: 114.9m of net bank debt was at a floating rate.
B FINANCIAL TREASURY POLICY COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK The Groups Treasury Policy is structured to ensure that adequate The Group actively manages its relationships with a panel of high financial resources are available for the development of its quality financial institutions.
Credit risk is controlled by the business whilst managing its currency, interest rate and Treasury function setting counterparty credit limits by reference to counterparty credit risks.
The Groups Treasury strategy, policy published rating agency credit ratings, ensuring that such and controls are approved by the Board.
counterparties hold at least an A credit rating.
The Treasury Policy recognises that an exposure to a counterparty arises in relation to investments, derivatives and financial instruments.
Nick Wharton, Finance Director 6 June 2007
