HOW the year went Review of operations and finance Group results Results arising from a decision to conclude the Revenue rose by 243.5m to bedroom test and the discontinuation 2007 2006 m m 976.5m, reflecting the increased of certain slow-selling kitchen ranges sales of Howden Joinery 92.1m and Revenue 768.4 676.3 and joinery doors.
The net result was third party sales of Supply 149.3m.
that operating profit before exceptional Operating The growth of third party sales by profit before items rose by 12.5m to 145.1m.
Supply reflected MFI being an external exceptional items 145.1 132.6 customer in 2007, having been part of The main elements of the increase the Group until October 2006.
Howden Joinery traded well in non-depot costs related to throughout the year, the higher rate increased expenditure on promotional Excluding exceptional items, gross of sales growth seen in the summer material and expenditure incurred profit increased by 93.7m to 456.2m.
being sustained to the end of the in relation to a major new product With selling and distribution costs and year.
Revenue increased by 13.6% design initiative to help us meet administrative expenses increasing to 768.4m, up 8.9% on a same depot market requirements beyond the by 71.2m, operating profit before basis.
In addition, costs were exceptional items was 88.1m 2006: increase in the turnover of mature incurred in relation to the Trade Expo 65.7m.
The net interest charge fell depots, which have typically been Centre, which opened in May, and 0.2m to 8.3m.
The net result was operating for six years or more, the two mobile display vehicles which profit before tax and exceptional items benefit of the maturing profile of were commissioned in the autumn.
sales from newer depots and new depot openings.
Of particular note Business developments Exceptional charges before tax were the sales of doors and joinery In 2007, 54 new depots were opened, totalled 35.4m, giving profit products, which benefited from the bringing the total number to 436.
introduction of a more extensive range addition, two existing depots were These mainly comprised 36.5m of doors and a new joinery catalogue relocated and five were extended.
relating to the restructuring of Supply in the autumn of 2006.
The increase and IT announced in June 2007.
In in sales also reflected the benefit of A review of the opportunities for addition provision for future business improvements to the kitchen product additional depots, taking account rates on vacant retail properties and range sold, both in terms of the of demographic information and the professional fees associated with scope of the kitchens offered, and locations of our existing network, has the disposal of retail have been new products introduced to meet the concluded that the number of depots shown as discontinued operations.
ever-higher aspirations of all endcould increase to more than 600 in the consumers, such as range cookers.
Some of these will be Basic earnings per share from This led to both increased volume and in places where we have no presence.
continuing operations excluding additional add-on sales, increasing the Others will be in conurbations that exceptional items were 9.1p average value of kitchen sales.
warrant more than one depot.
Earnings per share year, we are planning to open including exceptional items were The rise in sales through existing and around 50 depots.
new depots, after allowing for salesrelated cost increases, contributed In May, Howden Joinery opened Howden Joinery 23.3m to the growth in operating its Trade Expo Centre the Centre, Howden Joinery sells kitchen and profit.
This was partly offset by an the primary purpose of this new facility joinery products to the building trade, increase in non-depot costs of 4.9m being to provide a showcase for the predominantly small local builders, and an increase of 5.9m in the business.
The Centre has an extensive via a nationwide network of depots.
provision for obsolete stock, primarily range of existing products on display, GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 12 26 3 08 10:39:41 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 in inspirational and innovative settings as third parties, the former having been of Howden Joinery.
Internally, flat designed to inspire the visitor, which part of the Group for most of 2006. pack box manufacturing capacity is not possible within the confines at the Howden factory has been of the limited show area of a depot.
The net cost of Supply before converted to rigid box capacity.
exceptional items decreased Externally, the supply base has been By the end of the year, nearly to 26.6m 2006: 39.6m.
This strengthened to enable better product 6,000 people had visited the Centre.
reflected the move from manufacturing design, new product opportunities These included professionals from to buying-in fascias and own-brand and improved supply availability.
larger organisations that purchase appliances that was instigated in the kitchens and who may not have used first half of 2006 as part of the drive These changes will provide Howden Joinery in the past, builders to bring a new commercial focus to the flexibility to better manage who already use Howdens and their Supply.
The benefits of this change the requirements of the Howden customers, and Howdens depot were indicated when it was announced Joinerys key October trading period, staff.
This initiative gives us a focal in February 2006.
In addition, there when demand can be more than twice point to engage with customers on was an increased currency gain arising that seen in other periods, and the their perception of Howden Joinery from the strengthening of the pound capacity to handle the expected growth and their product requirements: and against the euro and the US dollar.
of demand in coming years.
has enabled us to raise our profile as a supplier of kitchen and joinery Business developments Taxation products to the trade.
The product supply and logistics The tax charge on profit before services arrangements with MFI tax from continuing operations, Since the autumn, the work of were successfully concluded on excluding exceptional items, the Centre has been augmented 21 December 2007.
Galiform was 25.5m, a tax rate of 32%.
by two mobile display vehicles, continues to provide certain IT In the 2007 Budget, the Chancellor one of which focusses on products and financial services to MFI until announced his intention to reduce aimed at the local authority housing October 2008.
In response to the the rate of Corporation tax from 30% association sector of the market, ending of these arrangements to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. the other showcasing new products.
with MFI, the restructuring of the The change in rate has been reflected manufacturing and logistics in our deferred tax balances in these Supply operations has proceeded to plan.
accounts and will be reflected in our Supply primarily sources products current tax balances after 1 April 2008. for Howden Joinery.
The products By the year end, manufacturing The effective rate of tax would have are either manufactured, in the case facilities at Hull had been closed been 34.2% without this adjustment.
of kitchen cabinets and worktops, with activities transferred to Howden: or sourced from third parties by and 340 employees had left the In addition, the Group has Supply.
As part of the transitional operations.
Further rationalisation recognised deferred tax assets arrangements following the disposal has taken place since and, with the in certain of its subsidiaries 23.9m of Hygena Cuisines and MFI in 2006, restructuring of logistics operations that were previously unrecognised.
Supply has also sourced products in Northampton due for completion This has been treated as an for these businesses in 2007. by the end of March 2008, a further exceptional tax credit see note 6.
Results The Group seeks to minimise External turnover of Supply was A key aspect of the restructuring its tax burden in a manner which 200.1m 2006: 50.8m, reflecting has been the realignment of these is consistent with its commercial 13 sales to MFI and Hygena Cuisines operations with the requirements objectives and meets its legal GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 13 26 3 08 10:39:41 THe business revieW HOW the year went HOW the year went Review of operations and finance continued obligations and ethical standards.
Sales growth and determination of discount rates While every effort is made to maximise Growth in sales is obviously key to for measuring plan obligations.
The the tax efficiency of its business enhancing shareholder value in any assumptions used from year to year transactions, the Group does not look to company.
This measure, along with may vary, which will affect future results use artificial structures in its tax planning.
monitoring our programme of depot of operations.
Any difference between The Group is committed to building openings, tracks the ability of the these assumptions and the actual open relationships with tax authorities Group to grow the business.
outcome also affect future results and to follow a policy of full disclosure of operations.
Pension assumptions in order to effect the timely settlement of Operating profit are discussed and agreed with the its tax affairs and to remove uncertainty This is a key measure of the Groups independent actuaries in December in its business transactions.
These assumptions are targets steady growth in operating used to determine the projected Dividend and dividend policy profit before exceptional items over benefit obligation at the year end and The Board is recommending the medium-term.
hence the liability or asset recorded a final dividend of 0.5p per share on the Groups balance sheet.
2006: nil to be paid on 13 June 2008 Earnings per share EPS to shareholders registered at close We believe that EPS, while not perfect, Details of the pensions charge of business on 30 May 2008. is an accessible measure of the returns and the defined benefit schemes we are generating as a Group for our assets and liabilities are shown in The Board is assessing an appropriate shareholders, and also has the merit note 23 to the financial statements.
ongoing dividend policy and will of being auditable and well understood.
This shows a net deficit, after taking provide details at a later date.
The key measure of short-term financial into account deferred taxation, of performance is basic earnings per 60.1m 2006: 132.4m.
Changes Cash share before exceptional items.
in this deficit are affected by the Good management of costs assumptions made in valuing the resulted in the Group generating Depot openings liabilities and the market performance a positive cash flow from operating The business model is based on of the assets.
The net borrowing at the end individual depots providing kitchens discount rate used for measuring the of the year was 3.3m 2006: 4.1m, to small builders within a local defined benefit liabilities has increased including monies held on escrow for community.
As such, the continuing from 5.1% in 2006 to 5.9% in 2007. future insurance claims of 2.4m 2006: drive to open new depots in new Together with the better than expected 3.1m.
This has been struck after localities is key to the Groups growth returns on the scheme assets during taking into account the 53.1m dowry prospects.
We currently believe the the year, these factors have resulted payment to MEP in September 2007 maximum number of good quality in a reduction of the net deficit.
as part of the terms of disposal of the depots which can be opened in any Retail business back in 2006.
Positive year is between 50 and 60.
As part of the secured lending facilities cash flow is expected again in 2008. announced on 17 February 2006, the Managing our commercial risks Company and the Trustees together Key financial performance indicators Defined benefit pension scheme with The Pensions Regulator reached The Group uses a number of financial Accounting for pensions and other agreement with regard to the funding performance indicators to measure post-retirement benefits involves of the remaining deficit.
The Trustees operational and financial activity in judgement about uncertain events, have been granted security over the the business.
These are shown on including estimated retirement Groups shares in Howden Joinery the front cover and first page of this dates, salary levels, mortality rates, Limited.
An amount of 30.5m per Annual Report.
rates of return on scheme assets year has been included within the GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 14 26 3 08 10:39:41 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 budgeted 2008 cash flows for ongoing sales value, at a single manufacturing Information systems pension costs and clearance of the facility.
If manufacturing at this facility The Group is undertaking multiple deficit over the next few years.
is interrupted or terminated, the Group business change initiatives to support might not be able to locate alternative and enable future growth.
In particular Disposal of MFI Retail MFI manufacturing sources on a timely our legacy system infrastructure The Board has reviewed the risks basis or on satisfactory terms.
The is being migrated from Colindale, relating to the disposal of MFI described Group currently has insurance cover which was sold as part of the MFI in the circular sent to shareholders at levels which the Group believes Retail disposal, to alternative locations prior to completion of the transaction are appropriate to mitigate this risk.
A and a new front-end system is being in 2006, and has agreed that these second rigid assembly line at Howden installed.
These initiatives are actively remain appropriate.
These risks include: has helped mitigate this risk.
and carefully planned with defined governance procedures in place.
exposure to potential claims Product design leadership An important component of this under the warranties If there was a misalignment planning process is to ensure that between the products we offer the risks of disruption to the business contingent liabilities in relation and the requirements of our customers are monitored and controlled.
to retail leases guaranteed by and the current trends in the market, the Group there may be an adverse change Market conditions on the Groups future financial The Groups products are distributed terms of transitional services condition and results of operations.
to professional fitters in connection provided pursuant to the Active engagement with suppliers, with residential housing projects.
The ancillary agreements independent research and, critically, results are consequently dependent depot managers and their designers on levels of activity in this market which Further detail on warranty claims encourages and enables product in turn is impacted by many factors and contingent liabilities are shown development activity.
During the year including general economic conditions, in note 28 to the consolidated the Trade Expo Centre has opened mortgage and other interest rates, financial statements.
near Orpington and this has further inflation, unemployment, demographic enhanced our capability of consistently trends, weather, the price of fuel and Failure to implement the providing inspirational new product consumer confidence.
The Group Howdens strategy and designs.
understands lead and lag indicators The future success of the Howdens in order to take timely actions to business depends on the successful Loss of key personnel address issues affecting trading.
implementation of the Companys The Groups success depends strategy and culture for that business.
largely on the skills, experience and Managing our financial risks In particular, if the Group fails to performance of some key members The Group holds financial instruments expand the Howdens business in the of its management.
The loss of for two principal purposes: to finance locally enabled decentralised manner any key members of the Groups its operations and to manage the contemplated, there may be an adverse management may adversely affect the interest rate and currency risks arising affect on the Groups future financial Groups financial condition and result from its operations and its sources condition and results of operations.
The Group utilises the of finance.
The Group finances its Remuneration Committee to ensure operations by a mixture of cash flows Single manufacturing facility that team members are appropriately from operations and longer-term The Group manufactures rigid cabinets compensated for their roles.
Treasury operations and other products, comprising a are managed within policies and 15 significant proportion of its annual procedures approved by the Board.
indd 15 26 3 08 10:39:42 THe business revieW HOW the year went HOW the year went Review of operations and finance continued The main risks arising from the bank deposits and certificates Groups financial instruments are of deposit.
The Group continuously funding and liquidity risk, interest rate reviews the credit quality of risk, counterparty risk and foreign counterparties, the limits placed currency risk.
Where appropriate, the on individual credit exposures and Group uses financial instruments to categories of investments.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other Foreign currency risk instruments is permitted.
The Treasury The most significant currencies function does not operate as a profit for the Group are the US dollar centre and transacts only in relation to and the Euro.
It has become very the underlying business requirements.
difficult to pass the prescribed tests under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Funding and liquidity Recognition and Measurement to The Groups objective is to procure ensure the ability to hedge account continuity of funding at a reasonable for derivative currency transactions cost.
To do this it seeks to arrange through the profit and loss account.
The Group has As the resultant volatility cannot be a 175m secured facility.
Since the avoided in the profit and loss account, year-end, the maturity of this facility it is the view of the Board that routine has been extended from May 2009 transactional conversions between to May 2011. currencies are completed at the relevant spot exchange rate.
This Interest rate risk policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings Mark Robson is managed when necessary by Chief Financial Officer borrowings on a fixed rate basis by entering into rate swaps, rate 5 March 2008 caps and forward rate agreements.
The Groups policy objective has been to only undertake transactions of this nature when net debt exceeds 150m.
Net debt has not exceeded 150m during the year.
Counterparty risk Group Treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to those with a minimum Standard and Poors Moodys long-term credit rating of AA and a short-term credit rating of A1 P1.
Investments mainly consist of GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
