Financial review Selected Operational and Financial Data Units 2007 2006 - % Production 833,799 127,000 557% Total barrels Oil sales 19.9 3.1 542% US$ million Operating loss 39.0 15.2 156 % US$ million Net cash inflow outflow from operations 1.1 30.5 n a US$ million Year end cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits 131.7 95.3 38% US$ million 1 Average realised price bbl 33.35 24.41 37% US$ 2 Cash operating costs per boe 29.84 44.91 n a US$ 3 2007 production target achieved bopd 10,000 n a n a Key performance indicators 1 Average realised oil price per barrel is the average proceeds received for each barrel of oil sold in the period.
2 Cash operating costs are cost of sales excluding depletion and amortisation.
3 Total barrels of oil produced per day by the year end.
Key financial highlights Commercial oil production from two oil fields in Tomsk commenced in November 2007.
Year end cash and cash equivalents of US$131.7 million from US$95.3 million at 31 December 2006, primarily due to US$200 million loan facility and issue of US$191 million 7 year convertible bonds.
Funding for major infrastructure and development of Group including two major oil pipelines linking directly to the Transneft system, transfer stations at Luginetskoye and Zavyalovo and the purchase of 3 drilling rigs.
Gross loss Until the end of October 2007, the Group treated all of its production as representing test production as part of an evaluation programme and the Groups accounting policy for such production is to charge an amount from evaluation costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero gross profit on such sales.
For the last two months of 2007, the production from Maiskoye and Snezhnoye was no longer considered to be test production.
Due to the high level of fixed costs within cost of sales in the initial stage of production there was a gross loss for 2007.
General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased to US$37.9 million 2006: US$19.4 million.
Professional and corporate fees increased by US$8 million primarily as a result of the work related to the move from AIM to the main market, additional legal and public relations costs arising from the Groups higher profile in Russia.
The stand alone RIG business incurred set up costs of US$3.7 million.
Charges related to employee incentive schemes were US$2.1 million 2006: US$0.9 million.
Furthermore the appreciation of the Rouble against the US Dollar contributed to the overall cost base during the year.
Excluding these items the increase in G&A costs reflects the continued growth and development of the business.
Russian Value Added Tax VAT Although VAT in Russia is legally recoverable, for companies in the exploration stage the timing and ability to recover VAT is uncertain.
As a result, whilst the Company was in the exploration phase, the Directors felt it was prudent to reflect this uncertainty and provided against the net VAT recoverable in 2004 and 2005.
In 2006, the Group began to produce oil, which improved its ability to recover VAT.
During 2007, US$1.2 million 2006: US$4.3 million of VAT was recovered in cash and credited back to the income statement.
Investment revenue Investment revenue of US$1.2 million 2006: US$4.4 million arises from bank interest received on cash balances and bank deposits.
In 2006, the Group raised US$199.1 million, net of expenses, to finance its exploration and development activities.
This money was held on deposit earning interest until required for investment into the Groups operations.
Taxation Due to the absence of taxable income, no UK corporation tax or Russian profits tax has been payable in the years to date.
Tax of US$0.5 million 2006: US$0.3 million has been accrued in Cyprus arising from the margin charged on intra-group lending via the Groups Cypriot financing company.
Capital investment Capital investment in the year on exploration and evaluation was US$214.7 million 2006: US$119.6 million, related to Imperials 2007 programme and preparations in the year for the commencement of its 2008 programme.
Additions in the year of property, plant and equipment amounted to US$220.7 million 2006: US$10.7 million.
Whereby investment on development and production assets mainly related to the acquisition of drilling rigs of US$51 million, completion of field facilities of US$52 million and the pipeline construction of US$39 million and includes a provision for decommissioning of US$59.5 million.
Cash flow and liquidity The Groups liquidity requirements arise principally from its working capital requirements and capital expenditure investments.
There was a net cash inflow from operations of US$1.1 million 2006: US$ outflow 30.5 million.
This is principally due to the increased trade payables which is a result of the increased activity of the Group and its ability to get improved credit terms.
Imperial held total cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits of US$131.7 million as of 31 December 2007, as compared to US$95.3 million as of 31 December 2006. Financing In 2007, the Group met its liquidity requirements from the proceeds of equity financings: however, the Group put in place a US$200 million debt finance facility temporarily increased to US$235 million in November of which US$35 million was repaid in December and issued a US$191.3 million 7 year convertible bond during the year.
As a result, as at 31 December 2007 net debt was US$237 million 2006: nil.
The Group announced an approximately US$600 million rights issue and the Board expect to imminently sign the equity bridge to ensure that it is financed through to early 2010, at which point, based on its current work programme, positive cash flow generation should sustain the capex required to meet the Groups production targets.
The Group believes that following admission of these new shares, it will have a robust and sustainable capital structure.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash and liquid resources such as debt, convertible bonds and various items such as trade creditors that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations.
It is the Groups policy that no speculative transactions are undertaken: any transaction involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the Group.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing financial risks that may affect the Group.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed below.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
The Groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the Corporate Governance Statement.
The following is a list of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by Imperial.
This is not a comprehensive list of all significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
Furthermore, by their very nature, the key risks associated with our strategic objectives can change over time.
Political risk Political risk can include nationalisation, tax changes, alteration to the terms of licenses or internal civil unrest.
Political risk is inherent in the oil industry as governments look to maximise their share of hydrocarbon resources.
The Groups view is that our shareholders understand the political risk is balanced in each case by the rewards available from investment, and as such accept this risk reward profile.
Geological risk Exploration activities are capital intensive and their successful outcome cannot be assured.
The Group undertakes exploration activities and incurs significant costs with no guarantee that such expenditure will result in the discovery and producing of commercially deliverable oil.
Imperial Energy is exploring in geographic areas, where environmental conditions are challenging and costs can be high.
The Group feels that such risks are mitigated with prospects in well established oil producing areas coupled with the extensive expertise and experience of core Management.
Liquidity risk The Groups cash requirements and balances are projected for the Group as a whole and for each country in which operations are conducted and capital expenditure is incurred.
The Group meets these requirements through an appropriate mix of available funds, equity instruments and debt financing.
The Group will seek to minimise the impact that any debt financings may have on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies.
Primarily, these are expected to be denominated in US dollars.
The Group further mitigates liquidity risk by maintaining an insurance programme to minimise exposure to insurable losses.
Foreign currency risk The proceeds of the Group's domestic oil sales in Russia are received in Russian roubles but the price of oil which determines the amount of those revenues is based upon the US dollar denominated oil price.
The proceeds of future international oil sales of the Group will be received in US dollars.
The Group's expenses in Russia are primarily incurred in Russian roubles and in Kazakhstan are primarily incurred in the Kazakh tenge.
The Group has also raised funds in UK sterling.
However, the Group's policy is to conduct and manage its business in US dollars.
The Group is therefore exposed to fluctuations in the relative values of UK sterling, the US dollar, the Russian rouble and the Kazakh tenge.
To manage this exposure, the Group has where appropriate entered into foreign exchange contracts and is likely to enter into further foreign exchange contracts in the future.
Commodity price risk The Groups production is usually sold on spot or near term contract, with prices fixed at the time of a transfer of custody or at a monthly average price.
Over time, during periods when the Group sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it may engage in limited price hedging.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets comprise trade receivables, bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents.
Trade receivables are presented in the balance sheet net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high creditratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
John Hamilton Group Finance Director Market The Russian oil industry in context The Russian oil and gas industry has undergone dramatic changes since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Rising oil prices have boosted investment and contributed to the increasing growth in production, which after the collapse was at its historically lowest levels of 6 million bopd in 1996.
In recent years, Russian oil production has surged and will likely peak by 2012 according to Wood Mackenzie estimates 2008.
Russia now accounts for 81% of total FSU oil production and output is expected to continue to grow to nearly 10mmbbls per day after which new investment opportunities will dwindle and depletion of older fields will probably exceed growth in output from new areas.
The recent growth shows the benefit of the application of modern technology and management methods to boost output from the less mature regions of West Siberia and offshore.
In particular, the introduction in less drilled West Siberian fields of hydraulic fracturing and directional drilling has already led to substantial increases in production Douglas-Westwood, 2008.
Western Siberia The majority of Russias production increases over the past decade have come from Western Siberia: the basin accounts for over 60% of the countrys oil production according to Douglas-Westwood estimates 2008.
The region has extremely well developed infrastructure and export capacity.
The introduction of new technologies and Western business practices, including increased EOR efforts, will drive the regions growth as well as new developments.
The Tomsk region is in the eastern part of the West Siberian basin and is the second largest oil-producing province in Western Siberia with daily production about 300,000 bopd for the last few years.
Oil price environment 2007 was a year of soaring oil prices.
Starting at US$61.05 bbl the Brent blend reached US$70 bbl in June.
Fuelled by US dollar weakness, falling inventories in the US and bad weather in crude-producing regions, oil broke through the US$90 bbl barrier and came within just 71 cents of US$100 bbl, hitting an all-time intraday high of US$99.29 bbl in electronic trading early on November 21 Market Watch, December 2007.
The Russian domestic oil prices generally followed the trend.
According to the Russian Ministry of Economy and Trade, the average price of Urals blend oil in 2007 was US$69.3 bbl, 13.4% higher than in 2006: averaging US$86.4 bbl in 4Q 2007.
Due to increased oil prices better netbacks were realised towards the end of the year.
As this report goes to print, the oil price is in excess of US$100 bbl with some experts expecting it to increase further.
On the downside, accelerating cost inflation was one of the most noticeable trends in the Russian oil sector in 2007.
A number of factors have contributed to this, including the appreciation of the rouble against the dollar, increased costs for steel and labour, rising Transneft tariffs for domestic and export deliveries average 16% increase in 2007, JP Morgan estimates and development drilling costs average 20.6% increase in 2007, JP Morgan estimates.
Russias oil companies also face high export duties: the crude export duty was set at a record high of US$37.6 bbl for the period December 2007-January 2008.
All these contributed to increased operating costs across the industry.
