Operating and financial review Chief executives review John Dodds Kier Group plc has once again delivered Chief Executive excellent results for the year to 30 June 2007 continuing the reliable, consistent performance that has become a prominent feature of our business.
This performance, a consequence of our long-term approach to both risk management and business opportunities, is reflected in the strong earnings per share record which has had a compound annual growth rate of over 23% for the last ten years and a 28.3% increase this year to 155.0p 2006: 120.8p.
In this section: Business review, markets and outlook: 09 Construction 13 Support Services 14 Homes 17 Property 18 Infrastructure Investment 22 Financial review 25 Business risks 26 Corporate social responsibility Revenue Operating profit 2.1bn 77.9m Revenue for the year of Operating profit for the year 2,127.9m was 15.8% of 77.9m was 31.6% ahead ahead of last year of last year 06 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Revenue, profits and cash generation for Group structure and strategic the year to 30 June 2007 are at record developments levels.
Our order books for the new Kier Group comprises five divisions: financial year are very strong with ample Construction, Support Services, Homes, opportunity available reflecting probably Property Development and Infrastructure the best Construction and Support Services Investment investment under the PFI.
markets that we have ever experienced The Groups management structure and and a housing market that continues to be segmental analysis for reporting purposes sound.
Our integrated contractor developer are based on the five divisions.
approach to mixed-use schemes continues to set us aside from others and provides The Group has a well established business excellent opportunities in the affordable model that has underpinned its growth housing-led regeneration sector.
and development over a number of years.
Whilst our origins are in construction Financial performance activities, by undertaking strategic Revenue for the year at 2,127.9m 2006: investments in housing, property 1,838.3m was 15.8% ahead of last year development, support services and PFI with strong growth from all of our divisions.
we have developed a business model Operating profit, after amortisation of comprising complementary activities.
intangible assets and joint venture interest They provide a balanced cash profile After a successful hand-over in January 2007, and tax, was 31.6% ahead of last year enabling the funds generated by lower Westfield Secondary School, part of the Sheffield at 77.9m 2006: 59.2m and profit margin construction operations to be Schools PFI scheme, was officially opened by before tax increased by 31.3% to 77.6m invested in higher margin, asset-rich Rt Hon.
Funding for the project was secured by Kier Project Investment, 2006: 59.1m before minority interests businesses such as housing, property the schools were built by Kier Build and Kier of 0.8m 2006: nil.
development and PFI, while operationally Northern.
Kier Managed Services is providing we are able to combine complementary facilities management for 25 years at the schools Adjusted earnings per share, before the skills to offer fully integrated services to with Kier Sheffield providing mechanical and electrical maintenance.
amortisation of intangible assets, increased clients throughout the UK.
again seen many examples of mixed-use projects on which our businesses have The robust trading performance was worked together to provide a total in-house supported by excellent cash generation solution for the delivery of these in the year with 114.8m generated from developments.
We are one of the few operating activities 2006: 96.6m resulting Groups able to do this and we intend to in a year-end net cash position of 148.4m continue to use our skills to generate further 2006: 111.2m.
Further special pension profit growth from these opportunities.
contributions of 11.0m were made to the Kier Group Pension Scheme in the year As part of our strategy to grow our Homes 2006: 31.5m.
In addition we acquired division we acquired the shares in Hugh the shares in Hugh Bourn Developments Bourn Developments Wragby Limited in Wragby Limited for 46.8m of which July 2006.
This business has provided the 24.0m was paid in the year.
fifth operating area for our Homes division, extending our operations north of Allison The Construction division generated Homes area of Lincolnshire and North 62.5m of cash in the year after tax and Cambridgeshire.
dividends reflecting a strong underlying trading performance and increased volumes of revenue.
The division ended the year with a record cash balance including intraMoss Constructions project at Stroud College was officially opened by HRH The Princess Royal.
Site agent Ben Ramsay is pictured sharing a light hearted moment with the Princess.
07 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Construction 1.6% 1.5% 1.3% 1.1% 21.9 18.0 13.8 10.7 2004 2005 2006 2007 Operating profit m Margin % Tesco, Shrewsbury Built by Kier North West, the new Tesco Extra at Shrewsbury is the first Tesco store built in England with a full suite of environmental initiatives.
These elements include a timber frame, timber roof purlins, timber framed north lights, photovoltaic cells to generate electricity, geothermal heating and cooling system, CO2 refrigeration to reduce emissions, rainwater harvesting and eco-friendly paint.
The project was supported by Kier Plant and the framework team of Kier Retail.
1,710m Record Construction order book at 30 June 2007 2006: 1,470m 08 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued The Gordano School project, near Portishead, was a complex redevelopment of an existing school campus undertaken by Kier Western and involved a number of new buildings and the refurbishment of existing facilities to provide a comprehensive, modern school campus which includes integrated IT facilities throughout.
This was completed for North Somerset Council in November 2006. Business review, markets and outlook business, averaging 4.7m, 2006: 3.2m continues to provide a lower-risk, and more Construction sustainable, order book.
The Construction segment comprises Kier Regional and Kier Construction.
Demand for commercial property has been Kier Regional encompasses our ten strong in the year representing 23% of our regional contracting businesses, our awards including a 66m office scheme in affordable housing business and major Snow Hill Birmingham by Kier Build, our building projects.
Kier Construction major projects business, and a 36m office comprises the Groups infrastructure block, The Pinnacle, in the centre of and overseas operations with civil Milton Keynes by a joint team comprising engineering, infrastructure, rail, the Kier Regional businesses of Marriott mining and remediation capability.
The retail market continues to be buoyant in most Overall revenue increased by 15.9% regions, representing around 10% of to a record 1,411.2m for the year awards secured during the year.
A number 2006: 1,218.1m with good growth in of contracts have been awarded for both Kier Regional and Kier Construction.
Morrison, John Lewis Partnership & Operating profit increased by 21.7% to Waitrose, Sainsbury and Tesco including 21.9m 2006: 18.0m and the operating a Tesco Extra environmental concept store margin increased to 1.6% from 1.5% at Shrewsbury incorporating geothermal last year.
heating and cooling, rainwater harvesting and a host of other sustainable features.
Cash generation, one of our key performance measures, has been extremely Public sector demand has also been strong, strong again this year with cash balances particularly in the education sector which at 30 June 2007 62.5m higher than the represented 22% of our awards for the previous year-end after tax and dividends year.
New schools work has been secured and average balances for the year 49m by a number of our businesses either ahead.
Contract awards were higher than conventionally or through frameworks, last year providing a record order book of most notably for the South East Centre of 1,710m at 30 June 2007 2006: 1,470m.
Excellence SECE, and a primary schools framework in which Kier was selected Kier Regional business review as one of three partner contractors for The performance in the Kier Regional South Lanarkshire Council.
Colleges and businesses was outstanding this year with universities also provided a strong work excellent progress made in the key stream nationwide.
We were delighted to performance measures of revenue, profit have been selected as one of six preferred margins and cash.
Revenue, at 1,209.9m, contractors on the Contractors Framework was 10.7% ahead of 2006: margins have for Academies and other Educational again increased and the cash performance Facilities which is forecast to provide remains strong with average cash balances, 1.7bn of work, in total for the six including intra-Group loans, around contractors over the next four years.
Our 42m higher than last year, ending the framework agreement with the Home year at a record 336m 2006: 278m.
Office for custodial work on prisons is affording us good opportunities providing Contract awards were ahead of last year 8% of awards in the year with a significant with 55% arising from private sector level of further contracts in negotiation.
clients 2006: 57% and 45% from the The affordable housing sector is also public sector 2006: 43%.
Negotiated, buoyant presenting good prospects partnered and two-stage tenders through our framework agreements with represented around 64% of work secured housing associations and local authorities.
2006: 65% reflecting the strength of our The division completed 850 affordable South Hook Liquefied Natural Gas LNG terminal at Milford Haven is a joint venture project being long-term relationships with clients, our housing units this year including the undertaken by Kier Construction with Brusselsregional framework agreements and our 161 unit Burford Wharf scheme for based Besix.
The three-year contract involves commitment to long-term partnering.
Dominion Housing and was awarded rejuvenating the former oil jetty into an LNG This, coupled with the relatively low around 98m of new contracts in the year.
Kier Engineering Services is also involved in several aspects of the project.
value of contracts undertaken within the 09 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued The state-of-the-art Half Way Tree Transportation Centre in Kingston, Jamaica, housing a bus station over two levels to serve 200,000 commuters, is being constructed by a joint venture of Besix and Kier Construction.
We have seen an increase in the number of a mixed-use scheme.
Both of these We have a good track record in civil of opportunities for two or more of our projects were completed on time and, more engineering work for power stations and businesses to combine their skills, resources importantly, within budget giving us a firm recent awards at Immingham and Langage and geographical experience in order to foundation of experience to pursue similar confirm our strong reputation in the energy deliver appropriate services to customers.
markets which, we believe, will continue The recently awarded project to deliver to expand and include opportunities in the the new 35m UK Supreme Court for the At our private open cast coal mine, waste to energy sectors.
Ministry of Justice in Parliament Square, Greenburn in East Ayrshire, we have London is a prime example of this where now extracted 2.0m tonnes of coal since Overseas, our relationships with clients the skills of Wallis, our specialist production began in April 2004.
We expect and joint venture partners are providing refurbishment contractor, combined with production to continue into 2012 and us with good opportunities, particularly Kier Property to secure the project.
Marriot have forward sold 38% of the remaining in Romania, where we have negotiated Construction is working with Kier Property 2.0m tonnes of anticipated coal at contracts for a shopping mall and to deliver a new UK headquarters for favourable prices.
In the Middle East, EDS in Milton Keynes and Kier South East we are building on our experience of has joined with Bellwinch to develop Overseas good progress made in the phosphate mining in Jordan and are 281 flats in Maidstone.
In addition Kier Caribbean on Jamaicas Norman Manley in negotiation on a contract to mine Plant provides tower cranes and site International Airport and on a large phosphate in Saudi Arabia in joint venture accommodation to a large number of our transportation centre in Kingston, Jamaica with a local partner.
sites and Kier Building Service Engineers, was overshadowed by a challenging providing mechanical and electrical design project in Antigua comprising a large fiveThe UK construction markets are probably services, is often an integral part of our star hotel complex for Sandals.
The hotel the best that we have ever experienced, construction teams.
has now opened on a phased basis and the providing us with record order books at projected financial outturn of the contract 30 June 2007 of 1,710m 2006: 1,470m Kier Construction business review has been provided for in full in the results supported by a significant pipeline of Kier Construction saw a 61.0% increase for the year to 30 June 2007. contracts in the final stages of negotiation.
in its revenue in the year to 201.3m With these strong, good quality order 2006: 125.3m through a combination Construction markets and outlook books, the scene is set to deliver further of growth in UK framework contracts, The UK construction market remains growth in our Construction division over traditional UK civil engineering contracts buoyant in both the public and private the next few years.
In UK civil engineering, sectors.
In the public sector healthcare a good performance was achieved in our spending slowed during the year but is five-year rail infrastructure framework for again strengthening and the outlook for railway structures renewal in East Anglia education and custodial projects is positive.
In the water sector, the As the education and custodial sectors five-year joint venture integrated alliance operate procurement framework under the Asset Management Programme arrangements of which we are a part 4 for United Utilities is developing well.
we are well placed to attract further work.
Affordable homes and the social housing At Milford Haven, where we are carrying sector remain strong and we welcome out offshore works for the South Hook the recent Government Green Paper on LNG terminal, we are making excellent housing.
This indicates provision of 8bn progress despite poor weather conditions of public money for the affordable housing and remain on target to meet the clients programme between 2008 and 2011 planned date of commissioning by and a target of at least 70,000 new May 2008. affordable homes each year by 2010 11 of which 45,000 would be for social Our remediation capability, where rented accommodation.
This represents a brownfield sites are redeveloped for 50% increase in the supply of new social commercial, residential or mixed-use, homes in the three years.
These planned continues to grow.
In Peterborough increases will provide good opportunities work has now completed on a former for our Construction businesses and in Part of the 80m bauxite mine development for Jamalco, being undertaken in Jamaica by Kier Anglian Water site for our Homes business particular Kier Partnership Homes which Construction, this aerial conveyor was built over a and in Uxbridge, Kier Construction has has recently achieved partner status with 3.4km stretch to overcome mountainous terrain.
Kier successfully remediated a British Gas site the Housing Corporation allowing us to bid Engineering Services was involved in the design of for Kier Property ahead of development directly for social housing grant funding.
10 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Stroud College, Gloucester The Stroud College project achieved early completion, a testament to the excellent teamwork which prevailed throughout between Gloucester County Council, the school, consultants and Moss Construction.
The scheme comprises eight new classrooms, two new food technology rooms, toilet facilities and a covered central street.
64% Negotiated, partnered and two-stage tenders represented 64% of Kier Regionals contracts awarded 2006: 65% 11 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Support Services 3.9% 3.1% 2.9% 12.2 2.4% 8.7 6.9 4.7 2004 2005 2006 2007 Operating profit m Margin % Before amortisation of intangible assets Kier Support Services Kier Support Services, through its four business streams, is active throughout the UK.
Within London, Kier Building Maintenance has recently been awarded new public sector contracts in Harlow, Harrow and Hackney.
1,788m Record Support Services order book at 30 June 2007 2006: 1,396m 12 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued Kier Street Services, part of Kier Building Maintenance, has invested in a new wheelie bin collection system to boost waste recycling in Corby and to dramatically increase the proportion of recyclable materials collected from the boroughs 24,000 properties.
David Milliband MP, Secretary of State for the Environment, visited Kier Street Services in Corby and took time to meet with Kier staff to see recycling services provided to residents.
Sheffield City Council, provided the to us in the year with combined annual largest volume of revenue for the year at revenues of around 100m.
These, 107.1m 2006: 94.2m and includes like Sheffield, are likely to grow as our Sharrow Industries, a sheltered workshop partnerships flourish to embrace other Support Services run by Kier Sheffield LLP which areas of Kier expertise, including street Support Services comprises four business manufactures and supplies kitchens, cleaning, street scene works and grounds streams: Kier Building Maintenance, windows and doors under an exclusivity maintenance.
A strong pipeline of other providing reactive and planned agreement with the five contractors under good opportunities continues to be maintenance principally to local authority the Decent Homes initiative.
Sheffield City explored and we are preferred bidder on clients, housing associations and Arms Councils share of profits from the LLP Hammersmith & Fulham approximately Length Management Organisations: Kier for the year was 0.8m and has been 5m per annum and Hackney Managed Services, providing facilities disclosed as a minority interest in the approximately 4m per annum and management services to public and income statement.
A good performance short-listed as one of two bidders on private sector clients: Kier Building was achieved in Kier Islington on increased Stoke approximately 35m per annum.
Services Engineers, our specialist volumes of 46.6m 2006: 37.6m and mechanical and electrical design, we were proud to have been involved in We have a strong track record of delivery installation and maintenance business: Islington Councils UK Housing Award on the high value Building Maintenance and Kier Plant which hires plant to Kier for preventing homelessness through the contracts which places us in a good Group companies and external clients.
position to secure further work.
Support Services business review During what has been predominantly Revenue in the Support Services segment a year of consolidation, Kier Managed rose 12.2% to 315.5m 2006: 281.3m Services continued to secure a good mix driven by a combination of organic growth of both public and private sector contracts and the inclusion of a number of new, largely through renewals.
There was large building maintenance contracts significant activity in the PFI arena, of awarded in the year.
Operating profit, which a good share of contracts emanated before deducting the amortisation of from Kier Project Investment for whom Kier intangibles of 2.0m and minority interests Managed Services manages a portfolio of of 0.8m 2006: 1.9m and nil, increased healthcare projects, libraries and schools.
by 40.2% to 12.2m 2006: 8.7m at an improved margin of 3.9% 2006: 3.1% The past year has seen a record 11.0m exceeding our original target set for this of investment by Kier Plant in new year.
The cash position within the division equipment including tower cranes, remains strong with 3.3m generated in generators, telehandlers and site the year to give a closing balance of accommodation.
Once again we fleet of 95 tower cranes and 3,400 have seen significant growth in the order accommodation units on hire to both books which stand at 1,788m at 30 June Kier companies and external clients.
2007 2006: 1,396m, including Building Maintenance at 1,211m 2006: 844m, Support Services markets and outlook Managed Services at 528m 2006: 537m Opportunities in the facilities management and Kier Building Services Engineers at market continue to emerge for Kier 49m 2006: 15m.
Managed Services in both the public and private sectors and our strategy of In Building Maintenance, the largest being selective on what we pursue is division with revenues of 228.3m reaping rewards.
2006: 172.5m, we have enjoyed unprecedented success over the last year.
In Building Maintenance both local We now look after 200,000 public sector authority expenditure, through housing homes throughout the country, having repairs and maintenance budgets, and Kier Plant has been investing in the latest cranes, secured 525m of new contracts in the central government expenditure, through plant, machinery and transport, having placed year including Hull, Sefton Liverpool, the Decent Homes initiative, continue an order for ten top-slewing saddle jib cranes to Harlow, Harrow, Hackney and Brighton.
to provide good potential for new work.
replace older stock, 15 new telehandlers and two Kier Sheffield LLP, our partnership with A number of new contracts were awarded Volvo FM crane trucks amongst other equipment.
13 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued One of four prestigious Daily Telegraph What House?
awards presented to Dan Browne of Twigden Homes adjustments.
24.0m was paid during the last three weeks of August ahead of the year and 12.9m on 2 July 2007 with the same period last year.
The order book balance due on 1 July 2008.
Hugh Bourn at 31 August, comprising reserved and rebranded Kier Homes Northern has exchanged units, is 11% ahead of last year Homes formed the foundation for a fifth trading by value and 5% ahead by number of units Kier Residential, our housebuilding division of Kier Residential.
reflecting the high level of social housing division, comprises five companies: Allison units included in last years order book.
Homes operating throughout Lincolnshire As well as the corporate acquisition, and north Cambridgeshire: Bellwinch Kier Residential had a busy year in 2007.
We will be trading from broadly the same Homes with sites in the south and southA number of new developments started number of outlets this year as last but are east: Kier Homes, operating across the including our first carbon neutral anticipating a notable increase in the central belt of Scotland: Twigden Homes development of 281 flats in Maidstone number of unit sales from three of our with activities in East Anglia and the with Kier South East, the previous occupier businesses: Kier Homes Northern, our Midlands: and the recently acquired of the site, as contractor.
At Sunbury, newest business, is gearing up its operations Hugh Bourn Homes, operating as Kier Kier Residential is developing 96 homes, in line with the rest of the division: Kier Homes Northern, in north Lincolnshire.
48 of which are for a housing association, Homes in Scotland and Bellwinch, our on a site previously owned by Kier Property.
south-east business, are both benefiting Homes business review In Scotland a development of 489 units at from a number of major new developments Kier Residential sold 1,767 homes in the Belvidere Village in the east end of Glasgow this year which are currently trading very year 2006: 1,522 representing a 16.1% was launched in November 2006 with the well.
Around 40% of our projected unit increase in unit sales over last year.
Average first completions being taken in the year sales for the full year are already secure by selling prices were marginally lower than to June 2007.
A number of large sites were way of completions, exchanged contracts last year at 179,300 2006: 180,100 purchased during the year including 192 and reservations and, similar to the pattern reflecting the inclusion of 162, slightly units at Costessey, Norfolk, 245 units at of sales in 2007, we expect the balance of lower value, units from Kier Homes Redding Park in the central belt of Scotland, units to be skewed to the second half of Northern which was acquired in July 2006.
213 units at Little Paxton, Cambridgeshire the year.
Revenue of 316.8m was generated from and 225 units at Turnford College, housing sales 2006: 274.2m and land Hertfordshire.
In addition detailed planning The outlook for regeneration and disposals generated a further 8.3m of consent was granted for 330 units at Stoke brownfield opportunities is excellent and revenue 2006: 3.7m at a nominal profit Mandeville, Buckinghamshire and the first a number of developments are expected of 0.2m 2006: 0.1m.
The proportion of phase of 550 units at Fengate, to come forward including two in joint social housing sales remained constant at Peterborough.
venture with Kier Property: a major project 16% 2006: 16%.
Operating profit from in Ashford New Town and the Ordnance housing sales increased by 14.7% to During the year 87.5m was spent on Survey site in Southampton, together 47.6m 2006: 41.5m at a margin of selective land purchases, including a providing over 1,000 units.
significant amount on deferred terms, and welcome the recent Green Paper on at 30 June 2007 the land bank contained housing which should benefit our business On 31 July 2006 we acquired the shares 6,465 units 2006: 5,863 units which, at over the next few years.
in Hugh Bourn Developments Wragby 3.7 years worth of current years sales, is Limited for a total consideration of marginally less than our target holding of 46.8m representing the market value four years unit sales.
We are planning of land, work in progress and fixed assets further investment in land in our current after taking into account liabilities and areas of operation and continue to look for opportunities to expand the business.
In addition to land with planning consent we hold approximately 11,500 plots of Housing completions strategic land mostly under option which continue to provide a valuable route for land acquisition as, historically, between 2003 990 16% and 18% of our annual unit sales 2004 1,158 have originated from this process.
2005 1,215 Housing markets and outlook 2006 1,522 The typically quiet selling period over the 2007 1,767 summer started earlier than in previous Kier companies were awarded a record nine years in our areas of operation but also NHBC Pride in the Job Quality Awards, with ended earlier with reservations in the Allison Homes picking up three of them.
14 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 12 2 3 4 5 1.
Allison Homes: The Oaklands, South Wootton.
Kier Homes Northern: Holtons at Hunters Chase, Tattershall.
Twigden Homes: Elliott Mews development at Tempsford.
Bellwinch Homes: Concordia development, Bath.
Carbon neutral: the Blue Quarter riverside apartments in Maidstone, being undertaken by Bellwinch, will become Kents first complete new-build housing project to be officially approved as carbon neutral.
Kier Residential registered with the Carbon Neutral Company in 2006.
6 Homes 15.1% 15.0% 14.7% 14.9% 47.6 41.5 32.9 31.8 2004 2005 2006 2007 Operating profit from housing sales m Margin % 15 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Property 19.7% 19.4% 16.7% 14.2% 12.1 10.4 9.2 6.6 2004 2005 2006 2007 Operating profit m Margin % Supreme Court In June 2007, Kier Group was awarded the contract to deliver the refurbishment of the new United Kingdom Supreme Court.
This prestigious project will see the Group renovate Middlesex Guildhall in Parliament Square, London.
Work is expected to be completed by spring 2009.
Kier Property is spearheading the project and Kiers historic building refurbishment specialist, Wallis, is acting as main contractor.
940m Prospective end value of portfolio of 29 properties 16 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued Kier Property has been selected to deliver the development of the 4.5-acre riverside site, GQ2, in Gateshead, for retail, offices, hotel, leisure and residential use.
with other Group companies, selected as work has started on a 250,000sq ft warehouse development partner for a number of which, on completion, will be sold to Tesco projects including the new United Kingdom Pension Fund.
Property Supreme Court, in Parliament Square, Our Property development activity covers London.
The 35m project comprises a Property markets and outlook commercial, offices, industrial, retail and 70,000sq ft renovation of the Grade II Looking ahead, the relationship with Invista mixed-use sectors largely on a low-risk listed Middlesex Guildhall by Wallis, our is likely to be further augmented with the basis.
It operates through Kier Ventures, specialist refurbishment contractor, which addition of a second 125,000sq ft phase a wholly owned subsidiary, and Kier will be let to the Ministry of Justice on a of Reading Central.
Several sites within Developments, a 50% joint venture with 30-year lease on practical completion in Kier Propertys existing portfolio will be the Bank of Scotland.
We also finalised our brought forward to maximise value for the agreement to deliver a new 150,000sq ft company including the recently acquired Kier Property enjoyed another highly head office for Ordnance Survey at Breakspear House, a former Royal Mail successful year, significantly enhancing its Adanac Park in Southampton.
Through building in Hemel Hempstead.
This will be portfolio through acquisitions as well as our Construction, Support Services and redeveloped for industrial, office and hotel crystallising considerable value on several Homes divisions, we will redevelop uses complementing our nearby Trade City existing properties.
The portfolio now totals Ordnance Surveys existing office in the Hemel site, which is nearing completion.
29 properties representing over 5m sq ft of area into a 24-acre site embracing development with a prospective end value residential, commercial, office and We are hopeful of achieving planning of over 930m.
consent, in the near future, on a number of large regeneration schemes in which we The active management of its properties Regeneration is at the forefront of Kier are involved including Poole and Ashford led to a 29.1% increase in revenue to Propertys approach to development.
As New Town which will use the multi- 61.3m in the year 2006: 47.5m, well as the Southampton and Ponders End disciplined services within Kier Group.
with operating profit up from 9.2m to projects we made progress on a number of 12.1m representing a margin of 19.7% key regeneration projects during the year: Occupational demand continues to be 2006: 19.4%.
strong but we anticipate a correction in In October 2006, we were selected to pricing in the property investment market A number of developments were sold deliver a major mixed-use sustainable which we believe will lead to further during the year including two to Invista development of a 4.5-acre town centre opportunities for strategic acquisitions of Real Estate: the 80,000sq ft Mannington site in Newcastle called GQ2.
The sites and businesses where we are able to Retail Park development in Swindon: and scheme will include a blend of residential, add value through the development process the 216,000sq ft first phase of Reading leisure, retail, hotel and office uses.
Central, a commercial site in the centre of Kier Property is also set to deliver a Reading.
We have retained a 50% equity 35m regeneration of a former gas works stake in Mannington Retail Park and have in Uxbridge, following a comprehensive created an innovative joint venture with remediation of the site during the year Invista Real Estate to bring forward both of by Kier Construction.
these major developments with Kier taking The redevelopment of the former on the development management role.
Shippams food factory in Chichester was At Mannington we will develop 45,000sq ft also completed in the year, with New of new retail units and re-clad an existing Look and Hennes taking occupation of terrace of four units.
At Reading, a revised the 50,000sq ft of retail space.
planning application has been submitted Work has now completed on a new and work is expected to begin on site by 175,000sq ft replacement produce and the end of 2007 with discussions under way flower hall for the Western International amongst a number of potential occupiers.
Market, near Heathrow which will allow us Since the financial year-end, Kier and to bring forward a 300,000sq ft distribution Invista have added a third development to scheme on the site of the old market.
the joint venture, purchasing the 23-acre Ponders End industrial estate in Enfield.
Kier Propertys industrial division continued its This will be converted into a 500,000sq ft success.
This included delivering 145,000sq ft Wavendon Park in Milton Keynes is being regeneration project, comprising a mix of of development in Weybridge, Surrey which developed by Kier Property to deliver four new, uses including hotel, self-storage, car was almost entirely pre-let or pre-sold, under two-storey office buildings totalling 13,800sq m to EDS as a new headquarters campus.
The project is showroom, industrial and offices.
Trade City has now being phased to allow EDS to remain on site while developed almost 1m sq ft of bespoke the old buildings are demolished and the new ones The year saw Kier Property, through our industrial units for local and national built.
Marriott Construction is undertaking the integrated developer contractor approach occupiers.
At Warth Park in Northamptonshire building works.
17 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued Chair of the Kent Police Authority, Ann Barnes and Chief Constable Michael Fuller visiting the 30-year PFI North Kent police station, which includes Kier Project Investment funding and is being constructed by Kier South East.
Infrastructure Investment comprising part new build and part Kier Project Investment KPI manages the refurbishment, now handed over.
The core strength of period also saw construction completed KPI is its ability to bring together the diverse at the Meadowhead and Westfield schools range of skills and resources within the in Sheffield.
Group and combine these with a financial package to deliver high quality buildings Infrastructure Investment markets and services to meet the needs of the and outlook public sector.
Having been involved Although our traditional markets of with, and committed to, PFI projects since education and health have slowed, by 1996, KPI is able to demonstrate continuity offering a one-stop package including of involvement from early design and investment, construction, facilities concept stage, through construction, to management and ongoing building facilities management and whole-life management services we are able to sustainability solutions.
provide the successful delivery of built environment requirements for communities Infrastructure Investment business review throughout the UK.
This will now include In July 2006 financial close was achieved new markets for us, such as fire stations, on the new Kent Police Constabulary, a prisons and waste projects, all areas in ground-breaking project incorporating which our Construction division has skills several aspects of sustainability in its and expertise.
design including ground source heating.
This brought our portfolio of PFI projects Our portfolio of projects, held at cost in to 13 and our committed equity investment the balance sheet, will continue to provide in PFI to 22.8m, of which 15.5m has additional value through refinancing and been invested to date.
possible disposal opportunities in the future.
The directors valuation of the Good progress is being made on the committed investment in our portfolio projects under construction including at 30 June 2007 was approximately The Garrett Anderson Centre at Ipswich 49m based on discounting the cash flow Hospital, a clinical services treatment from investments in financially closed centre.
The project is on schedule to projects at 7%.
be completed at the end of 2007, with the 27m construction project being undertaken by a collaboration of two Kier The Garrett Anderson Centre is the biggest Regional businesses.
Similarly, the six development at Ipswich Hospital for 30 years.
The PFI project, which includes Kier Project Investment Norwich schools scheme for Norfolk funding, is being constructed by Kier Eastern in County Council has progressed well with collaboration with Kier London.
Pictured left are the first phase of Taverham Secondary the Kier and NHS teams celebrating the topping School in Norwich, a conversion project out ceremony.
18 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Sheffield Schools PFI Kier Project Investment is an equity holder in the Sheffield Schools PFI scheme, part of Sheffield City Councils vision for raising educational standards throughout the city.
The project comprised the construction of two new primary schools, Grenoside and Hinde House, and two secondary schools, Westfield and Meadowhead.
The schools were built by Kier Regional, with Kier Build responsible for the secondary schools and Kier Northern the primary schools.
Full facilities management, including lifecycle replacement, leisure management and catering services, is being provided by Kier Managed Services for the duration of the 25-year concession period.
22.8m Committed investment in the PFI portfolio 19 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Chief executives review continued Kier Group director of safety, health & environment, John Morgan centre presents certificates and a Kier Group safety flag to representatives of Allison Homes who clocked up an impressive 2.5m manhours without a lost-time accident.
Health & Safety People Kier Groups management strategy of The talent, commitment and enthusiasm Safety, Health & Environmental issues of our people provide the winning continues to be a significant area of focus combination behind the Groups unbroken for all members of our management teams record of growth.
Whatever the scope of and employees.
project we undertake, its location or its complexity, it will involve Kier people The past year has seen a clear focus on exercising individuality, flair and a people issues, raising awareness within commitment to achieving success.
The the workforce and supply chain of the extent of awards won, commendations areas that cause injury and ill health.
One received and personal achievements of the biggest challenges to our industry throughout the year demonstrate our is tackling the professional risk takers by strong commitment to high quality service re-educating them to work safely.
I am proud of our Group and Kiers programme, linked to the Dont what we can achieve and I would like to Walk By message, involves addressing take this opportunity to thank all of our behavioural issues through a process under people for their ongoing contribution to development by our in-house occupational our record-breaking achievements and for psychologist planned to further enhance upholding our core values.
the safe working environment which we require on all of our projects.
Objectives and prospects The Group is in great shape.
Our Built by Kier Southern, HMP High Down in Sutton is Kier Group is an active member of the Construction order books are at record a project which is part of Kier Custodials strategic alliance for the Ministry of Justice Custodial Major Contractors Group MCG and levels and our Construction businesses are Properties, delivering a series of prisons in England.
continues to support and deliver the experiencing very strong markets allowing Some 17 projects are active with more under MCG Health & Safety Strategy for both us to be highly selective in the work we negotiation.
HMP High Down features extensive safety issues and occupational health undertake.
Our Support Services business off-site prefabrication methods of construction, underfloor heating and the use of geothermal heating improvements.
The positive proactive has reached new heights in terms of volume and cooling systems.
Several phased completions vigilance and professionalism of our site and profits and with the new awards in and hand-overs were undertaken in 2007. teams has ensured that we maintain and 2007 and potential awards for 2008 develop a positive safety culture.
Our we can expect increased growth in the Accident Incident Rate in 2007 was current financial year.
In Homes the 640 per 100,000 staff and subcontractors market continues to be sound and having measured against a Health & Safety established a new operating region during Executive benchmark of 946. the year we continue to look for further opportunities to expand the business.
In recognition of the overall efforts made Our Property division has a good portfolio by Kier staff, employees and supply chain of developments in the pipeline and is in maintaining safety vigilance we were seeking to grow further through strategic awarded the Quality in Construction Award acquisitions: and in PFI value will continue for Safety Management for the second to be created from new and existing successive year and Kier Group companies investments.
received 11 RoSPA Gold Medals, 9 RoSPA Gold, 1 RoSPA Silver and 16 British Safety With its strong markets, a sound business Council awards.
infrastructure and talented management teams I have enormous confidence in the Marriott Construction and Kier Build have joined future prospects for Kier.
forces to build developer Hampton Brooks latest venture, The Pinnacle.
The design and build contract, worth 36m, will deliver Milton Keynes John Dodds biggest office development in 25 years and has a projected completion date of spring 2009.
Chief Executive 20 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Millennium Madejski Hotel, Madejski Stadium, Reading A six-storey extension to this five-star hotel, undertaken by Moss Construction, has created a striking entrance to the hotel that is further enhanced by the high ceiling to the new reception area with its dramatic Murano glass chandeliers.
The hotel capacity has increased from 140 bedrooms to 201 in a modern contemporary style.
21 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
