Operating and Financial Review Strategy Business profile The strategy to achieve these objectives is: Marshalls is a market focussed UK Group combining inspirational design and innovative products and 1.
To deliver sustainable shareholder value by services to aid the transformation of Britains patios, continuing to develop, innovate and improve driveways and urban and commercial landscapes.
in our unique sourcing, manufacturing and distribution network.
The Group manufactures and supplies landscape, driveway and garden products from a range of This is achieved by continually investing in market materials including concrete, natural stone, iron, steel, and brand development, developing long term wood, glass and polyurethane, for Domestic and customer relationships, continually innovating Public Sector and Commercial use.
The home and introducing new products, investing in improvement and home building markets are the technology to improve product quality and largest users of the Groups products and we supply manufacturing efficiency and reducing costs goods ranging from paving and walling to wherever possible.
The business has high quality, greenhouses and garages.
Public Sector and timely management information and analysis and Commercial customers use Marshalls products to uses this to focus on areas for improvement.
transform landscapes including retail, industrial and new build as well as repair and maintenance projects.
To develop the Landscape Installations service offer, create pull through demand and build Marshalls customers are the large builders merchant brand awareness by investing in sales and groups, independent builders merchants, garden marketing direct to the consumer.
centres, contractors and Local Authorities and Domestic consumers.
Products are distributed from a This allows consumers to view a full range of national network of manufacturing and Service products in an aspirational and sympathetic Centres either to customers depots or, at their setting, request a design and identify a quality request, direct to site.
The Landscape Installations installer for their project.
Having already business makes a range of services available to the established a unique regional distribution and consumer through its growing national network of manufacturing network and having built an Display Centres.
installer register, this creates pull through demand by investing in marketing directly to the consumer.
Long Term Strategy and Business Objectives 3.
To develop further an integrated product offer Corporate Objectives for the Public Sector and Commercial market Marshalls corporate objectives are: by continually improving the range of products we offer.
Revenue growth of 7 per cent based on a compound annual growth rate CAGR over a The Public Sector and Commercial market three year period: requires a range of integrated products that deliver technical performance and the required 2.
Annual earnings per share growth of at least 3 per appearance.
cent above the retail price index, and a target of 6 per cent, on a CAGR basis, over a three year period: 4.
To invest in selective acquisitions and organic expansion in existing and related product 3. Dividend policy where dividends will move in line categories to expand our core business.
with medium term earnings growth: and 4.
Return on capital employed of 20 per cent per annum.
6 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Natural Stone Paving, The Wild Pheasant, Llangollen, Wales Sector and Commercial market was good with the Strategic Key Performance Indicators CPA estimating that Other New Work, a proxy for KPIs Public Sector and Commercial demand, was up by Performance is monitored using a full suite of 5.8 per cent in 2007.
This contrasts with the KPIs.
The Directors have identified the six Domestic market where the CPA estimates that measures below as the Groups strategic KPIs.
The Private Housing Repair, Maintenance and first two are measured on a CAGR basis over a Improvement expenditure, a proxy for Domestic three year period.
In addition to the strategic KPIs demand, was flat in 2007. there are KPIs for each area of the business.
A number of these are included later in the Trading Summary individual sections of this review.
The 2007 financial year began and ended strongly.
Target The summer was hampered by the exceptionally Revenue growth: 7 per cent per annum wet weather but there was strong underlying Earnings per share growth: RPI 6 per cent per annum demand in the Public Sector and Commercial Return on capital employed: 20 per cent Cash flow: Detailed forecast market.
Approximately 55 per cent of the business Customer service index: 95 per cent comes from the Public Sector and Commercial Health & Safety reduction in market and 45 per cent from the consumer driven reportable incidents: 10 per cent per annum Domestic market.
This provides a balance to Cash performance targets have been established for the demand as the performance of the two markets purpose of Directors' Performance Share Awards, details of can be counter cyclical.
The index combines measures of product availability, on time delivery performance and administrative and delivery accuracy.
Marshalls revenue at 402.9 million 2006: 378.1 million increased by 6.6 per cent compared with The results achieved on each of these measures the prior year.
Like for like revenue, excluding are set out in the appropriate sections below.
acquisitions, was 3.9 per cent ahead at 392.8 million 2006: 378.1 million.
Review of the Operations Markets In the Domestic market like for like revenue was slightly ahead of 2006, having been adversely Overall market conditions continued to be mixed affected by the unusually wet weather in June and in 2007.
The Construction Products Association July 2007.
These severe weather conditions CPA estimates that construction output has delayed installers and the additional need for grown by 2.6 per cent during 2007, an flood rectification work in some parts of the improvement on the prior year which country has also diverted tradesmen into lucrative experienced a 1.2 per cent increase.
The Public Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 7 Operating and Financial Review continued emergency insurance work.
Sales prices and mix to bring forward further projects to improve were around 4 per cent ahead of the prior year whilst productivity.
Marshalls now has 60 robots volumes were down by around 3.5 per cent.
installed across the Group and these continue to improve manufacturing efficiency.
The Public Sector and Commercial market continued to perform well with like for like revenue up 7 per The Group has a number of surplus properties cent.
Sales prices and mix were 4 per cent ahead with which are in the process of being sold.
The timing volumes up 3 per cent.
of sales continues to be dependent on suitable planning permissions being obtained and since The results for the year ended 31 December 2007 the year end there have been two disposals that represent a robust trading performance.
have realised proceeds of approximately 10 million.
The Groups property portfolio is under constant review in order to identify opportunities Manufacturing and Distribution to maximise its potential.
At the heart of Marshalls is a single manufacturing and distribution operation that supports the two Sustainability main markets and this provides a fundamental The Group continues to focus on sustainability competitive advantage, delivering industry leading and this remains an integral part of the Marshalls product availability and delivery performance.
This includes the elimination of waste and ensures that Marshalls has the lowest cost to market.
the better use of resources and, consequently, is The Marshalls operating strategy is to combine very much aligned with the Groups commercial regional manufacturing and distribution sites, known objectives.
Marshalls sustainability plan sets out as Service Centres, with national manufacturing to deliver benefit to the environment, recognise works.
The same capital equipment produces social progress and generate economic growth.
products for both the Domestic market and the There is a Group wide strategy of implementing Public Sector and Commercial market.
The national and operating to independently audited and manufacturing sites produce the newly introduced accredited systems for product quality, and specialist products that have not reached the environmental management and health and commercial volumes that justify regional safety.
Emphasis on sustainability has also manufacture.
Marshalls geographical spread is enabled the Group to add value to existing unique in the industry and provides a competitive products.
For instance, sales of sustainable urban advantage.
drainage products are increasing in response to demand from planners.
This is a paving solution Customer service is a high priority area.
The KPI covers that allows water to percolate into the ground to product availability, accuracy and timeliness of sustain the water table rather than letting it run deliveries as well as administrative accuracy.
Groups industry leading standards remained high in 2007 and the combined customer service measure In June 2007 Marshalls won the Premier Award for was 97 per cent 2006: 97 per cent.
Process Improvement from Business Commitment to the Environment.
As a mark of the Groups work The Group continues to invest to improve its in the area of biodiversity, the Maltby site is the productivity, to make the workplace safer and to first active manufacturing site in the UK to be reduce the environmental impact of its operations.
accredited with the Wildlife Trusts Biodiversity Capital investment in 2007 totalled 31.7 million Benchmark for Land Management.
This compares to a depreciation charge of 21.1 million 2006: 19.5 million.
The The Group continues to source significant significant level of capital expenditure in the last few quantities of natural stone from India and China.
years has generated improvements in productivity Marshalls was the first company from the UK and has allowed the Group to reduce the numbers Building Materials Sector to be a member of the employed in its core business by 5 per cent.
The wet Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, an alliance of weather in the summer also allowed the Group companies, trade unions and non-profit 8 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 organisations that aims to promote respect for recognise that a new driveway or garden will add the rights of workers worldwide.
As a member of value to their property.
Only 20 per cent of sales ETI, Marshalls has a programme in place to assess are DIY with 80 per cent being Do it for me working conditions in suppliers workplaces.
projects where a professional carries out the These suppliers are regularly and independently installation.
This latter market is more resilient as audited on the ETI nine point base code, which many of these consumers are in the higher wealth covers working conditions in the supply chain, to and income groups.
ensure compliance with that code.
The Groups Indian stone supplier has successfully The Group's Display Centres give the consumer demonstrated compliance with the ETI base code.
the opportunity to see how the product looks in a garden setting so that the market potential for Domestic more value added products can be unlocked.
The Group has a range of tailor made service offers Marshalls is a market leader in the domestic from a fully designed and installed proposition to driveway and patio markets and has led the assistance with product choice and ordering.
By development of the consumer landscape Easter 2008 there will be 8 operational Display products market over an extended period.
It is Centres and this will include sites in garden estimated that the product supply market is centres or out of town retail centres where there is approximately 940 million, however, for a typical established footfall.
The locations are illustrated landscaping project at least 80 per cent of the cost on the map on page 104.
It is anticipated that is the installation labour.
The total annual market there will be 2 further Display Centres established for gardens and driveways, including installation, by the middle of 2008. is approximately 3.8 billion per annum.
The Centres are welcomed by both installers and The Groups Domestic strategy continues to be to merchant stockists in the regions where they are unlock the potential of this market.
Landscape based as they generate additional footfall.
Sales Installations is part of the Groups core business growth is also greater in the area surrounding the and significant investment is being made annually centre and product mix is also improving.
The to create pull through demand, improve the total one-off investment in the continuation of the product mix and continually develop the Landscape Installations strategy and the Marshalls brand.
The objective is to deliver a level introduction of additional Display Centres during of service that is second to none.
Market the year amounted to 3.6 million 2006: 2.0 research suggests that our target consumers are million and this has been disclosed separately in relatively recession proof and that they Note 3 of the Financial Statements on page 71.
Marshalls Display Centres Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 9 Operating and Financial Review continued Brand awareness amongst installers and for the Public Sector and Commercial market.
In response to market demand, and working closely merchants is almost 100 per cent.
For intending with architects, designers and contractors, the purchasers it is 40 per cent and for the general Group continues to offer fully integrated solutions public it is 10 per cent.
"In order to improve brand that combine natural stone and concrete paving, recognition further, in 2007 Marshalls sponsored linear drainage, bollards, seating and attractively the Royal Horticultural Society ""RHS"" Chelsea designed lighting."
Marshalls is continuously Flower Show and this sponsorship will continue pushing the boundaries by providing for a further two years.
Marshalls also sponsored a inspirational design, innovative products and, large garden, The Marshalls Sustainability increasingly, facilitating expert installation.
Garden, which was awarded a silver medal at the Currently two thirds of Public Sector and 2007 Show.
The presence at Chelsea, the RHS Commercial sales come from concrete products with natural stone products comprising one Hampton Court and the RHS Tatton Park Flower quarter and street furniture products the Shows has significantly increased awareness of remainder.
the Marshalls brand and the Groups inspirational design services, innovative products and expert We have significantly increased our investment in installation.
At the 2007 RHS Chelsea Flower Show the Public Sector and Commercial market through the Group successfully launched its national both acquisitions and by strategic organic growth garden design and installation service.
Our investment is primarily capital in sponsorship deal is a very important part of our nature and these business initiatives are expected strategy to improve further our brand recognition.
to generate excellent medium term returns and cash flow.
The investment is into strong markets The Marshalls Register of approved installers, and is asset backed by minerals or tangible which are recommended to the consumer, processing plant.
Once established, these comprises over 1,500 installation teams around investments will be cash generating for many the country whose work is constantly vetted.
Further details of specific investment Installer order books remain at the normal level initiatives are provided in the following for this time of year at 8.4 weeks February 2007: paragraphs.
We continue to invest in new 9.1 weeks, February 2006: 8.4 weeks, February technology, such as robot handling and machine 2005: 8.3 weeks.
lay of concrete block paving to build competitive advantage and make our workplace safer and more environmentally friendly.
Public Sector and Commercial Marshalls is also a market leader for the supply of The Group added to its street furniture product a wide range of natural stone, concrete and portfolio with the acquisition of Ollerton, a fabricated products to the Public Sector and supplier of high quality and widely specified Commercial market including paving, kerbs, seating systems.
Street furniture includes bollards, edging, surface drainage and street furniture.
This seating, shelters, railings, specialist lighting and market includes PFI expenditure on schools and signage.
A programme is well underway to hospitals and now represents 55 per cent of the introduce modern business systems and integrate Groups revenue.
The aim is to deliver products that are attractive to look at and are also practical all our street furniture businesses, to deliver in use and to install.
Marshalls have a portfolio of synergies and provide a solid platform for future products that can be combined to create an organic growth.
Additional revenue investment attractive landscaped area and our technical has been made in Woodhouse Landscape expertise is an important part of our pre and post Projects, which is a business start up using the sales service.
Woodhouse brand which is well respected by architects and designers.
The business provides An important part of Marshalls strategy is the design services for prestigious landscape projects development of an integrated product offering and was formally launched at the Citiscape exhibition in February 2007.
10 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 The Group continues to seek opportunities to People expand reserves and geographical coverage in Marshalls has an experienced, flexible and well natural stone and during 2007 two businesses motivated workforce and is committed to were acquired.
Marshalls natural stone business developing its full potential.
There is a wide range includes paving, walling, aggregates, ready to use of in house and external training programmes with mortar and architectural masonry.
Since the year an emphasis towards on the job training.
The end the Group has secured access to significant Group is also working closely with Ashridge, an further reserves of limestone for walling and international leader in tailored executive cladding.
Additional investment in plant is education, to develop the knowledge, skills and planned for 2008 to extend the existing range of practices of its management team in order to walling products.
The Group has also been enhance leadership potential and to facilitate developing a sand and gravel reserve on the succession planning.
outskirts of Manchester and a natural stone reserve beside the M62 in West Yorkshire.
The A detailed report on our employees and health and combined capital expenditure relating to these safety initiatives is included within the Corporate two projects will be around 6 million.
During the and Social Responsibility Statement on pages 24 to year the Group further increased its total mineral 27.
It is pleasing to report a further reduction of 17 reserves comprising block stone for paving and percent in incidents reportable to the Health & walling and crushed aggregates and this is set Safety Executive in 2007, following a reduction of out in the table below.
13 per cent in the previous year.
Mineral Reserves Reserves tonnes m years 2007 2007 Block stone 8.5 72 Aggregates 48.1 22 Notes: 1.
Reserves means fully consented and available for extraction 2.
Years means number of years available at current extraction rates During 2007 the Group has also significantly expanded the geographical coverage of its Premier Mortars business which provides ready to use mortar for the building trade.
This additional investment has been approximately 4 million during 2007 and has provided Marshalls with a total of 10 operational sites.
Organisation The Groups organisational structure incorporates specialist businesses such as those manufacturing M3 Curved Seat and Furniture Street Furniture products.
The structure also enables the operationally independent businesses, such as Stonemarket and Paver Systems, to focus on the development of their own unique brand and position in the market place.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 11 Operating and Financial Review continued Innovation in all areas of the business over an Corporate Social Responsibility extended period has been a key element of the Marshalls places special emphasis on Corporate Groups success and significant resources will Social Responsibility and considers that this is continue to be invested in Research and very much aligned with the sustainable and Development in the future.
economic growth objectives which are for the benefit of all stakeholders.
The Group continues to work closely and in conjunction with the communities in which it operates to deliver constructive projects in a number of areas such as schools, sports associations and government backed incentives.
The Group has also been working with Lifeline Additions, which is part of the national Lifeline Project charity, to help people who are keen to gain skills and experience in construction.
In 2007 Marshalls made its first appearance in the Business in the Communitys BITC top 100 Companies that Count.
This was accompanied by a prestigious Big Tick award in the Ecoefficiency category of the BITC Awards for Excellence 2007.
On 4 February 2007, Marshalls pledged to fund the work of Hadoti Hast Shlip Sansthan HHSS, a voluntary organisation helping to transform the lives of migrant workers in the quarries of Rajasthan.
This investment has made a significant impact with a health camp offering check-ups, free medicines and vaccinations plus the identification of diseases prevalent in the area.
Research and Development Marshalls has a world class Manufacturing Innovation and Development team, staffed by high calibre engineers and technicians, which delivers competitive advantage through machinery design and installation.
Product availability and on time delivery is extremely high and this has enabled distribution costs to be controlled despite pressures from legislation, congestion and rising fuel prices.
The Group is continually striving to improve the flexibility and effectiveness of product manufacture and is at the forefront of technical research and development.
Trustone Torvale Paving 12 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Dividend per ordinary share pence Financial History 402.9 13.40 Revenue m 12.70 378.1 12.10 359.3 11.25 10.35 328.3 317.4 9.65 293.8 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 The above graph shows that dividends have, on a The CAGR for the five year period to the end of CAGR basis, grown by 6.8 per cent over the last five 2007 for revenue growth from continuing years.
Dividends disclosed on an IFRS basis do not operations was 6.5 per cent.
include the final 2007 declared dividend of 9.30 pence per share.
This final dividend represents a 5.1 Operating profit m per cent increase over the comparative final 48.8 48.8 dividend.
47.0 47.8 44.7 44.4 As at 31 December 2007 the Companys share price was 241.0 pence per share.
When dividends are included this gives a total shareholder return TSR of 46.6 per cent over a performance period from 1 January 2003 to 6 March 2008.
A performance graph has been disclosed on page 54 where the Groups TSR is compared with the FTSE 250 Index.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 13 Operating and Financial Review continued Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2007 Within this net charge the Group has expensed increased by 6.6 per cent to 402.9 million 2006: 4.3 million 2006: 2.0 million in relation to 378.1 million.
Of this, 3.9 per cent was organic strategic business initiatives during the year.
Of this, growth and 2.7 per cent related to acquisitions.
The 3.6 million 2006: 2.0 million relates to a growth strategy continues to include development continuation of the Landscape Installations through bolt-on acquisitions in addition to organic strategy and the introduction of additional Display developments.
Centres remains a key contributor to future growth.
Underlying profit Within this is 1.8 million relating to further 2007 2006 Growth marketing costs, including the RHS Chelsea Flower m m % Show, to support the development of the Display Operating profit: underlying 51.1 46.8 9.2 Centres and the Marshalls brand.
Strategic business initiatives: Landscape Installations 3.6 2.0 Strategic business initiatives in the Public Sector Commercial Expansion 0.7 - Works closure costs 0.2 1.1 and Commercial market have given rise to revenue Pension curtailment gains expenditure of 0.7 million during the year.
These net of expenses - 4.4 include the launch of Woodhouse Landscape Net profit loss on property disposals 2.2 0.3 Projects which provides design services for Operating profit: reported 48.8 47.8 2.2 prestigious landscape projects and a significant expansion of the geographical coverage of the Premier Mortars business which provides ready to Reported operating profit rose by 2.2 per cent to use mortar for the building trade.
Reported EBITDA was 70.5 million 2006: 67.6 million, an Works closure costs in the year were 0.2 million improvement of 4.3 per cent.
2006: 1.1 million for the relocation of the recently acquired Ollerton business to another of the The net effect of investment in strategic business Groups Street Furniture operations.
In addition, initiatives and other one-off items in the year was a during the year there has been a net profit of 2.2 net charge against operating profit of 2.3 million million on property transactions 2006: 0.3 million 2006: 1.0 million net credit, giving an underlying loss.
operating profit of 51.1 million 2006: 46.8 million an increase of 9.2 per cent.
Natural Stone Strategic Business Initiatives 14 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 After the net effect of the strategic business productivity improvements including the payback initiatives and other one-off items, detailed above, from previous capital expenditure on robotics to profit before tax increased by 1.0 per cent to 42.1 eliminate manual handling, and continued focus on million 2006: 41.7 million.
Basic earnings per the elimination of non value adding activities.
Sales share increased by 4.6 per cent to 21.28 pence volumes overall were similar to 2006.
Underlying earnings per share, before strategic business initiatives During the year the Group acquired one Street expensed, was 22.43 pence 2006: 19.89 pence per Furniture and two Natural Stone businesses and the share, an increase of 12.8 per cent.
combined expenditure on these and other strategic growth capital expenditure projects amounted to In addition to causing a short term reduction in 26.9 million.
This continued investment in growth earnings per share the strategic business initiatives capital and acquisitions, together with 17.6 million have also impacted capital employed and given rise in relation to replacement and improvement capital to a temporary decrease in Return on Capital expenditure, increased depreciation and Employed ROCE to 16.6 per cent.
ROCE on the amortisation by 1.8 million.
traditional, underlying core business at 20.3 per cent exceeds the corporate target of 20.0 per cent.
Underlying margin reconciliation Movement in Operating Revenue profit Impact m m % 2006: underlying 378.1 46.8 12.4 Acquisitions 10.1 0.7 0.1 Cost increases recovered through sales prices 14.0 - 0.4 Organic 0.7 3.6 0.8 2007: underlying 402.9 51.1 12.7 The reported operating profit margin was 12.1 per cent 2006: 12.6 per cent.
The underlying operating profit margin in 2007 was 12.7 per cent, an increase of 0.3 per cent in the margin compared with 2006.
Acquisitions contributed additional sales of 10.1 million and operating profits of 0.7 million.
As in 2006, cost increases of approximately 14.0 million were largely recovered through sales price increases.
This had little effect on the absolute operating profit, although it did give rise to a small dilution in the operating margin of 0.4 per cent.
Cost increases incurred in the year included cement, aggregates, energy, transport and payroll costs.
The underlying organic business performance increased by 3.6 million leading to a margin improvement of 0.8 per cent.
This increase arose from further Conservation Setts, RHS Wisley Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 15 Operating and Financial Review continued Random Coursed Pattern Zephyr Operating Performance Financial KPIs The key financial KPIs were set out on page 7.
These Analysis of revenue growth by market financial KPIs were established in January 2006.
The 2007 2006 Change current performance against these targets, since that Market: m m % date, can be set out as follows: Domestic 183.2 182.3 0.5 Public Sector and Commercial 219.7 195.8 12.2 Total including acquisitions 402.9 378.1 6.6 Revenue growth Overall percentage: Against a target of 7 per cent per annum the Domestic 45.5% 48.2% Group has achieved a CAGR of 5.9 per cent since Public Sector and Commercial 54.5% 51.8% 1 January 2006.
Like for like sales in the Domestic market were slightly Earnings per share growth ahead of last year with sales prices and mix up 4 per Against a target of RPI 6 per cent per annum on cent and volumes down 3.5 per cent.
a CAGR basis which for the period since 1 January 2006 equates to 10.2 per cent the Group The Public Sector and Commercial market now has achieved a CAGR of 7.1 per cent.
comprises approximately 55 per cent of the Group ROCE is defined as EBITA Shareholders funds revenue.
Like for like revenue showed an increase of plus Net Debt.
ROCE for 2007 was 16.6 per cent 7 per cent in the year with natural stone products which is compared with the long term target of showing another year of double digit growth.
As explained earlier the initial prices and mix were 4 per cent ahead with volumes impact of the Groups investment in projects that up 3 per cent.
are designed to generate future growth is causing a short term reduction in ROCE.
The ROCE The acquisitions made in the last few years have been on the traditional core business is 20.3 per cent progressively integrated into the expanded market which exceeds the KPI target.
offer and this will continue in 2008.
An additional financial KPI relates to cash flow targets and the Groups cash generation performance is described on page 19.
16 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 An interim dividend of 4.55 pence 2006: 4.30 pence Segmental Reporting per share was paid on 5 December 2007.
A final During the year the Directors undertook a review of dividend of 9.30 pence 2006: 8.85 pence per share is the Groups continuing operations and its associated now being recommended for payment on 4 July business risks and for the year ended 31 December 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of 2007 consider that the continuing operations should business on 6 June 2008.
The ex-dividend date will be be reported as a single business segment.
This gives a total of 13.85 pence 2006: Directors consider that the continuing operations 13.15 pence per share for the year which represents represent one product offering with similar risks and an increase of 5.3 per cent over 2006. rewards and should be managed and reported as a single business segment in line with the Groups On an IFRS basis, which does not account for the final internal reporting framework.
dividend until it is approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the dividend for the year Net Financial Expenses ended 31 December 2007 is 13.40 pence 2006: 12.70 pence per share which represents an increase of 5.5 Net financial expenses were 6.7 million 2006: 6.1 per cent.
On an IFRS basis dividends are covered 1.6 million which is made up of external interest on times 2006: 1.6 times.
borrowings including debenture interest and IAS 19 notional interest.
The IAS 19 notional interest Balance Sheet comprises interest on obligations under the defined benefit Pension Scheme net of the expected return Net assets at 31 December 2007 were 200.6 million on Scheme assets.
The reduction in the IAS 19 2006: 184.5 million which represented 140.0 pence notional interest charge reflects the reduction in the 2006: 129.0 pence per share.
recognised liability for defined benefit obligations and increased returns arising from Company cash The evaluation of Marshalls portfolio of commercial contributions.
Interest cover remained healthy at 7.3 properties and mineral assets was completed by CB times 2006: 7.8 times.
Richard Ellis and Wardell Armstrong LLP during the year.
The property portfolio was valued, as at 31 Taxation December 2006, on an existing use basis for the commercial and mineral portfolio and on a market The tax charge for 2007 was 11.8 million 2006: 12.6 value basis for surplus assets.
These bases are in million which represented an effective rate of 28.2 accordance with the valuation methods per cent 2006: 30.3 per cent.
The reduction in the UK recommended by the Royal Institute of Chartered corporation tax rate to 28 per cent from April 2008 Surveyors.
The valuation of the property portfolio as has given rise to a reduced deferred tax charge in the at 31 December 2006 was approximately 40 million year which effectively accounts for the reduction in above the net book value of the equivalent assets.
A deferred taxation asset of 5.0 million 2006: 12.6 million has been established in Trade receivables have increased to 35.7 million relation to the net liability for defined benefit 2006: 28.6 million at the year end due to the obligations of 17.8 million 2006: 41.9 million.
impact of an increase in revenue in November and Deferred tax of 5.2 million in relation to the actuarial December 2007.
As previously explained, this gain arising on the defined benefit pension scheme followed a period of reduced sales in the summer in the year has been taken to the Consolidated months due to the impact of severe weather Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses.
conditions which caused inventory to remain higher at the year end by approximately 2.7 million.
Dividends Acquisitions have also added 0.9 million to The Groups dividend policy continues to be that inventory levels with the impact of inflation being dividends should move in line with medium term around 3.4 million.
The impact of the weather in this earnings growth.
period has also contributed to an increase in Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 17 Operating and Financial Review continued inventory to 82.9 million 2006: 68.3 million.
This The above table shows an analysis of net debt at 31 will be managed down over the next two years, December 2007.
Net debt has increased from 54.6 although approximately 7.7 million of the increase million to 96.9 million during the year due, in part, to was due to commercially beneficial forward the temporary increase in working capital explained purchasing of imported natural stone to mitigate earlier but, mainly to the purchase of Treasury Shares cost increases in transportation.
and the continued investment by the Group in strategic business initiatives, both capital and The liability for defined benefit pension obligations revenue, to drive future growth.
Gearing at the year decreased from 41.9 million at 31 December 2006 to end increased from 29.6 per cent to 48.3 per cent 17.8 million at 31 December 2007.
This reduction with interest covered strongly at 7.3 times 2006: 7.8 was partly due to the impact of further contributions times.
by the Group to the Pension Scheme and an increase in the AA corporate bond rate from 5.1 per cent to 5.8 Additional bank facilities were agreed with the per cent.
The change in discount rate, together with a Groups principal bankers in September 2007 and strengthening of the mortality rate and other total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2007 changes to the assumptions, has resulted in an amounted to 136.7 million 2006: 100.0 million of actuarial gain of 12.6 million net of deferred which 60.2 million 2006: 67.7 million remained taxation 2006: 7.3 million and this has been unutilised.
The Groups peak seasonal working capital recorded in the Consolidated Statement of requirements run from 1 February until 31 July and Recognised Income and Expenses.
The liability of an additional working capital facility of 20.0 million 17.8 million is made up of 194.8 million in respect is available between these dates.
Of the total bank of the present value of funded obligations net of facilities of 136.7 million, 41.7 million are in respect 177.0 million for the fair value of plan assets.
The of committed three and five year loan facilities, 50 deficit has been determined by the Scheme Actuary million are uncommitted facilities with an option to using prudent assumptions in line with current convert into committed three and five year facilities market levels.
and the remaining 45 million is uncommitted and repayable on demand.
The bank facilities are In the second half of the year the Group made unsecured other than for inter company cross payments totalling 6.9 million to acquire 2,425,000 guarantees between the Groups subsidiary Treasury Shares.
The shares may also be used to undertakings.
satisfy awards under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan.
This acquisition of Treasury Shares increased the The 11.375 per cent 20.0 million debenture stock is Groups gearing ratio by approximately 5 per cent.
secured by a first floating charge on the assets of Marshalls Group plc and certain subsidiary Analysis of Net Debt undertakings and is repayable at par on 30 June Analysis of net debt 2007 2006 2014, or at the Companys option before then, at a m m price related to the gross redemption yield of a Bank 76.5 32.3 specific category of Government Treasury Stock.
11.375% Debenture Stock 20.0 20.0 B shares - 2.1 On 30 June 2007 the Group redeemed all the Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.2 remaining B shares that were issued as part of the Net debt 96.9 54.6 return of 75 million to shareholders in 2004.
The net cash outflow was 2.4 million.
Net assets 200.6 184.5 Gearing 48.3% 29.6% 18 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Charcoal Keyblok, John Pounds Medical Centre, Portsmouth Operational cash generation for the year ended 31 Cash generation December 2007, after cash contributions to the The Group continues to be cash generative.
In the Pension Scheme, was 27.7 million 2006: 38.8 year ended 31 December 2007 the cash inflow from million.
Interest and corporation tax payments in the operations was 43.7 million 2006: 54.0 million.
year were 16.0 million 2006: 15.2 million and This cash generation has been utilised as follows: there was a net outflow from working capital of 18.5 million 2006: 1.0 million outflow.
This is due to the Analysis of cash utilisation 2007 2006 increases in trade receivables and inventory, in m m particular the beneficial forward purchases of Cash generated from the operations 43.7 54.0 imported natural stone, at the year end referred to Interest and taxation 16.0 15.2 earlier.
Operational cash generation 27.7 38.8 Organic investment capital expenditure 14.7 20.0 Total gross expenditure on capital expenditure and Strategic growth initiatives capital expenditure 14.1 4.0 acquisitions in the year was 44.5 million 2006: 28.6 Acquisitions 12.8 4.1 million, with acquisitions comprising 12.8 million Other financial items 6.9 0.4 and strategic capital growth initiatives 14.1 million, Cash returned to shareholders 21.5 19.0 which is a significant increase compared with the Movement in net debt 42.3 7.9 prior year.
This includes capital to open up a new sand Cash returned to shareholders as a percentage and gravel quarry near Manchester and the building of operational cash generation 77.6% 49.0% of an aggregates washing plant and walling plant in West Yorkshire.
The remaining 17.6 million of organic capital investment represents the replacement of existing assets and investment in business improvements and developments including robotics and new process technology.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 19 Operating and Financial Review continued Since the year end the Group has realised gross distribution facilities, to generate productivity proceeds of approximately 10 million before costs improvements and to set up a national network of from the sale of surplus properties.
The proceeds are Display Centres and also to invest in future growth in excess of book value of the related assets which opportunities.
The medium term plan is to allocate have been reclassified as assets held for sale in the 20 million for replacement and improvement Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2007. capital investment each year of which half will relate to the replacement of existing assets and half will be The Groups medium term plan is to allocate 40 in relation to business improvement projects.
million to the combined value of organic growth capital investment and bolt-on acquisitions.
It is The Group has also invested 25.6 million in expected that around half of this will be funded by acquisitions as part of the strategy of capitalising on cash generated through operations and half will be Marshalls brand and unique access to national funded by debt or cash from surplus properties.
The medium term plan is to Group will retain considerable flexibility to make seek suitable acquisition candidates and to allocate larger acquisitions should opportunities arise.
approximately 20 million per year for bolt-on acquisitions or growth orientated capital projects.
Ordinary dividend payments in the year were 19.1 This will continue to leave the Group with sufficient million 2006: 18.2 million and 2.4 million has been flexibility to make larger acquisitions if such paid to redeem the final balance of B shares.
This greater emphasis on utilisation of cash over the last three years is investing in strategic growth opportunities will illustrated by the following summary.
deliver further shareholder value in the future.
The Groups strategic plans, balance sheet, capital and Analysis of cash utilisation, 2005-2007 funding arrangements are carefully structured to m enable this to be achieved.
Operational cash generation 124.0 Capital expenditure 73.5 As explained earlier, the Groups cash generation Acquisitions 25.6 performance against detailed cash flow targets is one Sale of Clay business 65.0 of the main KPIs and in 2007 the targets that were set Cash returned to shareholders 54.8 by the Board were achieved.
The Boards objective in Pension contributions 17.0 the medium term is to achieve and maintain an Other financial items 6.8 efficient balance sheet.
Movement in net debt 11.3 Financing and Risk Management 2004 2007 The Groups Risk Committee determines the policies m m and procedures that are put in place to mitigate Net debt 108.2 96.9 exposure to risk.
A formal rolling process exists to Capital employed 131.5 200.6 identify, assess and analyse risks and those of a more Gearing 82.3% 48.3% material nature are included in the Group Risk Register.
The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all The above chart provides a medium term three year forms of strategic and financial risk both external and analysis of the cash generation capacity of the Group internal.
External risks include political and economic and how cash generated has been invested to grow conditions, the effect of legislation or other the business and also to show the cash returned to regulatory actions, the actions of competitors, foreign shareholders.
Cash generated from operating exchange, raw material prices and pension funding.
The Group has invested Internal risks include investment in new products, 73.5 million back into the business to provide new business strategies and acquisitions.
efficient, industry leading manufacturing and 20 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Clarence Dock, Leeds Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 21 Operating and Financial Review continued financial risks in relation to the Pension Scheme, Strategic Risks principally the volatility of the discount AA Like most businesses in the UK the Group is corporate bond rate, any downturn in the susceptible to any economic downturn which performance of equities and increases in the could affect customer spending.
weakness in the UK economy, together with general uncertainty in the financial markets, could Marshalls continues to make strategic business depress consumer spending and private sector acquisitions that might have an impact on the construction activity.
In addition, slow delivery of performance and risk profile of the Group.
These planned Government investment could depress risks are mitigated by extensive due diligence and construction activity in the Public Sector and where practicable, by representations and Commercial market.
Long periods of adverse indemnities from the vendors.
weather conditions could also have a short term impact on construction activity.
Our aim is to Financial Risks ensure an excellent understanding of market conditions by constant communication with The main risks arising from the Groups financial customers, installers and domestic consumers, instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and together with significant investment in market foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and research and active membership of the CPA.
As agrees policies for managing each of these risks explained previously, the balance of revenue and these are summarised in Note 17 on pages 80 between the consumer driven Domestic market to 83 of the Financial Statements.
These policies and the Public Sector and Commercial market have remained unchanged since 2006.
It is the also helps mitigate the potential impact of these Groups policy, and has been throughout the risks.
period under review, that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
A failure to compete with competitors on price, product range, quality and service could have an The Group manages its medium term bank debt adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
All to ensure continuity of funding and the policy is these areas are monitored on a constant basis and to arrange funding ahead of requirements and to the Customer Service Index remains one of the maintain sufficient un-drawn committed bank Boards key strategic KPIs.
The Group continues to facilities.
invest in strategies that enhance the Marshalls brand.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency contract derivative transactions of relatively small Any significant increases in raw material and value.
The purpose of such transactions is to utility prices could adversely affect the Groups manage the currency risks arising from the performance.
Diversity of operations reduces the Groups operations.
The Group manages its risk on any single item of supply and our insurance risk by continuous review and by purchasing policies seek to take into account and maintaining a balance between capped self mitigate such risks, where possible.
insurance and third party cover against major catastrophes.
The defined benefit section of the Pension Scheme was closed to future service accrual on 1 July 2006 and the introduction of a new defined contribution section to the Pension Scheme has allowed the Group to manage risk better and reduce volatility in the future.
Nevertheless the Group continues to be subject to various 22 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 The Domestic market is more difficult to predict Group Outlook against the current backdrop of lower consumer The outlook for the Public Sector and Commercial confidence, tougher loan conditions and a general market, which now represents approximately 55 housing market that has begun to slow.
The CPA is per cent of the Groups revenue, is positive.
We forecasting a flat market in Private Housing Repair, have good visibility of demand and lead Maintenance and Improvement Expenditure for indicators continue to be positive.
Our Domestic installers average order forecasts that the Public Sector and Commercial books from the latest survey at the end of Other New Work market will grow by 4.6 per cent February 2008 are 8.4 weeks, a normal level for in 2008 and a further 4.2 per cent in 2009.
With our ongoing investment in effective implementation of the investment Display Centres we remain well positioned.
plans outlined in the Governments 2007 Comprehensive Spending Review will be central We are continuing with our development plans to this sustained growth over the next three years and will maintain a strong emphasis on cash and from 2009 onwards it is anticipated that management.
The strength of our brand, our building for the 2012 Olympics will also gather efficient manufacturing and sourcing, and our momentum.
comprehensive distribution network give us confidence for the future.
Redbrick Mill Display Centre, Batley M Marshalls plc Annual Repor arshalls plc Annual Report 2006 t 2007 23 23
