36 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Directors statement on corporate governance Statement of appliance of the principles in the Combined Code The full Board met on eight occasions and these meetings were attended by all directors, except Mr P J Hill who was excused from one meeting The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out together with meetings of the Audit and Nominations Committees, which in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as issued were held on the same date.
in July 2003 by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported in the Statement of Compliance on page 39.
Further explanation of how The Chairman also talks with and holds meetings on an informal basis the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with the other non executive directors without the executives present.
with Directors remuneration, in the Remuneration Report on page 40.
The Chairmans performance was appraised by the non executive directors in January 2007.
There were no circumstances arising during the year where it was necessary A: Directors to record unresolved concerns in the Boards minutes.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers insurance.
1 The Board The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group and 2 Chairman and Chief Executive is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its leadership.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place and is a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and agreed reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is responsible for in writing by the Board.
Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on setting the Groups values and standards and for ensuring its obligations appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004. to shareholders, employees and others are met.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring its The non executive directors play a full part by constructively challenging effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to all and contributing to the development of strategy.
The performance of directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, management is monitored, as is the integrity of financial information principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is undertaken and effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems.
The Chairman facilitates the contribution of non The non executive directors are responsible for determining appropriate executive directors and the relationship between them and the levels of remuneration for the executive directors and have an important executive directors.
role in the appointment of new directors.
The Board meets regularly and receives reports from the Chief Executive 3 Board balance and independence on the Groups activities, from the Group Finance Director on financial The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and non executive performance and treasury matters and from the Group Corporate Affairs directors, is of a size and includes skills and experience appropriate for the Director on legal and compliance issues.
Strategic issues and other items requirements of the business.
including such matters as capital structure, financial reporting and controls are considered in line with a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of Details of the non executive directors considered to be independent are the Board.
If a decision is not reserved for the Board then authority lies, in provided above.
For the year, in addition to the Chairman, there have been accordance with an authorisation policy, with one of the Finance Committee three executive directors, two independent non executive directors and one of the Board, the Chief Executive, an executive director or the managing non executive director, Sir Alan Cox, who is not considered to be independent directors of the individual business units.
under the Combined Code by virtue of his having been appointed for longer than nine years.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is no longer regarded as independent, The Chairman is Sir Colin Terry, the Chief Executive is Mr T Twigger and the the Board considers that his extensive experience in industry and other senior independent non executive director is Mr D A Robins.
The independent organisations make him a valuable member of the Board.
Following the non executive directors are considered by the Board to be Mr P J Hill, appointment of Mr D M Williams on 13 December 2006, the Board has three Mr D A Robins and Mr D M Williams.
independent non executive directors in addition to the three executive directors.
Committee membership, number of formal meetings held during 2006 and The senior independent non executive director is Mr D A Robins who attendance is shown in the following table: assumed the role on 1 March 2007.
Sir Alan Cox, who remains a non executive No.
of meetings meetings director, agreed to step down from the role on 1 March 2007 on the basis that during year attended he is not judged to be independent.
The senior independent non executive Audit director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact Sir Alan Cox Chairman 3 3 through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact Mr P J Hill 3 2 is inappropriate.
Mr D A Robins 3 3 4 Appointments to the Board Remuneration Mr D A Robins Chairman 5 5 The Nominations Committee considers any new appointments to the Sir Alan Cox 5 5 Board but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint is taken Mr P J Hill 5 5 by the Board as a whole.
Until December 2006 the Committee consisted of five members, two of whom are considered by the Combined Code to be Nominations independent.
Since the appointment of Mr D M Williams on 13 December Sir Colin Terry Chairman 2 2 2006 there have been six members, three of whom are considered to be Sir Alan Cox 2 2 independent.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman, Sir Colin Terry.
Mr P J Hill 2 1 The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee Mr D A Robins 2 2 which are available on the Companys website.
Mr T Twigger 2 2 37 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The terms and conditions of appointment of non executive directors are B: Directors remuneration available for inspection.
The letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment required and on appointment their other significant 1 The level and make-up of remuneration commitments were disclosed along with the time involved.
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee which is responsible No executive director has a non executive directorship or chairmanship for approving remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and of a FTSE 100 company.
motivate executive directors of the required quality.
A significant portion of an individual directors remuneration is performance related through The Nominations Committee met during the year to discuss the appointment a combination of cash bonus and share schemes in order to align their of an additional independent non executive director and a new company interests with those of the shareholders and to incentivise them.
The Committee subsequently recommended the appointment to the Board of Mr D M Williams as an independent non executive director Executive share options when granted are only at market value.
and the appointment of Mr M L Young as Company Secretary.
The Committee follows schedule A of the Combined Code.
The level of fees for non executive directors is set to reflect the time 5 Information and professional development commitment and responsibilities of the role after consulting independent The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form surveys of such fees.
Non executive directors are not entitled to receive and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
On joining the Board new directors receive an appropriate induction None of the executive directors serves as a non executive director for to the business.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new another company.
non executive directors should they wish to do so.
The Remuneration Committee has appointed Towers Perrin to advise on Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their remuneration packages for executive directors.
Towers Perrin conducted knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to senior a benchmarking exercise of the value of the total remuneration received by management, receiving reports on the business and visits to the Groups executive directors during late 2004 and updated their advice in December operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors for developing 2006.
The Committee considered this advice when reviewing salaries to take and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
Towers Perrin has no other known connection with the Company.
The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to offer executive directors judge it necessary.
Committees are provided with sufficient resources to contracts requiring one years notice from the Company.
Should the Company undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the advice and services terminate the contracts in breach of the contract terms then damages would of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that be due which are equivalent to remuneration for the unexpired period of Board procedures are complied with and that there is a good information flow notice less 5%.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
2 Procedure Until December 2006 the Remuneration Committee consisted of three 6 Performance evaluation members, two of whom were considered by the Combined Code to be In January 2007 the Board conducted a self-evaluation assessment.
Since the appointment of Mr D M Williams on 13 December The Chairman led a discussion to consider the Boards behaviours and 2006 there have been four members, three of whom are considered to be processes and the Board reviewed some high level objectives and its independent.
The Board has approved written terms of reference for the performance against these.
The Board was satisfied with its effectiveness.
Committee which are available on the Companys website.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have also considered their own The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration performance during the year.
The performance of individual directors has packages, including pension arrangements, for all executive directors and been considered by the Chairman and Chief Executive in discussion with senior management and for agreeing the fees for the Chairman.
All new other non executive directors.
The non executive directors have considered long-term share schemes are submitted to shareholders for approval.
the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting the fees of the non executive directors within the limits set in the Articles of Association.
7 Re-election No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Non executive directors are appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 relating to the removal of a director.
In compliance with the Combined Code requirements Sir Alan Cox will be subject to annual re-election in 2007 and each subsequent year.
Biographical and other relevant information on directors submitted for election or re-election will be provided in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
38 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Directors statement on corporate governance continued 3 There is a Group Procedures Manual, the purpose of which is to C: Accountability and audit establish appropriate authority levels throughout the Group to cover certain items of expenditure, financial commitments and other matters, 1 Financial reporting which are regarded as essential in order to ensure that overall financial These financial statements contain an explanation of the directors control is maintained throughout the Group.
The financial procedures responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by the were reviewed and updated during 2006. auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also report that 4 There is a comprehensive insurance programme.
the business is a going concern.
5 There are programmes for business continuity, health and safety, 2 Internal control environmental, export compliance and ethics.
The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard 6 There is an on-going programme of assurance activities including shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
The system is designed internal audit, external audit, external tax compliance review, to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business environmental audits, health and safety audits, property risk reviews objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against material and export regulation compliance reviews.
The Board confirms full implementation of the The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under review guidance issued by Turnbull.
and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
In order that the Board can review the effectiveness of the system of internal The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the control, the following procedures are in place: Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 90% of underlying 1 The Board receives regular reports at Board Meetings on the state of operating profit in 2006. the business from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and regularly receives a report on legal and compliance activities from 3 Audit Committee and auditors the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
The Board has appointed an Audit Committee which until December 2006 2 The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness consisted of three members, two of whom were considered by the Combined of the internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings Code to be independent.
Since the appointment of Mr D M Williams on it receives reports from the external auditors and the internal audit 13 December 2006 there have been four members, three of whom are department.
Internal audit visits to operating units are planned using considered to be independent.
The Chairman of the Committee is non a risk model.
executive director Sir Alan Cox, who is not considered to be independent under the Combined Code by virtue of his having been appointed for longer 3 The Board has an Ethics and Export Compliance Committee which than nine years.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is no longer regarded as independent, quarterly reviews these areas of compliance.
the Board considers that through his extensive experience in industry and 4 Annually a review of the risk environment and the Groups key risks other organisations Sir Alan makes a valuable contribution as Chairman is presented to the Board for their consideration.
Sir Alan will however relinquish his role as Chairman of the Committee at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2007 5 Every month, each business submits detailed operating and financial and it is intended that Mr D M Williams be appointed Chairman on that date.
reports covering all aspects of their performance.
These are reviewed and, subject to materiality, issues are communicated to the Management The Board is satisfied that amongst the Committees members there is Board and the Board.
recent and relevant financial experience.
6 On an annual basis, the managing director of each business provides The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee which written confirmation that the business for which he is responsible has are available on the Companys website.
During 2006 the Committee met on been in compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
The external auditors attended these meetings to discuss the scope and the final results of the 2005 audit in detail which included the 7 Annually, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage in place main risks facing the Group, the strategy for the 2006 audit, the hard close and the risks which remain uninsured.
results of the 2006 audit along with any other items which the auditors or The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the non executive directors wished to discuss.
The Audit Committee also faced by the Group is as follows: reviewed the internal control environment of the Group and received reports from internal audit as described above.
1 Following a series of risk workshops facilitated by risk professionals at business, divisional and Group level to identify and analyse the key risks The Company places great importance on the independence of its faced by the Group, the Board reviewed the list of those risks and the auditors and, together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity mitigation plan.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the individual is not compromised.
operating businesses, by divisional management and then, by exception, The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the by the Management Board.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
2 There is a regular review of the performance of each business undertaken by the executive directors and senior Group management.
39 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees to be paid to external Statement of compliance with the provisions of the auditors in respect of their services as auditors.
The Companys general Combined Code policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 the audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 undertake those services which they are required to, and most suited Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services to, perform: Authority with the following exceptions: taxation: the Companys principal tax advisor is Deloitte & Touche LLP: consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external auditors 1 A.
3.2 At least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, does not for general consulting work where this could impair their independence comprise independent non executive directors.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is or objectivity: no longer regarded as independent owing to his appointment as a the Audit Committee is required to approve any fees to the external non executive director for more than nine years, the Board considers auditors in excess of 0.1 million.
that his extensive experience in industry and other organisations make him a valuable member of the Board.
An Ethics Line exists which enables employees to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
4.1 A majority of the members of the Nominations Committee These arrangements allow for proportionate and independent investigation were not independent non executive directors.
Until December 2006, and for appropriate follow-up action.
two out of five members were independent non executive directors.
Following the appointment of Mr D M Williams on 13 December this The Committee reviews at each meeting the activities of the internal audit became three out of six.
function and regularly reviews its effectiveness.
2.1 Sir Alan Cox is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
However, the Committee also has three independent non executive directors as members.
D: Relations with shareholders 4 C. 3.1 Sir Alan Cox is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Sir Alan Cox 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders is not considered to be independent by virtue of his having been appointed for longer than nine years.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is no longer The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
regarded as being independent, the Board considers that due to his Effective communication with fund managers, institutional investors and extensive experience gained as a former member of the Financial analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief Executive and Reporting Council, and in industry and commerce, Sir Alan makes Group Finance Director.
This encompasses such issues as strategy, a valuable contribution as Chairman of the Committee.
Sir Alan will performance and policy.
however, relinquish his role as Chairman of the Committee at the The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2007 and it is The Chairman and other non executive directors are available to attend intended that Mr D M Williams be appointed Chairman on that date.
meetings with shareholders if they are requested to do so.
In addition to the Chief Executives regular reports, directors may develop an understanding Going concern of the views of major shareholders from presentations by the Companys After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time brokers to the whole Board and attendance at analysts briefings as required.
of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an occasion for This statement also constitutes part of the Financial Review on pages 23 communication with its shareholders.
All proxy votes are counted by the and 24.
Companys Registrars and the level of voting on each resolution is made available at the end of the meeting and on the Companys website.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on substantially separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the report and accounts.
The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to questions and it is usual for all other directors to attend.
It is the intention of the Board that notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
