CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Board believes the Directors possess diverse business The Company supports the principles of corporate governance experience in spheres complementary to the activities of Melrose contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which PLC, as well as other sectors.
Biographies of the Directors are is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These biographies identify other appointments held by the Directors.
None of the executive Directors The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good receive any income from their appointment as non-executive governance.
The Company has complied with the majority of the Director elsewhere.
provisions of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
The statements below describe how the In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, Company has applied the principles identified in the Combined consideration has been given to the independence of all the nonCode.
Progress on areas of non-compliance from 2005 have been executive Directors.
The Board considers all the non-executive made where considered appropriate by the Board, as noted below.
THE BOARD Mr Perry Crosthwaite held the position of Director at Investec The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad-hoc Investment Banking, the Companys sponsor, until his retirement in basis as required by time critical business needs.
The Board believes that, notwithstanding the provisions of responsible to shareholders for the effective and proper paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code independence of nonmanagement and control of the Company and has a formal executive Directors, Mr Crosthwaites previous position at Investec schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
Its primary roles are does not affect his independence as a non-executive Director of the to determine and review Company strategy and policy, consider Company as he had no direct involvement in advising the Company acquisitions and disposals, assess requests for major capital at any point during his time at Investec.
The Board is therefore of expenditure and give consideration to all other significant financial the opinion that Mr Crosthwaite is an independent non-executive matters.
This process is undertaken following discussions in Director for the purposes of the Combined Code.
conjunction with senior executive management who in turn are responsible for day to day conduct of the Groups operations and Mr Miles Templeman holds 1,478 Convertible B Shares, which he for reporting to the Board on the progress being made in meeting purchased on 13 October 2003 at the time when the Company the objectives.
There were four scheduled Board meetings held was admitted to the Alternative Investment Market.
The Board during the year and the attendance of each of the Directors is believes that, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A.
3.1 of shown on page 30. the Combined Code, Mr Templemans holding of Convertible B Shares does not affect his independence as a non-executive As at 31 December 2006, the Board comprised seven members Director of the Company.
being the executive Chairman, Mr Christopher Miller, three other executive Directors and three non-executive Directors.
The four The implementation of a formal process of evaluating the executive Directors, Mr Christopher Miller, Chairman, Mr David performance of the Board and standing committees has begun.
Roper, Chief Executive Officer, Mr Simon Peckham, Chief Operating The Chairman has held meetings with the Directors, including the Officer and Mr Geoffrey Martin, Group Finance Director, served senior independent non-executive Director, Mr Miles Templeman, throughout the year.
to discuss the performance of the executive Directors and the Board as a whole.
Two non-executive Directors, Mr Miles Templeman and Mr Perry Crosthwaite, served throughout the year.
A third nonIn accordance with the Companys articles of association, one third executive Director, Mr John Grant, was appointed on 1 August or the number nearest to but not less than one third of all 2006.
Mr Grant brings to the Board extensive industrial experience, Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for rehaving spent his career within the automotive industry and in other election at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
It is the engineering businesses.
Mr Templemans valuable contribution to policy of the Board that non-executive Directors are appointed for the work of the Board is recognised and his appointment was an initial term of three years, following which their appointment will renewed for a further three year period.
The terms and conditions be reviewed.
of the non-executive Directors appointments and the executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the On appointment, all Directors are advised that they have access to Companys registered office.
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
28 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 NOMINATION COMMITTEE A comprehensive pack of briefing papers and an agenda is provided The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Christopher for each Director in advance of each scheduled meeting.
The Miller and the three independent non-executive Directors.
Mr Miles Directors are able to seek further clarification and information on Templeman is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
any matter from any other Director or employee of the Group whenever necessary.
Decisions are taken by the Board in The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and Board, particularly in relation to the balance of skills, experience and advice from external consultants and executive management.
knowledge and seeks to ensure that both executive and nonexecutive Directors have the necessary skills and attributes for the CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE future success of the Company.
The Committee reviews succession The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman of the Board and plans for the Directors and makes recommendations to the Board Chief Executive of the Company should be split.
on membership of the Board and of its Committees.
The Committee retains external search consultants as appropriate.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year and The Board considers that the respective roles and responsibilities are during 2006 the Committee met twice.
clearly understood by both individuals and by the Board as a whole.
AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Audit Committee comprises the three independent nonIn accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board executive Directors.
Mr Miles Templeman is the Chairman of the has three standing committees: the Audit, Nomination and the Audit Committee.
Each member of the Committee brings relevant Remuneration Committee, each of which comprise three financial experience from senior executive and non-executive independent non-executive Directors.
On his appointment to the positions as described in their biographies on page 23.
Board on 1 August 2006, Mr John Grant was also appointed to all three standing Committees, at which time Mr Christopher Miller The Committee invites the Group Finance Director and senior ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as Committees.
The duties of the Committees are set out in formal appropriate to the business being considered.
In addition, the terms of reference.
These are available from the Company Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend Secretary.
Membership of the Committees is shown below.
The meetings where this is considered appropriate.
Company Secretary acts as Secretary of each of the Committees.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three risk management procedures and compliance controls as well as independent non-executive Directors: Mr Miles Templeman, the integrity of the Companys financial statements.
Mr Perry Crosthwaite and Mr John Grant.
Mr Perry Crosthwaite chairs the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit and for The function of the Committee is to establish and review the terms overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the Auditors.
The and conditions of employment of the executive Directors, and to Committee recommends the appointment and re-appointment of make recommendations to the Board on the overall framework and the Companys external Auditors and considers the scope of their broad policy for the remuneration of the Companys Directors and audit work and the cost effectiveness of their work.
The Committee other senior executives within the Group.
is aware of the audit and non-audit services which have been provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP during 2006.
A significant The Committee met four times during the year.
The attendance proportion of the non-audit services related to non-recurring work in of its members is shown in the table on page 30.
The report to connection with the proposed sale of the Aerospace OEM division.
shareholders on how Directors are remunerated, together with details of individual Directors remuneration is shown on pages 32 to 35.
MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Deloitte & Touche LLP also advised on tax matters, which was The Board is ultimately responsible for the system of internal considered to be appropriate, given their depth of knowledge of control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and the affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The Committee is processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather satisfied that, notwithstanding this work, Deloitte & Touche LLP have than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and retained objectivity and independence during the year.
cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the The Chairman of the Committee will attend the Companys Annual internal control practices and procedures to the Audit Committee.
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised concerning the Committees activities.
The Audit Committee ensures the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control processes implemented by senior management.
The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times This includes discussions with senior management of the Company.
a year and during 2006 the Committee met three times.
These findings are in turn discussed by the full Board.
The Board is The attendance of its members and the Group Finance Director committed to satisfying the internal control guidance for Directors is shown in the table below.
set out in the ICAEW Turnbull Report.
Further, the Board is aware of the major risks facing the Company and the steps taken by the ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Company where possible to mitigate such risks.
The table below shows the attendance of each of the Directors at the scheduled meetings of the Board and its standing Key risks Committees held during the year.
Briefing papers and a meeting The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies in agenda is provided for each Director in advance of each meeting.
relation to the use of financial instruments are described in the Decisions are taken by the Board, in conjunction, where Finance Directors review on pages 16 to 21.
Other key risks which appropriate, with the recommendations of its Committees and could adversely affect the Group are described in the Chief advice from external advisers and executive management.
In Executives review and Business review on pages 6 to 15. addition, during those months when a Board meeting is not scheduled, a pack of management reports, including financial Managing and controlling risks analysis is sent to each of the Directors.
A summary of the structures and processes in place to identify and manage risks across the Group are set out below.
Divisional Board Audit Remuneration Nomination executives, plant managers and financial controllers are responsible 1 Number of meetings 43 4 2 for managing the business risks within their business.
There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks faced by Christopher Miller 41 2 2 the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings and business David Roper 4 reviews with the Groups senior management.
The risk process is Simon Peckham 4 regularly reviewed by the Board.
Geoffrey Martin 43 Miles Templeman 43 4 2 The Group has policies which address a number of key business Perry Crosthwaite 43 4 2 2 risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety and John Grant 22 2 1 environmental.
The policies are made available to relevant 1 In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by employees through policy manuals and also via employee a quorum of directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business 2 briefings on specific topics as appropriate.
Senior management Mr Grant was appointed to the Board and standing committees on 1 August 2006 assume responsibility for managing risk in the businesses.
Where appropriate, external advisers are appointed in order to support INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT this process.
Philosophy and policy The objective of the Directors and senior management is to safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of the Group.
Achievement of this objective requires the development of policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure the Groups resources are managed properly and any risks are identified.
30 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Accountability and audit Institutional shareholders will be given the opportunity upon The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the request to meet Mr John Grant, the new non-executive Director.
consolidated financial statements is set out on page 36.
The views of key analysts and shareholders are communicated back to the Board directly by individual Directors and via the Companys Going concern broker, ensuring all members of the Board develop an On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, understanding of the views of major shareholders.
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Corporate information is also available on the Companys website, foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going www.
net, which was updated during 2006. concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Internal financial controls The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the Annual The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and General Meeting and the attendance of all Directors is required.
reporting of financial performance and assessing the efficiency of the Groups systems of internal controls.
A detailed budget is By order of the Board prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecast process and regular business review GARRY BARNES meetings are also held involving senior management, at which SECRETARY the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these 7 March 2007 reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by the Board at each meeting.
The Audit Committee has considered whether there is a requirement for an internal audit function and based on the Groups strong financial controls and management, the Committee is satisfied that an internal audit function is not presently required.
Instead, the audit of internal financial controls forms part of the responsibilities of the Groups finance function.
This matter will be kept under regular review.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system on internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2006.
COMMUNICATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Principally via the executive Directors, the Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its institutional shareholders through regular meetings and presentations following announcements of annual and interim results.
The senior independent non-executive Director, Mr Miles Templeman, is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
