MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and restandards of corporate governance and has made significant election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles progress in applying the main and supporting principles of of Association, whereby one third of the Directors retire by corporate governance as recommended in Section 1 of the rotation each year.
All Directors are subject to election by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the 2003 FRC shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following Code, for the year ended 31 December 2006. their appointment.
All Directors are subject to re-election every three years in accordance with the 2003 FRC Code.
Compliance with the 2003 FRC Code Sir Adrian Montague, Charles-Henri Dumon and Stephen The Directors consider that the Company has complied Box will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 As a result of their annual performance evaluation, the FRC Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, Board considers that their individual performances continue except as stated below: to be effective with each director demonstrating sufficient commitment to their role.
The Board is therefore pleased to Board balance code provision A3.2 support their re-election at the forthcoming Annual General The number of independent Non-Executive Directors did not Meeting.
equal that of the executives during the whole year under review.
In particular, the Board reviewed the positions of one of its Prior to the departure of Terry Benson on 6 April 2006, the members in the context of the guidance in the 2003 FRC number of Executive Directors on the main Board exceeded Combined Code and determined that, despite the length of that of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, the tenure on the Board in the case of Stephen Box, he remains Board considers that the collective know-how and experience independent.
He continues to contribute effectively and of the independent Non-Executive Directors over this period constructively to Board debate, to challenge and question provided a balanced mix of skills which matched the needs of management objectively and robustly, and at all times to the business and was sufficient to ensure proper governance have the best interests of the Group in mind.
The Board of the Group which consists of an organically grown, single therefore concluded that there was no evidence to suggest business, producing clear, transparent results.
Since Terry that length of tenure was having an adverse impact on his Bensons resignation and the appointment of Steve Ingham as independence and considers that, taking account of these Chief Executive, the composition of the Board now complies issues together with the other relevant factors contained in the with provision A3.2 of the Combined Code.
Code, all Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman Meetings with shareholders code provision D1.1 are independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Senior Independent Director did not meet directly All Directors have access to the advice and services of the with shareholders.
However, other members of the Board Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that have met face-to-face with shareholders during the year Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are and the issues discussed are shared collectively with all observed.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to Board members.
Additional understanding of shareholders obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the opinions is also gained from monthly brokers reports.
a result of this information and extensive feedback from The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a formal shareholder meetings, the Senior Independent Director and schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates specific the other Non-Executive Directors believe they are aware of responsibilities to Committees.
During the meetings, the shareholders views.
Board formally considers how and to whom matters covered at each meeting should be communicated and actioned The Board and its operation beyond the Board.
Decisions concerning matters of a more The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body routine nature are dealt with by management below Board responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies level.
The structure of the Group facilitates the day to day and objectives, and the management of the Groups running of the business and enables efficient and effective resources.
It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman communication of issues to the Board when required.
and Chief Executive are separate.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also met during The main Board currently comprises the Chairman, who has the year without the Executive Directors being present.
no operational responsibilities, three Executive Directors and Each of the Committees has formal written terms of reference three independent Non-Executive Directors.
3 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 The terms of reference for each Committee are available for the external auditors to undertake: on request and can be found on the Groups website.
Their selection, design or implementation of key financial composition and the manner in which they discharge their systems: responsibilities are described below.
maintaining or preparing the accounting books and records or the preparation of financial accounts or Audit Committee other key financial data: The Audit Committee comprises the independent Nonprovision of outsource financial systems: Executive Directors and is chaired by Stephen Box.
Their provision of outsource operational management relevant qualifications and experience are shown in their functions: biographies on the Board of Directors page 28 and 29. recruitment of senior finance or other executives: The Committee met four times in 2006 to fulfil its duties secondment of senior finance or other executives: and included attendance by the external auditors where required.
The Committee also met with the external auditors provision of internal audit services: during the year without the presence of management.
valuation services or fairness opinions: and In 2006 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities any services specifically prohibited to be provided as set out in the terms of reference which can be found by a listed companys external auditors under UK on our website.
Its principal tasks are to review the regulations.
Groups internal controls, review the scope of the external The following criteria also need to be met before audit, consider issues raised by the external auditors, the external auditors are contracted to provide such and review the half-yearly and annual accounts before services: they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular the firm has the necessary skills and experience to on accounting policies and compliance, and areas of undertake the work: management judgement and estimates.
there are no potential conflicts that may arise as a Objectivity and independence of external result of carrying out this activity: auditors the external audit firm is subject to the companys Deloitte & Touche LLP are employed to perform work in normal tendering processes: and addition to their statutory duties where it is felt that they in addition to the normal authorisation procedures are best placed to carry out the engagement as a result of and prior to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be their being the Groups auditors.
All other work is awarded given by the Group Finance Director and, if the fee on the basis of competitive tender.
exceeds a certain level, the Audit Committee.
The objectivity and independence of the external auditor c. enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is is safeguarded by: proposed that a former employee of the external auditors be employed by the Group: and a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that adequate policies and procedures exist within its firm d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with to ensure the firm and its staff are independent of applicable UK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit the Group by reason of family, finance, employment, partners.
investment and business relationships other than in the normal course of business : Remuneration Committee b. enforcing a policy concerning the provision of nonThe Remuneration Committee comprises the independent audit services by the auditor which governs the types Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Tim Miller.
of work: The Committee reviews the Groups policy on the Chairmans, i. from which the external auditor is excluded: Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and terms of employment, makes recommendations upon this ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged along with the specific level of remuneration to the Board, and without referral to the Audit Committee: and also approves the provision of policies for the incentivisation of iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required, which senior employees including share schemes.
The Committee includes all engagements over certain fee limits.
meets at least twice a year and is also attended by the The following areas are considered to be unacceptable Chief Executive, except when his own remuneration is 3 MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL under consideration.
The Remuneration Report includes external search.
As a result of this internal process, Steve information on the Directors service contracts.
The terms Ingham was selected and appointed as Chief Executive of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found on 6 April 2006. on our website.
Induction and training programme Nomination Committee On appointment to the Board, each Director discusses The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive with the Company Secretary the extent of training required Directors and is chaired by Sir Adrian Montague.
It is and a tailored induction programme to cover their individual responsible for making recommendations to the Board on requirements is then compiled.
Elements of the programme new appointments, as well as making recommendations typically consist of meeting senior management, site as to the composition of the Board generally, and the visits and attending internal conferences.
In addition, balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors information is provided on the Companys services, Group appointed to the Board.
The terms of reference of the structure, Board arrangements, financial information, Nomination Committee can be found on our website.
major competitors and major risks.
After an initial induction phase, updates are provided on a periodic basis.
Succession planning Performance evaluation One of the basic premises behind the strategic development of the Michael Page business is that growth The Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring is organic rather than through acquisitions of companies or effectiveness and evaluating its performance together with senior people.
In order to achieve this organic growth, we that of its Directors and Committees, conducted an internal require good people.
It is therefore one of the fundamental review comprising initially a questionnaire concerning all principles and a major part of the philosophy of the aspects of procedure and effectiveness.
Company that we train and develop our own people.
This Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chief approach creates opportunities for career progression and Executive met with the individual Executive Directors, helps us attract and retain high calibre individuals.
and the Chairman met with the individual Non-Executive Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, Directors, to discuss their views and to give feedback succession planning is inherently a key part of the process.
The results of the evaluation were We do not make promotions or move people within the reported to the Board and where areas of improvement business unless there is a clear successor for the vacant have been identified, actions have been agreed upon and position.
It is therefore one of the key responsibilities of all training will be provided where required.
levels of management, and not just the Board, to have a Stephen Box, as the Senior Independent Director, led a clear plan of development for their direct reports.
meeting of the Non-Executive Directors to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The meeting took into Board appointments account any comments made by the Executive Directors.
The Board follows formal and transparent procedures This evaluation is carried out annually.
The Nomination Committee identifies a shortlist of suitable candidates for NonAttendance at meetings Executive appointments.
All the candidates are interviewed The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and evaluations individual attendance by the members of the Committees of all candidates are discussed with all members of the only are shown in Fig.
Nomination Committee and the recommendation is subsequently made to the Board.
Internal control In respect of the appointment of Steve Ingham as Chief The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal Executive, the Nomination Committee considered an control are defined by the Financial Services Authoritys external search.
However, in view of the strong culture of Listing Rules which incorporate a Code of Practice known organic growth, the emphasis on promotion of capable as the Combined Code, which requires that Directors executives within the businesses, the strength and review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal experience of internal candidates, and the benefits of controls.
This requirement stipulates that the review shall continuity, the Nomination Committee concluded that cover all controls including operational, compliance and there would be no merit in progressing with an extensive risk management, as well as financial.
Internal Control 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the strategic plan.
Turnbull Report was published in September 1999.
The Group has a three-year strategic plan which is The Board has assessed existing risk management and approved by the Board and sets out the main objectives internal control processes during the year ended 31 for the Group: December 2006 in accordance with the 1999 Turnbull financial reporting.
The Board believes it has the procedures The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system in place such that the Group has fully complied for the with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Detailed financial year ended 31 December 2006 and at the date monthly reports are produced showing comparisons of of this report.
results against budget, forecast and the prior year, with The Directors are responsible for the Groups system performance monitoring and explanations provided for of internal financial and operational controls which are significant variances.
The Group reports to shareholders designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aim on a half-yearly basis: to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting quarterly reforecasting.
records are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
The Group prepares a full-year reforecast on a quarterly basis showing, by individual businesses disciplines, the Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, results to date and a reforecast against budget for the but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement remaining period up to the end of the year: and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal control are as follows: Audit Committee.
There is an established Audit Committee whose activities are previously described: The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, focusing mainly on strategic issues, operational and financial and operational controls.
There is also a defined policy on Controls and procedures are documented in policies matters strictly reserved for the Board.
The Managing and procedures manuals.
Individual operations Director of each operating division is accountable for complete an annual Self-Certification Statement.
Each establishing and monitoring internal controls within that operational manager, in addition to the finance function division: for that operation, confirms the adequacy of their Fig.
Attendance at Board Meetings Committee attendance shown for Committee members only Main Board Total meetings 12 Meetings attended Executive Steve Ingham 12 resigned 6 April 2006 Terry Benson 3 Charles-Henri Dumon 12 Stephen Puckett 11 Audit Remuneration Nomination Main Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 12 4 4 2 Non-Executive Sir Adrian Montague CBE 12 2 Stephen Box 12 4 4 2 Tim Miller 11 4 4 2 Hubert Reid 11 4 3 2 3 MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL systems of internal control and their compliance with Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Group policies.
The Statement also requires the reporting Meeting where they are able to discuss any concerns with of any significant control issues that have emerged so that the Non-Executive Directors.
areas of Group concern can be identified and experience When requested by shareholders, individual matters can be can be shared: discussed with the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The Group also has a website www.
co. uk with risk management.
an investor section that contains Company announcements Identification of major business risks is carried out at and other shareholder information.
Group level in conjunction with operational management Annual Report and appropriate steps taken to monitor and mitigate risk: The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
public interest disclosure policy whistleblowing.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and A procedure is in place where staff may, in confidence, Finance Directors Review provide an assessment of the raise concerns about possible improprieties relating to Groups affairs and position.
The Annual Report and Interim financial reporting or other matters: and Report are sent to all shareholders.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Report.
The Statement of Directors These are performed throughout the year by a dedicated Responsibilities is shown in the Directors Report.
A statement Internal Audit Manager, supported by members of the by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities is shown head office finance function, who are independent of the in the Independent Auditors Report on page 47. operations and by operational finance staff on operations outside their own regions.
Businesses are visited on a Going concern rotational basis and their controls are assessed in their effectiveness to mitigate specific risks.
In addition, there The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group is a regular review of these risks and changes are made has adequate resources to continue in operational existence to the risk profile where necessary.
All internal audit for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelveactivities are reported to the Audit Committee.
During the months from the date of approval of accounts, and therefore year, the Board reviewed internal audit arrangements and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the concluded that there is currently no need for a separate accounts.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed and distinct internal audit department.
the Groups budget and forecasts for the next twelve months based on normal business planning and control procedures.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and that the processes have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Board contact with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The main contact between the Board and shareholders is through the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
They undertake two major investor roadshows each year in February March and August September, in which numerous one-to-one meetings with shareholders take place.
The outcome of these meetings and the views of shareholders are relayed back to the Board by the corporate brokers, at the end of each roadshow.
The Groups corporate brokers also report monthly to the Board on broking activity during the month and any issues that may have been raised with them.
