CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in of the Boards standing committees and other directors corporate governance is observed throughout the Group, and considered by the Board to be independent, having taken remains the responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is consideration of the factors set out in Code provision A.
3.1. committed to maintaining high standards of business integrity There have been no signi cant changes in the Chairmans and professionalism in all its activities, and continues to external commitments since the last annual report.
support the highest standards in corporate governance.
There is a clearly fide ned division of responsibilities at the The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was in head of the Company, through the separation of the positions compliance with the provisions of the Revised Combined of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Of cer, and a Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council written statement of their respective responsibilities has been in June 2006. approved by the Board.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company THE BOARD Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, which has responsibility, amongst other things, for setting the directors are able, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice strategy and ensuring that adequate resources are available and leadership is provided to achieve the Groups strategy.
There is the opportunity for nonThe Board meets up to ten times a year and has a schedule executive directors to meet separately with the Chairman.
of matters reserved for its attention.
All directors receive The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company detailed papers one week prior to Board and committee Secretary, is also responsible for ensuring that new directors meetings.
Reserved matters which require Board approval receive appropriate training at the Companys expense where include: acquisitions: signi cant property transactions: speci c expertise is required in the course of the exercise capital expenditure above predetermined limits: major of their duties.
All directors receive a Board Compendium contractual commitments: Board level and Company detailing matters relating to Board procedures.
Secretary appointments terminations: signi cant litigation Non-executive directors are appointed for a speci c issues: the Groups financial statements and communications term and re-appointment is not a matter of course as with shareholders.
Other matters which are reserved for the each directors position is reviewed as they approach reBoard have been delegated to its standing committees, details appointment.
Succession planning is considered by the nonof which are set out further in this report.
Executive management is responsible to the Board for the John Sclater has been director of Millennium & Groups operational performance including: implementing Copthorne Hotels plc since the otation of the Group in Group strategy as determined by the Board: maintaining 1996.
The Board considers that John Sclater continues to be adequate internal control systems and risk management independent in character and judgement and that there are processes: monitoring operational performance against no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, plans and targets and reporting to the Board any signi cant or could appear to affect his judgement.
variances: maintaining an effective management team and Wong Hong Ren and John Sclater will retire by rotation planning for succession.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and will The Board currently comprises the Chairman and offer themselves for re-election.
Christopher Keljik will be two non-executive directors, who are directors of the appointed as a director in accordance with the Companys majority shareholder, City Developments Limited, a senior Articles of Association at the same meeting.
independent non-executive director as Deputy Chairman, On 12 January 2007 the Company announced the four additional independent non-executive directors and one appointment of Peter Papas as Group Chief Executive executive director.
Each director is expected to ful l their Of cer.
Mr Papas will join the Board on 1 March 2007 and, duties for the bene t of all shareholders and it is believed in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, that the independent non-executive directors provide strong will stand for election as a director at the forthcoming Annual independent judgement to the deliberations of the Board.
Directors biographies shown on pages 40 and 41 identify the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the chairmen 44 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc BOARD COMMITTEES The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing In relation to certain matters, committees have been established the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The standing committees of the The Audit Committee has concluded that, in some cases, Board are Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of notably the provision of taxation services, the provision of reference for these committees are available, on request, from non-audit services by the auditor is appropriate and this the Company Secretary and on the Groups web site at www.
has been communicated to the Board.
com The Company Secretary acts as secretary and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit Committee to all standing committees of the Board.
monitoring and approving, where appropriate, the nature of any non-audit work and the level of fees paid.
Audit Committee The external auditor and head of internal audit normally The Audit Committee, chaired by Christopher Sneath, attend all committee meetings, and the Groups chief financial consists of four non-executive directors, all of whom are of cer is normally invited to attend.
It is considered that Christopher Sneath has held with the external auditor without the presence of any recent and relevant financial experience as required by the member of the executive management and similar meetings are held with the head of internal audit.
The duties of the committee include: Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management procedures: Remuneration Committee Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor The Remuneration Committee is chaired by The Viscount and to make appropriate recommendations through the Thurso and consists entirely of independent non-executive Board to the shareholders to consider at the Annual directors.
The Committee met twice during the year.
It is General Meeting: responsible for considering and making recommendations to Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit prior the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys to the commencement of their work: reviewing the scope remuneration policies, the remuneration package of executive and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness: and directors and the operation of the Companys employee sharerecommendation of the audit fee to the Board: based incentive schemes.
The Group Chief Executive Of cer Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to the Board, would normally be invited to attend meetings, if appropriate, of periodic financial statements, annual accounts, reports but would not be present when his own remuneration is to shareholders and any other public announcement discussed.
The Committee takes independent advice as concerning the Companys financial position, corporate deemed necessary.
The Directors Remuneration Report is governance statements and statements on the Groups given on pages 50 to 56, where further details of remuneration system of internal controls: strategy are given.
The fees paid to non-executive directors Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees to are considered by the full Board, having regard to any relevant raise concerns, in con dence, about possible fraud risk or advice received.
wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Nominations Committee audit function: agreeing the annual work plan and being The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman satis ed itself that the function has the proper resources and includes five independent non-executive directors and meets to enable it to satisfactorily complete such work plans: as necessary.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews review status reports from the internal audit: considering the structure, size and composition of the Board, considers managements response to any major nding and providing succession planning for directors and other senior executives, support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required: and taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the ensuring that the function obtains free and unrestricted Group and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board access to all Group activities, records, property and in the future.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and personnel necessary to ful l its agreed objectives.
nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
45 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held during the year are shown below together with attendance details of each director.
Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or committee meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a Board member or member of the relevant committee.
In addition to the formal Board and committee meetings, the Chairman held one meeting during the year with only the independent non-executive directors present.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 10 10 na na 2 2 The Viscount Thurso Deputy Chairman 10 10 6 6 2 2 2 2 Tony Potter until his resignation on 27 October 2006 8 8 na na na Wong Hong Ren 9 10 na na na Christopher Sneath 9 10 6 6 2 2 2 2 Kwek Leng Joo 0 10 na na na Kwek Leng Peck 2 10 na na na Sir Idris Pearce until his resignation on 31 August 2006 7 7 3 4 2 2 na John Sclater 9 10 6 6 2 2 1 2 Charles Kirkwood 9 10 na 2 2 2 2 Christopher Keljik appointed 4 May 2006 5 6 2 3 1 1 2 2 EVALUATION PROCESS INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM The Board has a formal annual evaluation in respect of its The full Board is responsible for the Groups system of own performance, its committees and individual directors.
In internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In respect of the Board and its committees, directors complete establishing this system, the directors have considered the an evaluation questionnaire, developed in conjunction with nature of the Groups business, with regard to the risks to external consultants.
Responses from the process are collated which that particular business is exposed, the likelihood of by the Company Secretary, who compiles a report which is such risks occurring, their potential impact and the costs of then presented to the Board.
The performance of the executive protecting against them.
However, such a system is designed and non-executive directors is assessed annually by the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Chairman.
During the year, the Board reviewed and acted upon business objectives and can only provide reasonable and the findings of the formal evaluation that was undertaken.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The The independent non-executive directors, led by the Groups signi cant Risk Factors are included in the Business Senior Independent Director, meet annually to evaluate the Review on pages 29 and 30. effectiveness of the Chairman.
46 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc The Board con rms that, in accordance with the Turnbull COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, General presentations are made after the announcement evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the of preliminary, quarterly and half-yearly results.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and programme of meetings exists with major institutional has been in place for the year under review, and up to the shareholders to review the Groups performance and date of the approval of the Annual Report.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director has Primary responsibility for the operation of the system meetings with a range of major shareholders during the year of internal controls is delegated to executive management.
and other non-executive directors also have the opportunity The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where Board of views expressed by shareholders at these meetings.
appropriate, by the Companys external auditor, who report At general meetings there is the opportunity for all to management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors responsibility is delegated to an executive committee to including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in Nominations committees.
The Company prepares separate managing identi ed risks as established by the Board.
resolutions on each substantially separate issue put to The Internal Audit department reviews the effectiveness of shareholders and does not combine resolutions together key internal controls as part of its standard work programme, inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is made and individual reports are issued to appropriate senior available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings management.
These reports are summarised and distributed and the Annual Report is laid before the shareholders at to all members of the Audit Committee, the Group Chief the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Executive Of cer, senior management of the Groups finance Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least function, and the external auditor.
They are subsequently 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting, and the reviewed by the Audit Committee, which ensures that, where Company encourages all shareholders to make positive use of necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action the Companys Annual General Meeting for communication are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
The main features of the Companys internal control framework are: The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board, which sets business objectives for the Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each hotel are set by the Executive Management Team and reviewed by the Board in the light of overall objectives: Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, agreed by the Board, the day-to-day management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive Of cer and executive management.
The Executive Management Team receives a monthly summary of the results from the businesses and carries out regular operational reviews with business managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and management of the primary risks of the Group.
