Corporate governance report The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate circumstances that are likely to affect his judgement.
It is accountable to the Companys shareholders for specifically considered the independence of Tony Alexander as he good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group.
has served on the Board for ten years, having been appointed a non-executive Director on 1 May 1996.
The Board considers that he The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant with all continues to demonstrate all of the aforementioned characteristics.
the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance There is no evidence that length of tenure is having an adverse the Code throughout the year ended 31 May 2006, except as impact on his independence.
Therefore the Board regards him as indicated and explained below alphanumeric references are to independent.
Tony will be retiring from the Board at the close of the provisions of the Code : 2006 AGM.
Under the Articles of Association, George Farr will offer himself for re-election at the 2006 AGM.
As he will have served on A.
1.3: the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were the Board for nine years by the end of July 2007, he will seek recombined in the same person for the period ending 3 November election for one year only.
2005 at which point the roles were separated and the Company came into compliance.
Sir Dominic Cadbury was considered to be independent on his B.
2.1: following his appointment as Chairman and on the basis appointment as Chairman.
Under the Combined Code, after that he was independent under the Code at that time, the Board appointment the test of independence is no longer appropriate determined that Sir Dominic Cadbury should remain a member of, in relation to a chairman.
and continue to chair, the Remuneration Committee.
This decision was taken in light of his experience and expertise in fulfilling that As disclosed in the Directors report, HBOS plc has at the date of this role and of the proposal to amend the Combined Code to permit report a notifiable shareholding in the Company of 4.38% as defined the Chairman to sit on the Remuneration Committee.
He does not under s. 198 Companies Act 1985.
John Ormerod is not a director of participate in any of the Committees deliberations relating to his HBOS plc but serves as a co-opted member on its Audit Committee.
remuneration either as Chairman or otherwise.
Sir Dominics This connection has been disclosed to the Board which considers position as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be that this does not affect his independence.
D. 2.3: All of the Directors apart from Robert Ingram attended The non-executive Directors met as a group in May 2006 for two the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The first was to discuss, with the Chairman present, the results of the performance evaluation of the Chief The Board Executive.
The second was to discuss, in the absence of the The Chairman Chairman and led by the senior independent Director, the During the year the Board decided to separate the roles of Chairman performance of the Chairman and other issues.
Accordingly, Sir Dominic Cadbury was appointed Chairman in November 2005.
Kevin Lomax was confirmed as Chief As part of its evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Board Executive.
Sir Dominics appointment was initially on an interim has reviewed the availability of the non-executive Directors, including basis.
In March 2006, this was made permanent as the culmination the Chairman, and considers that each candidate for re-election as a of a process summarised under Board Committees Nomination Director at the 2006 AGM is able to devote the necessary amount of Committee below.
time to the business of the Company.
Composition and independence No executive Director has more than one non-executive directorship The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, four with a FTSE 100 company.
The Chief Executive will retire as a nonexecutive Directors and six independent non-executive Directors.
executive Director of Marks and Spencer Group plc on 31 August 2006.
Their biographies appear on page 41.
The Board collectively has a wide range of relevant business, financial and international Responsibilities experience, which is vital to the successful direction of a global The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of company.
John Ormerod was appointed a non-executive Director on the Companys business and determines Group strategy, reviews 1 October 2005.
Johns background is in corporate governance and trading performance, ensures adequate funding and examines major audit, with wide experience in the professional services and financial investments.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its spheres gained from work with a range of major international decision including approval of the accounts and dividends, significant organisations.
Since his appointment he has been Chairman of the strategic decisions, fixed forecast, transactions, settlement of litigation Audit Committee and he succeeded Sir Dominic Cadbury as senior over a certain threshold, fundamental changes to the internal control independent Director in November 2005.
John King was appointed a system, the adoption of new employee incentivisation plans, and the non-executive Director on 2 November 2005.
He brings to the Board delegation of authority to committees and individual Directors.
The full thirty years of experience of the US healthcare industry and holds schedule is available on the Companys website.
senior appointments in a number of healthcare bodies.
In light of the integrity of the individual Directors and of the current The non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate balance of four executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear on six independent non-executive Directors, the Board is of the view that issues brought before the Board and Board committees.
They bring no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards considerable knowledge and experience from other areas of business decision taking.
Following the retirement of Ian Dyson and Robert and public life, together with an international perspective, and their Ingram at the 2005 AGM, the Board recruited two new non-executive views carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
They also Directors to ensure it maintained a majority of independent nonmeet as a group without executive Directors being present.
executive Directors for the foreseeable future.
In November 2005 John Ormerod succeeded Sir Dominic Cadbury in the role of senior Having conducted a review, the Board considers all the non-executive independent Director, and as such he provides an alternative Directors to be independent in accordance with provision A.
3.1 of to the Chairman as a Board-level contact for shareholders.
In doing so, the Board weighed a number of factors including whether each non-executive Director is objective, provides During the year, as reported above, the combined role of Chairman a challenge to management, is prepared to challenge the views of and Chief Executive was separated.
The Chairman is responsible for others, demonstrates a good understanding of the business, has the running the Board and carrying out the duties enumerated under the best interests of the Company in mind and has no relationships or Code, including ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
Page 44 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Kevin Lomax continues in the role of Chief Executive and, following the internal audit function.
Further details on internal control are departure of Ivan Martin, has taken over responsibility for the running of provided in the section below.
Details of membership of the Board Misys Banking Systems.
The day-to-day operation of Misys Healthcare Committees is set out below.
Systems is under the control of its CEO, Tom Skelton, who sits on the Misys plc Board and reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The CEO of In addition to the five standing Board Committees, as announced on Sesame also reports to the Chief Executive.
Operational responsibility 9 June 2006, the Board has received a request from certain members for the strategic development of the Group is shared among the Chief of the senior management team to explore the possibility of making Executive, the Corporate Development Director, and the divisional CEOs an offer for the Company.
An Independent Committee of the Board, with input from senior managers around the Group.
comprising all the non-executive Directors and chaired by the Chairman, has been formed to consider the request.
The quorum is A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate any three members and the Company Secretary acts as secretary.
circumstances, to take independent professional advice in respect JPMorgan Cazenove has been appointed to advise the Independent of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the Company.
In addition, all Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who also acts as General Counsel, for advice.
The Audit Committee was chaired by Ian Dyson until his resignation from the Board in September 2005.
He was succeeded by John Board processes Ormerod who has recent and relevant financial experience.
Its other One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that Board members are Tony Alexander, George Farr, John King and Dr Jrgen members receive sufficient and timely information regarding Zech.
Sir Dominic Cadbury served on the Committee until his corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their appointment as Chairman in November 2005.
The Committee met duties and to enable them to make further enquiries where four times during 2005 06 2004 05: three times, with the Finance necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the quality and quantity of Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the this information and recommends adjustments as necessary or external auditors,  LLP PwC invited to advisable.
From time to time, the Board also receives detailed attend as appropriate.
During the year the Committee met the presentations from non-Board members on the operating divisions, external auditors twice, and the Head of Internal Audit once.
The product strategy, new opportunities for the Group and other matters Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee Chairman of significance.
The Board meets at least eight times a year aiming and met with him on a number of occasions during the year.
to hold two meetings each year in the United States, one of which is combined with a two day conference involving an in-depth review of The Committees duties include the review and approval, where Group strategy as well as meetings with senior management.
required, of the draft results prior to publication, the effectiveness and reliability of the Groups system of internal control, the internal The Board also reviews periodically whether the number of audit function, any changes to financial reporting requirements and regularly scheduled meetings is appropriate for the anticipated matters arising from the annual Group audit.
The Committee is also needs of the business.
responsible for reviewing the Companys policy on whistleblowing and this is scheduled for October 2006.
Training The Chairman is also charged with ensuring that all new Board The Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups members are equipped to fulfil their duties and responsibilities.
auditors is of paramount importance to shareholders and has As part of the early familiarisation programme, new non-executive established a policy for monitoring and approving the level of non-audit Directors are encouraged to meet the executive Directors individually fees e. g. accounting, tax or other financial consultancy related work and engage in an induction programme of visits to different paid to the Group auditors in order to identify and minimise any businesses within the Group where they have the opportunity to potential conflicts of interest.
The policy prohibits using PwC in projects meet the senior management.
All Directors receive training about which represent a real threat to the independence of the audit team their duties, significant changes in the law and the sectors in which such as where the external auditor would be in a position where it is the Company operates.
auditing its own work e. g. financial systems implementations or where there is evident self-interest, for example where an interest in Board evaluation the outcome of their work might conflict with the auditors objectivity.
During the year the Directors conducted, by way of a detailed If PwC is to be considered for the provision of non-audit services questionnaire and discussion, an evaluation of the performance such as tax advice and compliance, due diligence work in relation to of the Board collectively, of its three principal Committees Audit, acquisitions the scope and fees must be approved in advance by the Nomination and Remuneration, of the Chairman and of the Chief Group Finance Director and the Committee Secretary and, in the case Executive.
In light of the number of recent arrivals and departures of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single project, by the Committee on the Board, the Board decided to defer until the next review, the Chairman.
This may involve a competitive tender process unless there formal evaluation by questionnaire of individual Directors.
However, are compelling commercial or timescale reasons to use PwC.
A report the Chairman did make himself available to discuss any issues on non-audit services is reviewed and approved by the Committee at regarding individual performance or any areas of concern.
The each of its January and July meetings.
The non-audit fees paid to PwC Company Secretary analysed the questionnaires and provided initial amounted to 1.9m or 56% of total fees paid.
The Committee believes feedback to the Chairman and the senior independent Director.
that the quality of the audit process was not adversely affected by PwCs The Board received and reviewed the overall average scores.
These non-audit work for the Group.
results formed one of the bases for further discussion by the Board collectively, and by the non-executive Directors in respect of the During the year the Committees work has included: evaluation of the Committees, the performance of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The review identified a few areas for reviewing the Groups draft 2005 financial statements and 2006 improvement, including enhancing the induction of new Directors interim results, including the transition to IFRS, and related and increased exposure to executives below Board level.
announcements prior to Board approval, together with PwCs reports thereon: Board committees reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: Responsibilities at Board level are divided among five standing Board reviewing the risks associated with the Groups businesses: Committees, which operate within formally defined written terms reviewing periodic reports from the internal audit function: of reference that are available on request and from the Companys reviewing and approving PwCs terms of engagement, fees and website.
These oversight roles are complemented by an active non-audit fees: and reviewing PwCs strategy for the audit of the 2006 financial statements.
Page 45 Corporate governance report continued The Nomination Committee, chaired by George Farr, consists of all the non-executive Directors including the Chairman, and meets as necessary, liaising closely with the Chief Executive.
It met six times during 2005 06 three times during 2004 05 and participants attended either in person or by telephone.
It assesses the suitability of persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
The Committee plays an important role in succession planning for the Board and key senior executives and performs regular assessments of the requirements of the Board as a whole.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee oversees the search and selection process for new Directors and aims to do so in compliance with the recommendations under the Code.
As such, the Committee seeks to make appointments on merit and against objective criteria.
The Committee also seeks to satisfy itself that there are in place plans for orderly succession of appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
During the year the Committee oversaw the recruitment of two new non-executive Directors, John King and John Ormerod, in both cases using a search firm after having drawn up the criteria to be satisfied by each of the successful candidates.
The Committee also launched a search for a non-executive Chairman, again using a recruitment firm to identify suitable candidates.
As the search progressed, it became evident to the recruitment firm and to members of the Committee that Sir Dominic Cadbury had the credentials to be a strong contender to fill the role.
On being approached about being considered for the post of permanent Chairman, Sir Dominic agreed to add his name to the list of candidates and thereafter he did not participate in any deliberations regarding the appointment.
The Committee considered the candidates for the role and decided to recommend to the Board that Sir Dominic Cadbury be appointed Chairman on a permanent basis.
The Board accepted this recommendation and the appointment was made permanent with effect from 22 March 2006.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury, consists of all the non-executive Directors and meets when necessary, but at least three times a year.
It met eight times during the year six times during 2004 05 and participants attended either in person or by telephone.
The Chief Executive and other executive Directors are invited to attend the Committees meetings as the members consider appropriate.
Details of the Committees main functions, and its remuneration policies for the Companys Directors and senior executives, are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 56.
The Treasury Committee was established by the Board to review the function and operation of the Groups centralised treasury, whose primary role is to manage the foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks arising from the operation of the business.
The Committee is governed by written terms of reference and meets as necessary, reporting its decisions to the next meeting of the Board.
Its membership comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Corporate Development Director, the Group Treasurer and John Ormerod as the non-executive Director member succeeding Ian Dyson.
The minimum attendance required is two Directors, one of whom must be the Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
The General Purposes Committee transacts routine business of the Board, principally in relation to the Companys employee share plans.
The Committee operates within clearly defined written terms of reference and financial limits.
It meets when necessary and reports to the Board on its decisions on a regular basis.
All the Directors, together with the Company Secretary, are members of the Committee, with a minimum of two Directors required to attend.
The attendance record of each Director during the year is set out below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held during the year 8 4 6 8 A G L Alexander 846 8 i, ii Sir Dominic Cadbury 8 2 3 4 4 8 G L Farr 7 468 i J G King appointed 2 November 2005 5 5 1 1 4 4 4 4 i J Ormerod appointed 1 October 2005 5 5 2 2 5 5 5 5 A Ramji 64 6 Dr J Zech 846 8 i I Dyson retired 13 September 2005 3 3 1 1 1 1 3 3 i R Ingram retired 13 September 2005 0 3 0 3 0 1 J K Lomax 8 H Evans 8 i I Martin retired 31 December 2005 4 5 J P McMahon 8 T K Skelton 8 i Figures in brackets indicate the maximum possible number of meetings he could have attended where different from the maximum held during the year.
ii Sir Dominic Cadbury stepped down from the Audit Committee on being appointed Chairman of the Board.
The General Purposes Committee and Treasury Committee hold a number of ad hoc meetings attended by the Directors and accordingly are not included in the above table.
All the Directors attended the 2005 AGM except Robert Ingram who had a previous commitment.
Page 46 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 against any actions are then reported to the Audit Committee on a Relations with shareholders The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining a regular basis.
purposeful relationship with its investors.
The Chairman and all executive Directors hold briefing meetings with financial analysts Financial monitoring and reporting The Group operates a system of rolling forecasts, which are updated and institutional shareholders, including presentations following the interim and preliminary results announcements, and their views quarterly, such that forecasts covering the next twelve months are always available.
On at least an annual basis these forecasts are are communicated to the Board.
formally approved by the Board and become the fixed forecast which is used in subsequent months to monitor actual performance.
The In addition, business and market briefings are held periodically to ensure that the analysts and investing community receive a actual results, including key performance indicators, are prepared on a monthly basis and both the month and cumulative results are broader view of the Groups operations and the issues faced by the business.
On 24 March 2006 a seminar was held in London which compared with the relevant fixed and the then latest forecast as well as the prior year.
There is a high emphasis placed on cash provided an opportunity for analysts to gain a deeper understanding of Misys Healthcare Systems.
generation with cash flows and balances monitored at business, divisional and Group level by a system of weekly and monthly cash The executive Directors regularly conduct one-on-one and or group reports.
Treasury and taxation policies are reviewed at least annually and are themselves subject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Chairman, the senior independent Director, and the non-executive Directors, are available Authority levels to meet with shareholders on request.
During the year, a number of meetings with major shareholders were held to discuss the Defined levels of authority at Group, divisional and business unit level are established for the approval of major development projects, proposed separation of the combined Chairman Chief Executive role and other major issues.
contractual and other commitments of a revenue nature and capital expenditure.
Authority levels are reviewed regularly and approved by The Board, including the non-executive Directors, has access to the the Group or divisional Board as appropriate.
services of Makinson Cowell, which provides independent advice concerning the relationship between the Company and its institutional Investment appraisal Potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are investors, and produces regular written reports to the Board.
reviewed rigorously against the Groups standards for investment return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions before The principal communications with private investors are through the Companys website www.
com, the annual report and financial contractual commitment.
statements, the interim statement and the AGM.
All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders with the System of operating unit control procedures Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board.
The Company responds as necessary to enquiries from individual shareholders on regular divisional Board and management meetings, which are attended by Misys executive and divisional Directors.
Financial a wide range of issues.
controls and procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is circulated to all business units, regularly updated and The financial and other information, including presentations to analysts and investors in audio and text formats, are made available published on the Groups intranet.
Written confirmation of compliance with internal financial control policies is obtained from the finance on the Companys website.
Further details are contained in the Investor information section on page 101. directors and general managers of the operating units.
In addition, compliance with the Groups policies and procedures is monitored by Auditors independence means of regular visits to operating units by the Groups financial management including the Group Internal Audit function.
The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors,  LLP, and concluded that there are Internal audit sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
The internal audit function, through a structured review process, assesses the key financial controls and levels of compliance with Internal control the Groups policies and procedures.
The central Group functions, including Group Finance, Group Tax and Group Treasury, are also In line with best practice identified in the Turnbull guidance, the following section summarises the Groups system of internal control reviewed as part of internal audits work plan.
During the financial year the work of the internal audit function has been supplemented which comprises a number of distinct individual processes and procedures that, when taken together, provide a reasonable, but by reviews carried out by two of the Big Four auditing firms other than PwC, which have provided access to skills and resources for not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Directors are aware of the revised Turnbull guidance issued in specialist functions, such as treasury, as well as the opportunity for external input to, and critique of, processes in more standard areas.
October 2005 that will affect compliance and reporting on internal controls in the financial year ending 31 May 2007.
The Audit Committee reviews regularly the work plan and key findings arising from the internal audit process.
Risk management The process and systems described above have been in place during A comprehensive risk management process has been developed that identifies, evaluates and manages the key business, operational, the financial year ended 31 May 2006 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
financial and compliance risks that are considered to be important both from an overall Group and individual business perspective.
The process The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility involves each division regularly reviewing the most important risks to which the business is exposed and the control processes in place that for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirm that they have reviewed its effectiveness manage and or mitigate the potential exposure to those risks.
The business risks and controls are then evaluated by the senior management team who determine which risks, in their opinion, are On behalf of the Board the most significant to the Group overall.
Senior executives are given responsibility to deal with any items requiring action and to report Dan Fitz General Counsel and Company Secretary regularly on progress.
The risks, identified controls and progress 27 July 2006 Page 47
