About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Corporate governance Combined Code compliance Board and committee structure The Board is committed to compliance with the principles of To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate and committee structure operates as set out below: Governance the Code and considers that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 30 September 2006 with The Board all the provisions of the Code.
The Board consists of the part-time Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order There are eight regular Board meetings currently planned for to discharge that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has 2007, with further ad hoc meetings as required to consider matters established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including which are time critical.
There were nine meetings during 2005 06. clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller were each unable to attend one authority.
These procedures have been in place since the Group meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
Where a Director was was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
unable to attend a meeting, he or she was provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and was able to Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, the Board discuss issues arising with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
and the Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews strategic reviews: significant investment proposals and the performance of past financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups and accounting framework: operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall capital investment and asset management performance, with system of internal controls, governance and compliance.
The Board detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: and ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are risk management, through an ongoing process, which accords in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board has with the Turnbull guidance and provides assurance through established a schedule of matters which are reserved for its attention reports from the Director of Group Assurance, that the significant which are published on the Companys website.
risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost The Board has adopted objective criteria for the appointment and opportunity.
of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors have been defined in writing.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good reports from the Director of Group Assurance on the work carried information flows to the Board and its committees and between out under the annual internal audit plan: and senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company reports from the External Auditors.
Secretary is responsible through the Chairman for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Directors Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has with their professional development, as well as facilitating the conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal induction of Directors.
This includes regular corporate governance control during the year ended 30 September 2006.
The system and business issues updates, as well as the use of site visits and the of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, provision of external courses where required.
The appointment and the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the The following were Directors of the Company during the year: review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any Appointed change to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
Roger Carr Chairman 10.02.03 Tim Clarke Chief Executive 10.02.03 Although it filed to suspend its registration with the US Securities Mike Bramley Managing Director, and Exchange Commission on 24 August 2006, and therefore Pubs & Bars 15.04.03 is no longer required to comply with the requirements of the George Fairweather Independent Non-Executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act to certify the effectiveness of its financial Director 15.04.03 controls, the Directors remain fully committed to ensuring that Tony Hughes Managing Director, Restaurants 15.04.03 the Company operates in a good control environment.
Karim Naffah Finance Director 15.04.03 Sara Weller Independent Non-Executive With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure Director 15.04.03 against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing Director 16.05.03 in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and Drummond Hall Independent Non-Executive magnitude of the risks involved.
Director 30.07.04 24 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | Directors biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23 of the Committees Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 and these The committees of the Board each have written terms of include their main commitments outside the Company.
reference approved by the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Karim Naffah, Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller will retire by rotation and offer themselves for reappointment at the 2007 AGM Audit Committee on 1 February.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts The Audit Committee, which is chaired by George Fairweather, are set out on page 32.
The Chairman and the four independent consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend at the invitation of the Committees Chairman.
Chairman Roger Carr is Chairman of the Board and has responsibility for the Further details about the Committee are included in the Audit smooth running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are Committee report on page 27. fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
He also ensures that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
Roger Remuneration Committee chairs a FTSE 100 company and is deputy chairman of another.
The During the year, the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired independent Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent by Sara Weller, comprised the four independent Non-Executive Director specifically considered his contribution as part of the Board Directors.
Roger Carr was appointed to the Remuneration Committee effectiveness review referred to on page 26 and confirmed that he on 1 October 2006, in line with revisions made to the Code during demonstrates, through his energy, commitment, knowledge and the year, although the Committee noted that these changes came performance, that he is more than capable of dedicating sufficient into effect for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2006. time to his role of Chairman of the Company alongside his other non-executive commitments.
The Chairman met separately with Further details about the Committee are included in the the Non-Executives without the Executive Directors present as part Remuneration report on page 29. of the formal Board effectiveness review.
Nomination Committee Chief Executive The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, who Tim Clarke is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for chairs the Committee, the four independent Non-Executive implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary is the Group.
He has authority to approve capital expenditure projects secretary to this Committee.
The terms of reference for this up to a level authorised by the Board.
Committee are consistent with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, Senior Independent Director for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Sara Weller is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Board and also for succession planning and it reviews the output Her responsibilities include being available to liaise with of the Board effectiveness review.
It met twice during the year shareholders who have issues to raise.
She is a member of to consider succession planning and to confirm the Chairmans the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and continuing appointment for a further three year term, subject to the Audit Committee.
She meets annually with the independent reappointment at the 2008 AGM.
Although Sir Tim Lankester was Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to review unable to attend one meeting, he was nevertheless provided with the performance of the Chairman, having taken account of the all the papers and information relating to that meeting and was able views of the Executive Directors.
to discuss issues arising with the Chairman of the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors General Purposes Committee The Company has experienced independent Non-Executive The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive Directors who represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer In addition to the Chairman, who was independent on his from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always appointment, there are four Non-Executive Directors, who the chaired by a Director.
It attends to business of a routine nature and Board considers to be wholly independent.
Other than their fees to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been which are disclosed on page 33, the independent Non-Executive agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, Executive Committee the Nomination Committee will take into account their other The Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, consists responsibilities in assessing whether they can commit sufficient of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives time to their prospective directorship.
as shown on pages 22 to 23 of the Annual review and summary financial statement 2006.
All Directors are briefed by use of comprehensive papers in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the meetings.
Their The Committee meets every four weeks and has everyday understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by business responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It develops presentations and operational visits to the Companys businesses.
the Groups strategy and revenue and capital budgets for Board Separate strategy meetings and ad hoc meetings with senior approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant executives are attended.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 25 | About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary The Committee monitors the financial, operational and customer service performance of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management manpower planning and succession plans.
Board effectiveness evaluation An evaluation of the Boards effectiveness was carried out shortly after the year end, which included a review of the performance of the Chairman and of the individual Directors.
Topics covered included succession planning, the provision of information to the Board, interaction with Board committees and liaison with Divisional Directors.
Output from the Board effectiveness review is considered by the Nomination Committee to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience is represented on the Board.
As a result of the Board effectiveness review, improvements to the dissemination of information between Board meetings have been instigated.
Feedback from the review was given to the Board for discussion and the Directors concluded that the Board and its committees continue to work effectively.
Re-election of Directors The Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for re-election every three years.
The proposals for reappointments at the 2007 AGM are set out on page 2 of the AGM Notice.
Independent advice Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Shareholder relations The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director report to the Board the views of major shareholders about the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available to major shareholders on request.
Institutional investors and analysts are also invited to briefings by the Company after the announcement of its interim and final results.
The content of these briefings is posted on the Companys website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend to answer questions.
26 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 |
