Corporate Governance The adoption of good corporate governance practice is essential D Director responsibility for ensuring the future growth and success of MITIE Group PLC.
To There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman achieve this, the Board believes that corporate governance must and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for running the form an integral part of the operating activities of the business to Board thus ensuring, amongst other things, that the Non-Executive complement and enhance rather than stifle these activities.
Directors contribute effectively, that there are constructive In the Boards efforts to develop the Groups corporate relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and governance environment, and to ensure an effective fit with that the Board is aware of communications with Shareholders.
the operating functions of the business, a number of changes The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Group in and enhancements have been made during the year ended accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
These include the appointment of two new ensures that there is a balance of power and authority such that Independent Non-Executive Directors, the appointment of a no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
dedicated Head of Corporate Responsibility and a review of the The commitments outside the Group of the Executive Directors are schedule of matters reserved for the Board and its Committees shown on page 36.
The Board does not consider these additional terms of reference.
responsibilities to prejudice the Directors abilities to carry out their This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, duties effectively.
Details of the remuneration received from these explains the manner in which the Board of MITIE Group PLC has commitments are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages applied the principles and provisions of good governance as set 39 to 42.
Within the Group, to ensure that undue reliance is not out in the Combined Code, and how the corporate placed on a particular Director or Committee member, no governance environment within the MITIE Group has developed individual Director is Chairman of more than one Committee.
B Board responsibility T The Board MITIE Group PLC maintains a formal schedule of specific matters Board of Directors reserved for the decision of the Board.
This has been reviewed to ensure it meets the changing needs of the Group.
This schedule During the year the composition and structure of the Board has includes: been reviewed.
As a part of this review Ruby McGregor-Smith was promoted to the newly created position of Chief Operating 1.
Setting of the strategy and corporate objectives of the Group: Officer on 9 September 2005.
Approval of business plans and budgets and monitoring of her role as Group Finance Director on the appointment of performance against these: Suzanne Baxter to this position on 10 April 2006.
Approval of material acquisitions, disposals, and start-ups of new Independent Non-Executive Directors have been appointed: companies or businesses: Ishbel Macpherson on 28 July 2005 and David Jenkins on 1 March 4.
Approval of contracts, bids and tenders where the contract is 2006.
Manish Chande left the Board on 31 March 2006. material by value or otherwise unusual in scope, nature or risk exposure: Specialist recruitment consultants were used to assist in the 5.
Approval of the Groups Interim Report and Annual Report recruitment of Non-Executive Directors and the Group Finance and Accounts and any announcements relating thereto: Director, in conjunction with other recommendations to the 6.
Appointment and removal of the Chairman, Directors and Nomination Committee, to ensure that the most appropriate Company Secretary: candidates were appointed.
Following due consideration of all 7. Review of the Groups systems of internal control, including individuals identified, the Nomination Committee recommended financial, operational and compliance controls and risk to the Board the appointment of Ishbel Macpherson and David management systems: Jenkins.
Both were recruited for their considerable business 8. Review of the Groups corporate governance arrangements: experience and skill.
Ishbel Macpherson has over 20 years of 9.
Approval of significant changes to the Groups corporate or corporate finance experience and was Head of UK Emerging management structure: and Companies Corporate Finance at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein 10.
Establishment and review of Board Committees, their and David Jenkins was a partner in Deloitte & Touche LLP for over membership, terms of reference and activities, and approval 30 years in their Assurance and Advisory division in London before of their recommendations as appropriate.
Full details of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board are At 31 March 2006 the Board of MITIE Group PLC comprised six available on the Groups website www.
co. uk or from the Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
Although the balance of Executive and Independent B Board meetings Non-Executive Directors does not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, the Board and Nomination Committee are Wherever possible, the Directors are expected to attend all Board satisfied that the current structure and composition of the Board meetings and the AGM.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, includes the necessary skills, knowledge, and experience to there were eight scheduled meetings.
manage the Group and its affairs effectively.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee D Director independence meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nomination is shown in the following table: All Non-Executive Directors are considered to meet the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code.
All Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are considered independent of management and free from any material business or other relationships that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In respect of the Chairman, the level of communication and involvement he has with the Executive Directors and in the affairs of MITIE Group not only serves to keep him abreast of current business issues, but also continues to provide the Executive Directors with access to an independent opinion on day-to-day business decisions.
MITIE Group PLC 43 Corporate Governance continued Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for Number of meetings ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and held in year 8 3 5 6 regulations are observed, including advising on all governance matters.
The Company Secretarial Department provides D C Ord 8 3 5 6 secretarial services to the Board and all its Committees.
I R Stewart 8 - - - C S Acheson 8 - - - T The Committees N R Goodman 8 - - - C S Hale 6 - - - During the year the membership of the Audit, Remuneration R McGregor-Smith 8 - - - and Nomination Committees was reviewed following the W Robson 7 - - - appointments of two new Non-Executive Directors and Manish 1 M J Chande 53 4 5 Chandes resignation from the Board.
Specific changes are Sir J S Jennings 8 3 4 6 included below.
C McAlpine 7 3 4 - E Executive Committee 2 I J S Macpherson 5- - - 2 D S Jenkins 2- - - The purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the Board and Chief Executive with: 1.
M J Chande stepped down from the committees on 30 March 2006 and developing and implementing strategy, operational plans, resigned from the Board on 31 March 2006. policies, procedures and budgets: 2.
I J S Macpherson and D S Jenkins have attended all meetings since the day to day management of the Group: being appointed.
monitoring operating and financial performance: and assessing and controlling risk.
There are various procedures in place to ensure that each Director is supplied with an agenda and sufficient supporting The specific responsibilities of the Executive Committee are papers for all meetings on a timely basis so that they are formally set out in the Committees terms of reference which appropriately briefed and able to properly discharge their duties.
are available from the Company Secretary on request.
As and when necessary, the information supplied to the Board is To assist the Executive Committee, the management of each reviewed to ensure that it is of sufficient quality and that it meets support function submits reports in advance of each meeting.
These reports cover, amongst other things, operational During the year the Chairman also met with the other performance, health and safety, finance, Corporate Non-Executive Directors on several occasions, usually prior to main Responsibility, marketing, quality, risk management and internal Board meetings, without the Executive Directors being present.
audit, human relations and strategic project activities.
D Director appointment, rotation, support and appraisal To ensure that these matters are dealt with in the appropriate manner and given sufficient attention, eight Executive Committee Each new Director is inducted in a suitable manner dependent meetings were held during the year.
The induction programme includes introductions to all the Directors and members of senior management, visits to The Executive Committees current members include the various sites if requested, and a tailored pack of information Executive Directors of MITIE Group PLC.
The senior managers which includes amongst other things, a copy of MITIE Group of each division are also invited to attend the meetings.
PLCs Memorandum and Articles of Association, Committee The Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
terms of reference, and copies of recent Board minutes and A Audit Committee supporting papers.
The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors and All new and existing Directors are entitled to receive any training is chaired by Cullum McAlpine.
On 31 March 2006 the Audit they consider necessary to enable them to fulfil their Committee comprised David Jenkins, Sir John Jennings, Ishbel responsibilities effectively.
All Directors are also entitled to seek Macpherson and Cullum McAlpine.
On 30 March 2006 both independent legal advice.
Any associated costs are funded by Manish Chande and David Ord ceased to be members of the MITIE Group PLC.
On the same date David Jenkins and Ishbel All Directors are appointed by the Board on the recommendation Macpherson became new members of the Committee.
All new Directors are subject to The Groups external Auditors normally attend the Audit re-election by the Shareholders at the first AGM after their Committee meetings.
At the invitation of the Committee, appointment.
All Directors have also been re-appointed within the Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance Director, other a three year period, as required by the Companys Articles of senior managers and the Manager of the Internal Audit and Association.
The Directors due for re-election at the next AGM are Risk Management Department may also attend.
shown in the Directors Report.
R Report of the Audit Committee None of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors has a service contract with a notice period greater than twelve months.
These The Committee met three times during the year.
The matters service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys considered at these meetings included: Registered Office, the Head Office, and at the AGM.
the Groups Interim Report and Annual Report and Accounts: Board Director performance appraisal is carried out through a critical accounting policies, significant judgements, and number of formal and informal processes.
The formal processes changes in accounting policy: include the completion of a detailed appraisal questionnaire a review and approval of the Internal Audit plan for the year where all Board Directors are asked to comment on a number of ending 31 March 2007: areas, including various Board, Committee and individual the external Auditors audit plan and year-end summary performance factors.
The results of this exercise are reviewed and memorandum: considered by the Chairman and discussed with individual the effectiveness of the external Auditors: Directors, where necessary, and in summary at a Board meeting.
the appropriateness of the going concern assumption: Where improvements in performance are required, appropriate presentations from senior management regarding matters action is taken.
Executive Director performance is also assessed identified during the Groups internal audit and risk against agreed targets as part of the Remuneration Committees management activities: annual review of Executive Director remuneration.
corporate governance matters arising under the Combined Code: and the methodology and effectiveness of the Internal Audit and Risk Management Department.
44 MITIE Group PLC During the year the Audit Committee has also been responsible During the year the Committee held six meetings at which it: for monitoring the Groups procedures that allow employees to considered matters of Director succession planning: communicate concerns, in confidence, about possible recommended specialist Non-Executive Director and Group improprieties of any nature around the Group, and the processes Finance Director recruitment agencies: in place to investigate and follow these up.
All communications recommended to the Board the appointment of two new received have been investigated appropriately and none has Independent Non-Executive Directors: constituted a significant risk to the Group.
recommended to the Board the appointment of a new Chief The Committee is also responsible for considering the fees, nature Operating Officer: and and scope of work and independence and objectivity of the recommended to the Board the appointment of a new Group Groups external Auditors as well as their appointment, reFinance Director.
appointment and removal as necessary.
This is done through a The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and number of formal and informal processes, including regular Nomination Committees are available on the Groups website dialogue concerning such matters between the Committee and www.
co. uk or from the Company Secretary on request.
external Auditors, reports made to the Committee by the Auditors, and an assessment of the effectiveness of the Auditors by the S Shareholder communications Committee once a year.
The Board of Directors is committed to maintaining an ongoing The Committee met the external Auditors during the year without relationship with institutional and private Shareholders through the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Board recognises the importance of this process and that Shareholders must receive relevant high quality The Committee recognises that during the year there may be information in a timely manner.
To facilitate this, MITIEs website is occasions when the external Auditors provide non-audit services regularly updated with all announcements and presentations as to the Group.
In such instances, independence matters are given and when they are released.
The website also contains other careful consideration prior to such appointments, in line with the investor-related information tailored to help enhance an investors Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services.
There are understanding of the Group.
additional controls in place within Deloitte & Touche LLP regarding the segregation and nature of the services provided to act as an The principal channels of communication between the Board and additional safeguard over independence.
An analysis of the fees Shareholders are meetings with institutional investors and analysts paid to the Auditors is given in Note 4. after the release of the Interim Report and again after the release of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Meetings are also held with The Board and Audit Committee are satisfied that at least one of Shareholders on request which are usually satisfied by the Chief the Audit Committee members has recent and relevant financial Executive, the Chief Operating Officer and the Group Finance experience.
In addition, and if necessary, the Committee is Director.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are given the authorised to obtain professional independent advice at the opportunity to meet institutional Shareholders, and they are Groups expense.
available to Shareholders throughout the year if Shareholders R Remuneration Committee request additional meetings.
Any significant matters arising in these meetings are fed back to the Board as necessary by the One of the primary purposes of the Remuneration Committee is to Chief Executive and or the Chairman.
assist the Board in the development of an effective remuneration framework for Executive Directors and senior management.
This The Groups AGM also provides Shareholders with the opportunity and the Committees additional duties are formalised in the to meet and ask questions of the full Board of Directors.
Both Committees terms of reference.
institutional and private Shareholders are welcomed at the AGM.
To help the Committee fulfil its duties, external remuneration IInternal Control and Risk Management consultants New Bridge Street Consultants LLP were appointed The Board of MITIE Group PLC is responsible for the Groups system to undertake an independent review of MITIE Group PLCs of internal control and the Groups risk management systems.
This remuneration policy for its Directors.
responsibility includes the requirement for the Directors to regularly At the end of the year the members of the Remuneration review the operation and effectiveness of these systems.
MITIEs Committee were David Jenkins, Sir John Jennings, Ishbel system of internal control is designed to manage rather than Macpherson and Cullum McAlpine.
On 30 March 2006 Manish eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In Chande and David Ord ceased to be members of the pursuing these objectives, the system of internal control can only Committee.
On the same day David Jenkins and Ishbel provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Macpherson became members of the Committee.
An annual review of the operation and effectiveness of the During the year there were five meetings.
internal control framework has been undertaken.
Key elements of the process used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the The Directors Remuneration Report includes details of the system of internal control include reviews of significant issues remuneration policy and of the remuneration of the Directors.
arising from internal and external audits, a review of the significant risks reported in the Group risk register, and discussions with senior N Nomination Committee management.
In addition, a detailed report is submitted to the The Nomination Committee is responsible for, amongst other Board for review which collates various high level reports from things, reviewing the balance and composition of the Board, key senior managers at Group covering the high level control identifying and nominating for approval by the Board appropriate environment in their particular area of specialism.
This report candidates to fill vacancies as they arise, and considering also includes an independent consideration of key aspects of succession planning.
These, and the Committees additional the control environment by the Internal Audit and Risk duties, are formalised in its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee comprised five Non-Executive The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for Directors at 31 March 2006, David Jenkins, Sir John Jennings, Ishbel identifying, evaluating, and managing significant risks faced by Macpherson, Cullum McAlpine and David Ord.
It is chaired by Sir the Group.
The Board also confirms that this process has been in John Jennings, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
place throughout the year under review and up to the date of On 30 March 2006 David Jenkins, Ishbel Macpherson and Cullum approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These processes McAlpine became members of the Committee.
Manish Chande are in accordance with the Turnbull guidance issued by the ceased to be a member on 30 March 2006.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
MITIE Group PLC 45 Corporate Governance continued The following information provides further details of the R Risk management key features of MITIEs system of internal control and risk The Groups risk management framework has been enhanced management systems.
during the year to ensure it adapts to the dynamic and rapidly M MITIE Group culture and management framework growing structures and operations within the Group.
Further enhancements will be undertaken over the coming year to ensure The Board and senior management are responsible for that the Groups acquisitions also operate within this framework maintaining and developing a culture of integrity, competence, and that the framework continues to provide the appropriate fairness and responsibility throughout the Group.
The Board sets level of information to management and the Board.
the framework within which this culture flows down through the organisation to the individual trading businesses who operate their The current framework includes the completion, review and own systems of internal control.
monitoring of risk reporting systems at an operating business level.
These systems include consideration of particular risks, how they In addition to the cultural framework established by the Board and could impact upon the business, and what MITIE can do to senior management, the Group Head Office offers specialist mitigate those risks.
Similar processes are followed at both resource support, including, amongst others, legal, health and divisional and Group level to ensure that wider strategic risks are safety, quality, IT, insurance, human resources and finance.
So that this information is reported to the Board in The level of support offered is constantly under review and, where an effective manner, risks are categorised to draw out the necessary, has been enhanced during the year to help develop Group-wide and high level risks.
This information is consolidated and strengthen the Groups overall internal control environment.
All into the Groups Risk Register and regularly reviewed by the the principal divisions in the Group have a similar level of specialist MITIE Group PLC Board.
resource, which works closely with the Group specialists, but which is dedicated to the particular needs and circumstances of that We categorise the risks identified into strategic, financial, division.
These support structures help ensure synergy between the commercial, compliance, operational, regulatory and reputation Group, divisions and ultimately each subsidiary company.
C Communication The types of risk that are evaluated include: Throughout the Group there are systems in place for reporting key Acquisition errors: performance and risk related information to the Board and Loss of market share: Executive Committee alongside the reporting of operating results Availability of cash to meet business needs: against budget.
Key operational performance indicators are also Credit risks: continuously monitored by the Executive Directors and senior Self insurance risk: management as described in the Executive Committee section Systems failure: of this statement.
Reputation risks: Customer price pressure: To ensure effective communication, reporting systems include Contract dispute: Company, divisional and regional meetings.
Structures are in Loss of key employees: place to ensure concerns and issues are communicated from the TUPE risks: bottom to the top of the Group and vice versa.
An additional tool Major health and safety incident: used to aid communication in the Group is the Groups Intranet Environmental incident: which has been enhanced and re-launched during the year.
This Shortage of skilled labour force: allows all employees throughout the Group to access key Various regulatory non-compliance issues: information about the Group as well as Group policies, Onerous contracts.
Each of the risks is analysed and a strategy is put in place to IIndividual company controls minimise or mitigate the risk.
Each operating company has authority to manage their P Performance measurement business within delegated levels of authority and Group policies, procedures and guidelines.
These are set with the Our approach to the measurement of our business performance aim of balancing Group-wide synergy and control with the is straightforward.
We look at a small number of financial key autonomy management requires to develop and manage performance indicators including growth in revenues, both the business successfully.
organic and acquired, net profit, net profit margin and cash.
We measure success by how a business is growing, the profitability The Board of each operating company is required to complete of each business unit and cash conversion.
an annual Statement of Internal Control.
To do this, each company Board needs to consider formally its own system of The Internal Audit and Risk Management Department also internal control with specific reference to areas of judgement, undertakes an annual programme of risk-focused operational compliance with regulatory and Group requirements, the and financial reviews to consider the internal control environment, accuracy of its financial information and risks to its operations.
key areas of risk to the Group and risk mitigating strategies.
Recommendations and conclusions are reported to the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance Director and both the Executive and Audit Committee for their consideration and action where necessary.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit and Risk Management Department is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Committee does this by considering, amongst other things, reports submitted to each Committee meeting to update its members on its activities.
Detailed presentations to the Committee are also made, on request, by this department covering various aspects of the system of internal control and significant findings of reviews undertaken.
C Compliance with the Combined Code The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the exception that the Board has not consisted of at least an equal number of Independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
