MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 62 Corporate Governance Introduction Antofagasta plc has an uncommon ownership structure for a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, an entity in which members of the Luksic family are interested, controls 60.65% of the ordinary share capital and 94.12% of the preference share capital of the Company through two investment vehicles, Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment.
Aureberg Establishment, which is controlled by Antofagastas Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic, holds 4.26% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
A Relationship Agreement was entered into between the Company and the major shareholder in 1998 which requires, inter alia, transactions between any member of the Group and the major shareholder to be at arms length terms and on terms approved by the independent Directors.
While incorporated in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Groups businesses, which comprise mining, transport and water distribution, are nearly all located in Chile, the largest copper-producing country in the world.
Antofagastas Board is committed to managing the operations of the Group with a view to maximising value for all shareholders.
The Board currently has nine members, comprising an Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Two of the nine Directors including the Chairman are members of the Luksic family.
Seven of the Directors, including the Chairman, are based in Chile, where the Groups operations are principally located: one Director is based in the United Kingdom, where the Company is incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange: and one Director is based in the United States.
The day-to-day operations of the Group are carried on through the boards of each division of the Group, Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, Antofagasta Railway Company plc FCAB railway and other transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution.
Each division is headed by a chief executive officer who reports to his divisional board and the Chairman of the Group.
The Antofagasta Board oversees these divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
In its consideration of Corporate Governance matters, the Board is mindful of the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
However, given the ownership structure and asset base of the Group, the Board believes that full adherence to the Combined Code is not practicable.
Nevertheless, the Board considers that its structure and balance as set out in more detail below under the heading Directors provide an appropriate basis for ensuring its effectiveness and the protection of the interests of all shareholders in the Company.
The Board describes below how it applied the corporate governance principles contained in the Combined Code during 2006.
Two areas where the Company did not comply with the detailed Combined Code provisions are set out at the end of this report under the heading Statement of Compliance with the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code.
Directors The Board The Directors collectively have responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
The Board comprises an Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board, which met eight times during 2006, is responsible for: providing leadership: setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies: ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives: reviewing the Groups performance: and overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 63 The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the Board to act as a single team by obtaining consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, decisions will be taken by majority.
The agenda for Board meetings are set by the Chairman in consultation with the other Directors.
Responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated to the senior management of the Group.
Accordingly, the boards of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, the Antofagasta Railway Company plc railway and other transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution meet monthly to consider strategic, operational and risk management issues in more detail.
There is substantial overlap between membership of the Board of Antofagasta plc and these three divisional boards.
The chief executive officer of each division reports to his divisional board and the Chairman of the Group, and the Board oversees these divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing the performance of management.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting goals and objectives and also monitor the reporting of performance, through the activities of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee respectively.
Directors who served during 2006 are set out on page 2.
There were two changes to the membership of the Board during 2006.
On 29 September 2006 Mr. P J Adeane retired as a Non-Executive Director.
On the same date, Mr. W M Hayes was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director.
The recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director is Mr. C H Bailey, who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr. G S Menendez is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board does not have a Director formally designated as Chief Executive.
Chairman and Chief Executive Mr. J-P Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of a full-time Executive Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that conflict with this role.
As explained above, the Group does not have a Board member who is designated as Chief Executive.
Mr. Marcelo Awad is chief executive officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. : Mr. Miguel Sepulveda is chief executive officer of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc: and Mr. Marco Kutulas is the chief executive officer of Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
The Board believes that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power by Mr. J-P Luksic having executive responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong presence of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the structure of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees designed to devolve away from the Chairman responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board responsibility, and the delegation of management responsibility to the chief executive officer of each division.
Board balance and independence The Board considers six of its eight Non-Executive Directors to be independent Mr. C H Bailey, Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. D E Yarur, Mr. J W Ambrus, Mr. J G Claro and Mr. W M Hayes.
The Board is satisfied that this balance limits the scope for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards decision-making.
The Report of the Directors sets out biographical details of each Director and identifies those Directors standing for re-election on pages 59 and 60.
Mr. Yarur, Mr. Ambrus, Mr. Claro and Mr. Hayes meet the independence criteria set out in Combined Code provision A3.1 and the Board is satisfied as to their independence.
The Board is satisfied that Mr. Bailey remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than nine years, since he does not receive any other remuneration from the Company other than Non-Executive Directors fees, nor does he have any other relationships with the Company or its majority shareholder.
The Board is also satisfied that Mr. Menendez remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has also served on the Board for more than nine years and notwithstanding that he is a non-executive director of Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also controlled by the Luksic family and Banco fide Chile, part of the Quienco Group.
This is because he does not receive any remuneration from the Group other than in a Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 63 MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 64 Corporate Governance continued Non-Executive capacity.
His position in the Quienco group is also solely as a non-executive director.
The Board considers that Mr. Baileys and Mr. Menendezs length of service is of considerable benefit to the Board given their wealth of knowledge and experience of the Group and of Latin America and the mining industry, and therefore proposes both for re-election.
The Board does not consider Mr. R F Jara or Mr. G A Luksic to be independent.
Mr. Jara provides advisory services to the Group, as explained in the Report on Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 70 and 71.
Mr. G A Luksic is the brother of Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
Mr. G A Luksic is chairman of Quienco S. A. and Madeco S. A. and a director of Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Mr. J-P Luksic and Mr. Menendez are also non-executive directors of Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta, Quienco is also controlled by the Luksic family.
The Board also did not consider Mr. P J Adeane, who retired on 29 September 2006, to be independent as he had been employed by the Group as an Executive Director until he became a Non-Executive in 2005.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. C H Bailey and Mr. R F Jara.
As explained above, Mr. Bailey and Mr. Menendez are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the process for new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In fulfilling these responsibilities, the Nomination Committee consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary and, in any case, at least once a year.
Its terms of reference are available from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which of the potential candidates would most benefit the Board.
It considers the potential candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining industry in Latin America, capital markets and the regulatory environment and that he has sufficient time to devote to the role.
As explained above, Mr. W M Hayes was appointed to the Board during 2006.
This appointment was considered by the Nomination Committee and then by the Board, applying the criteria set out above.
As the Nomination Committee and the Board believed that it was able to identify an appropriate candidate through its knowledge of the appropriate industrial and geographical sectors, advertising the post or using a search agency was considered to be unnecessary.
The Chairman ensures that new Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
In the case of Mr. W M Hayes, this included a detailed briefing about the Group and its operations, information on his duties and responsibilities as a director of a UK-listed company, meetings with members of senior management and advisors, and visits to operational sites.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company.
These require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
These letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 65 Information and professional development The Directors receive information for review ahead of each Board or Committee Meeting.
In addition, they receive regular reports and forecasts for the Group and each significant operation to ensure that they remain properly briefed about the performance and financial position of the Group throughout the year.
All Directors have access to management and to such further information as is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, all Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
The Company also provides Directors with the necessary resources to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes affecting the Group as a whole.
The Directors based outside of Chile visit the country regularly and at least once a year, and the Directors based outside the United Kingdom also regularly visit this country, again at least once a year.
Group management in the United Kingdom and Chile is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Company secretarial advice is provided by Petershill Secretaries Limited.
Performance evaluation The Board periodically considers its performance and effectiveness.
A performance evaluation was conducted during 2006 by Mr. G S Menendez, with the assistance of senior management, covering the Board, its committees and its individual members.
Mr. C H Bailey, as the senior independent Non-Executive Director was responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.
The results were discussed with the Chairman and considered by the Board and were taken into account in the decision to recommend re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting during 2007.
The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role.
Re-election Each Director is elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following his first appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that not less than one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation each year and that each Director is re-elected at least once every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election in accordance with provision A7.2 of the Combined Code.
The Directors retiring and standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting are Mr. W M Hayes, Mr. D E Yarur, Mr. G S Menendez and Mr. C H Bailey.
Biographical details of these Directors are set out in the Report of the Directors on pages 59 and 60.
The Chairman confirms that the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues to be effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 65 MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 66 Corporate Governance continued Directors attendance at meetings in 2006 The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2006, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible J-P Luksic 8 8 C H Bailey 78442233 G S Menendez 88442233 1 P J Adeane 7 8 R F Jara 8 8 2 2 D E Yarur 4834 23 G A Luksic 6 8 J W Ambrus 7 8 J G Claro 8 8 2 W M Hayes 1 1 1 Mr. P J Adeane retired as a Director on 29 September 2006.
2 Mr. W M Hayes was appointed as a Director on 29 September 2006.
All Directors in office at the time of the annual general meeting in June 2006 attended that meeting.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
Remuneration The membership of the Remuneration Committee, a statement of the Companys policy on remuneration, and the remuneration details and shareholding interests of each Director are contained in the Report on Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 70 to 73.
Accountability and Audit Financial reporting The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
In the case of the Groups IFRS financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the international Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 67 In the case of the Companys UK GAAP financial statements, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors and the Report on Remuneration and Related Matters which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Boards statement on going concern is included in the Financial Review on page 33.
Internal control The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the 2006 financial year to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work of internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not required.
Corporate social responsibility The Board takes into account the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and is responsible for the relevant policies of the Group.
Through the Groups risk management processes described under Internal Control above, key issues of social responsibility are identified and assessed.
More information on corporate social responsibility is given on pages 38 to 57 of the Annual Report.
Whistleblowing procedures The Audit Committee, whose other functions are described below, is responsible for reviewing arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
An Ethics Code is in place across the Group, which includes a procedure to Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 67 MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 68 Corporate Governance continued enable employees to raise concerns, anonymously if necessary.
An Ethics Committee is responsible for implementing, developing and updating the Ethics Code and investigating any allegations of impropriety.
The Ethics Committee reports directly to the Audit Committee, which considered the results of its work and the operation of the Ethics Code together with its annual review of the effectiveness of internal control.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee currently comprises Mr. C H Bailey Chairman, Mr. G S Menendez and Mr. D E Yarur, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
All three members are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice and normally four times a year with the external auditors in attendance.
The Audit Committees purpose is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control matters.
In particular, it reviews the scope and nature of the audit and issues arising from it and is responsible for ensuring the independence of the external auditors including their objectivity and effectiveness, monitoring the provision of any non-audit services and for making recommendations to the Board for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
It reviews the internal control and risk assessment procedures adopted by the Group described in the section under the heading Internal Controls above.
It also monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Directors statements on internal controls and reviews the going concern basis prior to its endorsement by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employees and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
The Companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have provided non-audit services to the Company, which amounted to US$52,000.
This comprised the provision of services relating to tax compliance, implementation advice regarding IAS 32 39 on financial instruments and other consultancy services.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditors are not in any way impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
The Audit Committee has also considered the effectiveness of the external audit function through the year through meetings with Deloitte & Touche LLP, a review of their audit plan and a consideration of the results of work performed by the external auditors prior to release of the interim and full year results.
Relations with Shareholders Directors and senior management regularly meet with institutional shareholders and analysts in the United Kingdom, Europe, Chile and the United States.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director, Mr. C H Bailey, also attends a number of meetings with major shareholders during the year.
Other Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
These meetings ensure that the Board is able to develop an understanding of the views of several of the Companys major investors.
The Company carries out a formal programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group after the announcement of the interim and full year results.
In addition, quarterly production figures and financial results are published for the mining, transport and water divisions.
Copies of these results and production announcements, presentations and other press releases issued by the Company are available on its website.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAC RF62790 E 13 4 07 15:25 Page 69 The Companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders and the Board of Directors encourages their attendance.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of the resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
Statement of Compliance with the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code As explained above, the Company complied with the detailed code provisions contained in the Combined Code throughout 2006 except as follows: the Board does not have a separately identified Chief Executive and there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive at Board level provision A2.1.
As explained above, the Group has separate chief executives for its mining, transport and water distribution divisions who report to their respective divisional boards and the Chairman of the Group.
The Board considers that its predominantly non-executive composition combined with the delegation of management responsibility to the chief executive officer of each division achieves an appropriate balance and prevents a concentration of power by its Executive Chairman: and performance related pay measures did not apply to Board members provision B.
The Board considers this appropriate given its predominantly Non-Executive composition and the role of the only Executive Director, who is a member of the controlling family, as Chairman of the Board.
Performance related bonuses are paid to senior management in the Group based on a combination of personal, divisional and Group performance assessed against targets set at the start of each year.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 69
