Corporate governance statement 70252 3 Directors 1 3 07 12:39 Page 37 Governance framework The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate governance and is committed to managing the Groups affairs in accordance with the principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 the Code.
A summary of how the Company has applied the principles of the Code is set out below.
The Board has considered the provisions of the Code and considers that it was substantially in compliance throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, save in respect of Code provision A.
3 which requires that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Following the Companys entry into the FTSE 350 during 2005, which took it out of the Codes smaller company exemption, the Board decided, following a recommendation of the nominations committee, that the existing size and balance of the Board was satisfactory and that increasing the number of independent non-executive directors would not benefit the Group.
Directors The Board currently comprises an executive chairman, three further executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The senior independent director is Bernard Asher.
All of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Jack Lovell, are considered by the Board and under the Code to be independent.
Jack Lovell will be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming annual general meeting and will not be standing for re-election.
Following his retirement, the Board will comply with Code provision A.
The Board has a separate chairman and chief executive in line with the Code provision A.
John Morgan as executive chairman takes responsibility for leading the Board and ensuring that it functions effectively and for the overall strategy of the Group whilst Paul Smith as chief executive is responsible for managing the business and critically assessing Group strategy.
The Board has set out and agreed a schedule that details their individual roles and responsibilities.
The Board considers that the balance of relevant experience amongst the various Board members enables it to exercise effective leadership and control of the Group.
It also ensures that the decision making process cannot be dominated by any individual or small group of individuals.
An executive director may be released to serve as a non-executive director elsewhere provided that the Board is satisfied that the time commitment of such an appointment will not conflict with his duties to the Company.
During the year, the executive chairman assumed a new appointment as non-executive director of Newfound N. V. The articles of association of the Company require all directors to submit for election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting after his or her appointment and to re-election thereafter at least every three years.
Bernard Asher is retiring by rotation and will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Bernard Asher has served on the Board for nine years and in accordance with Code provision A.
7.2 will in future be subject to annual re-election.
The extension of his term of office was subject to rigorous review and the Board is satisfied that he retains his independence of character and judgement and continues to demonstrate his commitment and contribution to the Board.
Board effectiveness Eight scheduled meetings of the Board were held during the year, as well as an away day for review of the Groups strategy and direction.
The key purposes of the scheduled meetings were to review all significant aspects of the Groups activities, supervise the executive management and to make decisions in relation to those matters that are specifically reserved to the Board.
There is a formal schedule of these matters, which includes the approval of the Groups strategic plans, annual budget, significant capital expenditure and investment proposals, major projects, acquisitions and disposals, internal control arrangements and annual and interim results.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board committees described below and under the Groups delegated authorities.
A formal agenda for each meeting is agreed with the chairman and is circulated well in advance of the meeting to allow time for proper consideration, together with relevant papers including key strategic, operational and financial information.
37 Corporate governance statement 70252 3 Directors 1 3 07 12:39 Page 38 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 Attendance of individual directors during 2006 at scheduled Board meetings and at meetings of the remuneration, audit and nominations committees is set out below: Remuneration Audit Nominations Name of director Board committee committee committee Total no.
of meetings 8 5 3 1 John Morgan 8 - - 1 Paul Smith 8 - - - David Mulligan 8 - - - Paul Whitmore 8 - - - Bernard Asher 7 5 3 1 Gill Barr 8 5 3 1 Jon Walden 7 5 3 1 Jack Lovell 7 - - - Non-attendance by directors at meetings was due to conflicting commitments and in each case was previously agreed with the chairman.
Professional development and Board evaluation The Company provides training facilities for directors on first appointment and subsequently as necessary.
The executive directors have been participating in a modular development programme being run for senior executives.
In addition, the Board receives regular presentations and briefings from the managing directors of the Groups divisions and the non-executive directors knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations is further developed through visits to the divisions operational sites.
There are agreed procedures by which directors are able to take independent professional advice, at the expense of the Company, on matters relating to their duties.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
An evaluation was carried out of the Boards performance, and that of its committees and individual directors, during the year.
This involved the chairman holding one-to-one performance evaluation meetings with each director, based on an agenda setting out identified assessment areas to form the framework for the discussions.
The assessment areas focussed on the effectiveness of the Board and scheduled Board and committee meetings and, in relation to individual directors, their continued contribution and commitment to the role.
The individual evaluation of the chairman was carried out by the senior non-executive director.
The chairman summarised the main themes and comments arising from the meetings at a subsequent Board meeting and a number of actions were agreed.
Relations with shareholders The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional shareholders whenever possible and encourages all shareholders to use the annual general meeting as an opportunity for effective communication with the Company.
The executive directors undertake a programme of communication with institutional shareholders at regular intervals and also meet with analysts covering the construction industry.
Written feedback from all these meetings is distributed to all members of the Board.
The senior non-executive director meets with major shareholders to listen to their views and the other non-executive directors are available to do so if requested.
Details of proxy votes submitted for all resolutions at general meetings, including proxy directions to withhold votes, are distributed at the meeting.
They are also available on the Companys website on the day before the meeting and after the meeting.
38 Corporate governance statement 70252 3 Directors 1 3 07 12:39 Page 39 Board committees The Board has established three committees namely remuneration, nominations and audit.
Remuneration committee The members of the remuneration committee during 2006 were Gill Barr chair, Bernard Asher and Jon Walden.
The remuneration committee's terms of reference are available for review on request and on the Company's website under the investor relations section.
Five meetings were held in the year to cover all elements of the directors' remuneration.
A report to shareholders on directors' remuneration is shown on pages 30 to 36.
Nominations committee The members of the nominations committee during 2006 were John Morgan chair, Bernard Asher, Jon Walden and Gill Barr.
The terms of reference for the committee establish a framework through which it can review the balance and effectiveness of the Board to ensure suitable candidates are identified and recommended for appointment to the Board and the various Board committees.
These terms of reference are available for review on request and on the Company's website.
As referred to above, the nominations committee met once during the year to review the structure, size and composition of the Board, particularly in light of the Companys non-compliance with Code provision A.
3 and also Jack Lovells decision to retire from the Board at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Audit committee The members of the audit committee during 2006 were Bernard Asher chair, Gill Barr and Jon Walden.
All committee members are independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of each member of the committee, including financial experience where relevant, are set out on pages 24 to 25.
The Board is satisfied that the committee has the appropriate level of financial experience to fulfil its terms of reference.
The committee met three times during the year, prior to the announcement of the Companys results for 2005 and approval of the annual report, prior to the announcement of its interim statement and before commencement of the audit for 2006.
Senior representatives from the external auditors, the finance director and the Groups head of audit and assurance were invited to attend each of these meetings.
The committee ensured, however, that it had the opportunity after each meeting to meet privately with the external auditors.
The main purpose of the meetings was to review the scope and results of the audit and the effectiveness of the external audit process, to monitor the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements and to discuss with the external auditors their overall work plan for the forthcoming audit.
In addition, the committee is responsible for reviewing the Company's internal financial controls and internal audit activities and it received and reviewed at the meetings reports of the internal audit activity during the year and the internal audit plan for 2007.
The committee also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy containing arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
The chairman of the audit committee reports to the full Board on matters of significance arising at meetings of the committee.
The audit committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors and monitoring the objectivity and independence of the auditors.
The external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have confirmed to the committee that they have policies and safeguards in place to ensure that they are independent within the meaning of all regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
In particular, they have rotated key audit principals to the extent required by the ICAEWs Additional Guidance on Independence for Auditors.
A policy is in place to enable the committee to monitor the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services.
This provides that any proposals to engage the auditors for services, where the fees for such services would exceed either an absolute limit or a specified proportion of the audit fee, should be referred to the committee for approval.
The fees for non-audit services carried out by Deloitte & Touche LLP during the year are set out in note 2 to the accounts on page 50.
In aggregate these represented approximately 5% of the audit fee.
The committee has reviewed the nature of the work and level of fees for non-audit services provided by the external auditors and concluded that this has not affected their objectivity or the independence of the audit.
39 Corporate governance statement 70252 4 Accounts 5 3 07 17:25 Page 40 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 Internal control statement The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve certain business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control, which includes financial, operational and compliance controls, is based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing risks, and accords with the guidance in the Turnbull Report and was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: Risk management The Board has reserved to itself specific responsibility for the formulation of the risk management strategy of the Group.
A formal process is in place through which the Group identifies the significant risks attached to its strategic objectives, confirms the control strategy for each risk and identifies the appropriate early warning mechanisms and actions required.
Internal control and risk management systems are embedded in the operations of the divisions.
A consolidated report of each of the divisional risk reviews together with risks identified at Group level are compiled in a Group risk register which is re-appraised and updated twice yearly.
The principal risks identified as facing the Group are highlighted in the Business Review on pages 4 and 5.
Financial information The Board recognises that an essential part of the responsibility for running a business is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of liabilities and the accurate reporting of profits.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which is regularly reviewed and updated together with a management reporting system established in each division for monthly reporting to the Board.
Investment and capital expenditure There are clear policies, detailed procedures and defined levels of authority in relation to investment, capital expenditure, significant cost commitments and asset disposals with approvals required from the Board, the executive directors or divisional boards depending on the value or nature of the investment or contract.
Tenders and project selection Individual tenders or projects are subject to detailed review with approvals required at relevant levels at various stages from commencement of the bidding process through to contract award.
Controls over central functions A number of the Group's key functions including treasury and insurance are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions have detailed policies and procedures.
Health and safety and environment Monthly reporting to the Board includes a report on the Groups performance in relation to health and safety matters and environmental compliance.
Audit and assurance The Group head of audit and assurance reports to the chief executive and audit committee and is responsible for managing the audit and assurance function and assisting with risk management practices.
The internal audit and assurance programme during the year included reviews of the operations of key business and financial controls across the Group, including those operated centrally.
The results of these reviews are presented to the audit committee, where necessary with recommendations to address identified operational weaknesses, and such recommendations are followed up by subsequent reviews.
The Group head of audit and assurance also oversees a rolling programme of peer group reviews, which assist in the professional development of the individual staff concerned while at the same time providing a mechanism for the cross fertilisation of ideas and best practice throughout the Group.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2006 and for the period to the date of this report.
The process included a formal review conducted by the Board of the Group risk register, referred to under risk management above, as well as a review of the results of the internal audit work and the effectiveness of the process.
