CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Combined Code The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and compliance with the principles in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the Code.
For the year in review the board has complied with the Code.
Board composition The board currently comprises seven members of whom five are non executive.
There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, who is responsible for the effective operation of the board and the Chief Executive, Alan White, who is responsible for the groups operational performance.
The five non executive directors comprise the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE, both of whom are not regarded by the board as being independent under the provisions of the Combined Code, and Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath and John McGuire all of whom are considered by the board to be independent.
The senior independent non executive director is Ivan Fallon.
Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in October 1994.
Notwithstanding that his length of service exceeds a period that beyond which the Code suggests that his independence may be affected, the board, nonetheless, regards Ivan Fallon to be independent and that his broad-based commercial experience, coupled with his extensive business specific knowledge gained during his eleven years as a non executive director and his general commercial acumen, are extremely beneficial to the board.
The board had a majority of independent non executive directors during the year.
It is considered that the composition of the board during the year had the necessary balance of skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
All directors joining the board are required to submit themselves for election at the next following annual general meeting.
They are subject to re-election every third year thereafter.
All non executive directors have written letters of appointment.
These letters of appointment stipulate three-year renewable terms of office, and are subject to early termination provisions, for example allowing earlier termination without compensation in the event a director is not re-elected upon retirement by rotation in accordance with the articles.
In line with the Code all non executive directors who have served for nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
As such, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Board operation An effective board of directors leads and controls the group.
The members of the board are shown on page 16 of this report.
The board met 7 times during the year.
Directors attendance at board meetings was as follows: Attendance Apologies Attendance Apologies Attendance Apologies Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 7 0 Jim Martin resigned July 05 3 0 Ivan Fallon 7 0 Alan White 7 0 Lord Stone of Blackheath 7 0 Nigel Alliance OBE 6 1 Dean Moore 7 0 John McGuire 7 0 The board is collectively responsible for providing effective leadership and promoting the success of the group.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval a copy of which is available on the companys website, www.
co. uk which includes decisions on all major strategic issues, approval of financial statements, capital and operating expenditure, investment, treasury and dividend policy, overseeing the groups risk control procedures, board membership and that of its committees.
Currently, at least one of its meetings in each year held over two days is entirely devoted to the development and review of corporate strategy.
The board delegates the day-to-day management of the group to the J D Williams & Company Limited operational board.
Detailed briefing papers including management accounts, broker analyses and shareholder analyses are circulated to each director not less than seven days prior to each board meeting.
Procedures are in place to enable all directors to obtain independent professional advice in respect of their fiduciary duties and obligations and all board members have full and direct access to the company secretary, who attends all board and committee meetings and is charged with providing advice to the board on matters of corporate governance and ensuring the timely provision of information.
Since the last report the board has undertaken a formal appraisal of its own performance, that of the Chairman and that of its committees.
The process consisted of individual assessment by detailed questionnaire completed by all directors.
The results were compiled by the company secretary for review by the Chairman and then joint review by the board.
The performance of the Chairman was appraised by the senior non executive director in consultation with the other board members.
The Chief Executives performance was appraised by the Chairman and the non executive directors.
The Finance Director the only other executive director on the board was subject to the same scrutiny.
Committee structure The board has delegated specific authorities to a number of sub committees to deal with specific aspects of management and control of the group.
All of these committees meet regularly and have formal written terms of reference which are available for inspection on 22 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT request and are available on the companys website.
The minutes of the meetings of these committees are circulated to all board directors in advance of the board meeting at which they are ratified.
The following committees of the board have been established: Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee The audit and remuneration committees consist wholly of independent non executive directors.
Audit committee The audit committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is John McGuire.
The other members are Ivan Fallon and Lord Stone of Blackheath.
All members of the audit committee are regarded as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee met three times in the year.
Committee attendance was as follows: Attendance Apologies Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 0 John McGuire 3 0 Ivan Fallon 3 0 The audit committee considers the nature and scope of the audit process both internal and external and its effectiveness.
The committee reviews and approves the internal audit programme, meets with the external auditors and considers the annual and interim financial statements before submission to the board.
The committee also reviews the groups system of internal control and reports its findings twice yearly to the board.
The committee holds an away day each year, which is a meeting to which certain executives and senior employees of the group are invited, but otherwise the meeting is not attended by executive directors or the chairman.
The committee meets with the external auditors, in the absence of the executive directors, at least twice a year.
As stated above, part of the role of the audit committee is to review the independence of the companys auditors.
The companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP have provided non-audit services to the company in the form of tax advice.
The audit committee is aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
To address this concern raised by the audit committee, the remuneration committee seeks advice on executive remuneration issues, where appropriate, from independent advisors who do not provide the group with other services further details are set out in the remuneration report on page 25.
Some due diligence and other corporate strategic work is handled by other external advisors.
The audit committee has concluded that the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are independent.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is Ivan Fallon.
The other members are Lord Stone of Blackheath and John McGuire.
The remuneration committee met three times this year.
Members attendance was as follows: Attendance Apologies Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 0 John McGuire 3 0 Ivan Fallon 3 0 The purpose of this committee is to review and formulate the companys remuneration policy and consider how the company is applying the principles of the Code in respect of directors remuneration.
Further details are set out in the remuneration report on pages 25 to 33 which will be put to an advisory vote by the members at the companys annual general meeting.
Nominations committee The nominations committee is chaired by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other members are currently Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon and John McGuire.
The formal terms of reference for this committee require it to make recommendations to the board for appointments of directors including directors of the operating company board J. D. Williams & Company Limited and other senior executive staff.
Where appropriate, the chief executive and company secretary attend meetings of the nominations committee.
Appointments to the board are made on merit, against objective criteria, taking into account the skills and experience required.
Where appropriate, external search consultants are enlisted.
The company secretary is responsible for the induction of new directors.
New directors are provided with a comprehensive pack of information including terms of reference, information regarding the business and guidance on their roles and duties as directors and meetings site visits with key employee contacts are arranged as appropriate.
The nominations committee had no occasion to meet this year.
N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Internal control The directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control, to give them reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
There are, of course, inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against loss or failure.
The board continues to operate a formal risk management process throughout the group.
A cyclical programme of assessments of operational, financial and other business risks has been implemented at each principal operating subsidiary of the group each cycle comprising at least two reviews annually, which takes into account the internal controls that exist to mitigate the impact of those risks.
Any significant residual risks are then evaluated and action plans to further reduce their impact are initiated and monitored where necessary.
Thirteen such cycles have so far been carried out.
A risk management committee, which met three times last year, oversees the above process and reports progress to the audit committee, which thereafter reports to the board and draws all appropriate matters to its attention.
The risk committee, together with the audit committee, is also responsible for ensuring that the principles of sound risk management and effective internal control are fully embedded within the organisation, a process which the board has satisfied itself has continued to operate during the year.
In pursuance of the above, the board of directors through the audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review.
As well as receiving regular reports from the risk management committee described above, the board through the audit committee discusses with the external auditors the results of their work and any resulting internal control issues, and also reviews the work carried out by the internal audit department, including monitoring the implementation of actions arising from previous audits.
The internal audit function is independent of management and the head of the function has direct access to the chief executive and the chairman of the audit committee.
Internal audit plans are discussed and agreed annually between the head of internal audit and the audit committee.
Appropriate internal financial controls are operated throughout the group, some of which have already been referred to in this statement.
Other examples include the existence of a well defined group organisation structure, with clear lines of responsibility and explicit authority delegated to divisional boards and executive management, and a comprehensive financial reporting system which communicates plans, budgets and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
Relations with investors The company believes in the importance of good communications with shareholders, both institutional and individual investors.
Institutional investors, fund managers and analysts are kept informed of the companys overall strategy through regular meetings and roadshows.
All non executive directors are kept informed of shareholders views through detailed feedback and analysts reports tabled at each board meeting.
The senior independent director is available to meet with, and understand, the views of major shareholders.
In January 2006 a group comprising of around 40 analysts and institutional shareholders attended an Open Day presentation at the companys offices in Manchester.
The company aims to ensure that all shareholders have full and timely access to information it discloses and that shareholders have opportunities to meet with management through ad hoc and one-to-one meetings at least twice a year at the announcement of results and also at events such as the Open Day and constructive use of the AGM.
As well as being provided with a copy of our annual report and results announcements, our website provides shareholders with comprehensive and accessible information about the group.
Compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 25 February 2006, the group has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
Details of directors contract terms are shown in the remuneration report on page 29.
24 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006
