Corporate Governance Combined Code compliance The Group has complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board of Directors The Board is responsible for major policy decisions whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees and officers including the Chief Executive.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, including significant items of capital expenditure, investments, treasury and dividend policy.
The Board is responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts of each half years anticipated results are revised and reviewed monthly.
Certain other important matters are subject to monthly reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including treasury operations and capital expenditure.
The Board held nine formal meetings during the year.
All directors were present at all nine meetings, with the exception of Mr Varley, Mr Netherton, Mr Brookes and Mrs Cross who each attended eight meetings, and Mr Jones who attended seven meetings.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
Board papers including reports from the Chief Executive and Finance, Property and Product Directors are circulated in advance of each Board meeting.
There is a regular flow of written and verbal information between all directors irrespective of the timing of meetings.
Induction is provided to new appointees to provide an introduction to all major areas of the business, and training is provided where a need is identified or training requested.
The Board includes five independent non-executive directors who bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group.
Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting, or at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Meetings of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present are held at least annually, both with and without the Chairman.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these Committees is chaired by a different director and has written terms of reference which are available for inspection on the Companys website or on request.
Authority for day to day management of the Group is delegated to other committees.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Board.
Audit Committee The Committee consists of five independent non-executive directors including the senior non-executive director and at least one member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with external auditors and senior management where appropriate.
The Committee considers financial reporting and reviews the Groups accounting policies and annual statements.
In particular, any major accounting issues of a subjective nature are discussed by the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
Four meetings were held during the year and all were fully attended with the exception of one which Mr Netherton was unable to attend and one which Mr Brookes was unable to attend.
15 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of five independent non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director.
The Committee determines the remuneration of the executive directors and reviews that of senior management.
A Remuneration Report is included in this Annual Report.
Six meetings were held during the year and all were fully attended, with the exception of one meeting which Mrs Cross was unable to attend.
Nomination Committee The Committee consists of the Company Chairman and five independent non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director.
The Committee meets as required to fulfil its duties of reviewing the Board structure and composition and identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise.
Three meetings were held during the year and all were fully attended, with the exception of one meeting which Mr Brookes was unable to attend.
External consultants are used to assist in identifying suitable candidates, based on a written specification for each appointment.
The Chairman, together with other committee members, prepares a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Board.
The final candidate is then subject to formal nomination by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Chairman The Company maintains a division of responsibilities between the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board to ensure that the Group has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy: that there is a Chief Executive with a team of executive directors able to implement the strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives: and to ensure the Group is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate governance.
The current Chairman was an executive director of the Group formerly the Chief Executive with relevant experience in the management of the business.
Consultation was carried out with major shareholders in advance of his appointment to Deputy Chairman in 2001 and Chairman in 2002.
It is intended that he will retire from the Board at this years Annual General Meeting in May and be replaced by the current Deputy Chairman, who is an independent director.
The Chairmans and Deputy Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on page 9.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint on their agreed time commitment to the Company.
Chief Executive The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is required to report at each Board meeting all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
Management delegation The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to day management of the business to operational management drawn from executive directors and other senior management who have responsibility for the respective areas.
The most important management meetings are the weekly NEXT Brand trading and capital expenditure meetings which consider the performance and development of the NEXT Brand through its different distribution channels.
These meetings cover all business aspects of risk management in respect of the NEXT Brand including product, sales, property, warehousing, systems and personnel.
Key performance indicators are monitored daily and weekly.
Performance evaluation The performance of the Board, its non-executive directors and committees was formally evaluated during the year.
The evaluation was conducted by means of a detailed questionnaire completed by all directors.
The results of this questionnaire were compiled by the Company Secretary for review by the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The senior independent non-executive director appraises the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all the directors individually and, together with the Chairman, appraises the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
16 Corporate Governance Risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process and has delegated responsibility for its implementation to the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward.
The Board confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control covering financial, operational, compliance and other controls and risk management.
This includes identifying and evaluating key risks, determining control strategies for these risks and considering how they may impact on the achievement of the business objectives.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous process and has been considered by the Board on a regular basis during the year.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business.
During the year the Board addressed the business risks which had been identified as key, taking into account any changes in circumstances over the period.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is appropriate to the size and business risks of the Group.
The Board considers that the Groups management structure and timely and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas of concern.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct are maintained in respect of specific major risk areas and business processes.
Through these measures the management of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board will continue to enhance risk management and internal control wherever practical.
External auditors Ernst & Young LLP have reported to the Audit Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee has reviewed this statement and concurs with its conclusion.
In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, the Board has established policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
As a result of either regulatory requirements or their existing knowledge of the Group, the Groups auditors are in some cases able to provide certain services more effectively than other parties.
In other circumstances, assignments are subject to independent tender, and decisions on the allocation of work are made on the basis of competence and cost-effectiveness.
The Audit Committee reviews details of audit and non-audit fees at least annually in conjunction with the above policies and approves in advance any significant non-audit services to be provided.
Personal use of company assets The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed that there has been no improper personal use of company assets by directors or other employees.
Policies are in place to ensure proper approval procedures are applied to expense claims and that these are in accordance with service agreements.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the level of benefits in kind provided to executive directors.
Relations with shareholders The Board acknowledges that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report and Accounts, yearly and half yearly announcements and regular trading updates to the Stock Exchange.
Full year, interim and other public statement announcements are presented in a consistent format with a particular focus on making the presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as possible.
This information is also made publicly available via the Companys website.
17 Corporate Governance All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual and interim results presentations, at which executive and non-executive directors are present.
In addition, non-executive directors may attend other meetings with shareholders on request.
Shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through the inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the position of the Company and the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The directors report that having reviewed current performance and forecasts they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
