N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:46 pm Page 29 Corporate governance report Compliance Independence of non-executive directors Northern Foods is committed to high standards of corporate The board uses criteria to assist in arriving at its decision that governance.
The company has complied throughout the year with the non-executive directors are independent.
These include: the provisions set out in the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined a deep appreciation of the groups business and activities so that Code.
This section explains how the company has applied the main a thorough evaluation of information received can be made and supporting principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
objective decision making after debate objective challenge of management The board a clear and consistent approach demonstrating that he she has the The board determines the strategic direction of the company and good of the group uppermost in his her behaviour when challenging reviews its operating and financial position.
It has a schedule of others and defending his her viewpoints.
matters specifically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the board itself and which is reviewed annually.
Following the annual review of their independence, all non-executive directors are considered by the board to satisfy these criteria.
C Dyer These matters include approval of the overall group strategy is also considered by the board to be independent based on the and financial policy, membership of the board and its committees, independence criteria noted above, and he continues to demonstrate acquisitions and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
This his independence of thought at all board and committee meetings.
schedule is available on the companys website.
All other matters However, as noted in the Report of the directors, he will retire from relating to the management of the company are delegated to the the board on 6 September 2006. operating board.
Appointments to the board are the responsibility of the full board Chairman and chief executive on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
The board There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the and directors are subject to annual appraisal.
The terms and conditions chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is responsible of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection for leadership of the board, setting the agenda and ensuring its at the companys registered office during normal business hours.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and for effective Induction and training communication with shareholders.
The chairmans other significant There is a comprehensive induction process, tailored to the needs of commitments are detailed in his biography on page 26 and have the individual directors, which is arranged by the company secretary.
not changed during the year.
The chief executive is responsible for This includes meetings with management and external advisors so that operating the business and implementing the boards strategies the new director receives an appreciation of the activities of the group, and is supported in these matters by the operating board.
the key drivers of business performance and the significant current issues.
Visits to operational sites are encouraged.
The training also Directors covers the role of the board and its committees, corporate governance A J Hobson took over as chairman following the retirement of practices and procedures, and the duties, responsibilities and liabilities P H Blackburn at the conclusion of the Annual general meeting on of a director of a public listed company.
At that time C Dyer was appointed deputy chairman and O G Ni-Chionna became senior independent director.
Additional training is arranged, by the company secretary, on a group or individual basis as needs arise: for example when a non-executive Following the appointments of R J S Bell, J K Maiden, and S Barden and director is appointed to a board committee.
the resignation of M T Gribbin as a director, the board now comprises three executive and five non-executive directors.
During the year, in order to assist them in their duties, the directors received presentations on recent and proposed changes to the Under the companys articles of association all directors are subject regulatory framework, directors duties under current and proposed to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
legislation, and financial reporting changes.
The chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation, all the Meetings retiring directors proposed for re-election continue to deliver an The board holds meetings in London and Leeds.
effective performance and to demonstrate commitment to their roles on the board and the board committees.
All directors have unlimited access to information regarding the company, the advice and services of the company secretary, whose appointment and removal requires the approval of the board and, as required, they may obtain external advice at the expense of the company.
Northern Foods plc Corporate governance report 29 N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:46 pm Page 30 Corporate governance report continued The number of meetings of the board and its committees are indicated Appointments to the committees are made on the recommendation below.
The chairman also held other meetings with the non-executive of the nomination committee.
Those to the audit committee are for directors without the executives present.
periods of up to three years, normally extendable by no more than two additional three year periods.
C Dyer remains on the committee The table below shows the number of meetings of the board, audit, due to his expertise and experience and his continued commitment remuneration and nomination committees held during the year, and to the role.
Appointments to the remuneration committee and the number of meetings attended by each director.
With the exception nomination committee are reviewed annually as part of the board of C Dyer, who was unable to attend one meeting of the remuneration performance review.
committee, and D T Nish who was unable to attend one board meeting, all directors attended all meetings held from their appointment or up Audit committee to their retirement.
The main duties of the committee, set out in its terms of reference, are to: Number of meetings held 1 2 3 4 make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration 2 April 2005 to Board Audit Remuneration Nomination of external auditors and to monitor their performance 1 April 2006 84 64 approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual by the external auditors to ensure that the independence of the Directors 5 S Barden 1 1 auditors is not compromised 6 review and advise the board on the companys interim and financial R J S Bell 55 44 22 7 P H Blackburn 33 22 22 statements, its accounting policies and on the control and mitigation of its financial and business risks C Dyer 88 44 65 44 8 M T Gribbin 7 7 review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and A J Hobson 8 8 4 4 2 2 4 4 9 J K Maiden 5 5 of the response of management review and advise the board on the effectiveness of the companys O G Ni-Chionna 8 8 4 4 6 6 4 4 10 D T Nish 65 33 44 22 internal control environment, including its whistleblowing procedures.
P A ODriscoll 8 8 D T Nish took over the chair of the committee on his appointment to Notes the board.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 1 A J Hobson was appointed chairman of the board on 21 July 2005, a position of Scotland and his career includes having been finance director of previously held by P H Blackburn Scottish Power plc and a partner of Price Waterhouse.
He is considered 2 D T Nish was appointed chair of the audit committee on 1 July 2005, a position to have the recent and relevant financial experience required for the previously held by C Dyer 3 O G Ni-Chionna was appointed chair of the remuneration committee on 21 July 2005, provisions of the Combined Code.
The other members of the committee a position previously held by A J Hobson have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by their 4 A J Hobson was appointed chair of the nomination committee on 21 July 2005, biographical summaries on page 26.
The board makes appointments a position previously held by P H Blackburn to the committee.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the 5 S Barden was appointed 30 January 2006 6 R J S Bell was appointed 1 September 2005 committee.
7 P H Blackburn retired 21 July 2005 8 M T Gribbin resigned 28 February 2006 Meetings 9 J K Maiden was appointed 5 September 2005 The committee invites executive directors, management, external and 10 D T Nish was appointed 1 July 2005 internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate for the matters being discussed.
Senior executives below board level are periodically invited to attend board meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
Work of the committee During 2005 06, the audit committee met on four occasions and Board performance evaluation reported its conclusions to the board.
It met privately with the internal The performance of the board, the chairman and its principal committees and external auditors without executives present.
It also met with is evaluated annually.
As in the previous two years this has taken the form executive management and executive directors.
of obtaining completed detailed questionnaires which have been revised this year from all board members, analysing the responses, and providing The committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2005 06 as opportunity for directors to comment on any issues not directly covered follows: by the questionnaire.
The outcome was discussed by the board as a whole, with progress on particular issues from the previous year noted.
Financial reporting O G Ni-Chionna, Senior Independent Director, has analysed responses to During the year the committee reviewed the interim and annual a pro-forma detailed questionnaire designed to evaluate the performance financial statements.
The committee received a report from the of the chairman.
The results of the evaluation were discussed with other external auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues board members when the chairman was not present.
The auditors reports were based on a full audit Annual report and a high level review Interim report Board committees respectively.
Each board committee has written terms of reference which define the role and responsibilities of the committees and are reviewed annually.
The committee has also advised the board on accounting policies, The terms of reference of each committee are available from the disclosure and controls.
It has been pivotal in considering the company secretary or can be viewed on the companys website.
disclosure requirements of IFRS, including IFRS policies and the Restatement of financial information for the 52 weeks ended 2 April 2005 and for the 26 weeks ended 2 October 2004 under IFRS.
30 Corporate governance report Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:46 pm Page 31 Internal controls and risk management The committee also reviews annually the need for succession planning, The committee considers reports at the half year and year end particularly for the chairman, chief executive and other key board from internal audit on the operation of, and issues arising from, the positions, and makes recommendations accordingly.
groups internal control procedures, together with observations from the external auditors.
The committee monitored the effectiveness Relations with shareholders of the groups risk management process, which considers the key The board attaches great importance to maintaining good risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the group and the relationships with all shareholders, who are kept informed of effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the significant company developments.
Presentations are made of the impact of those risks.
interim and preliminary results, briefings are given to analysts, and other meetings to discuss company direction are held with Internal audit institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the board on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective and The chief executive, chief finance officer and, prior to the chief finance to provide independent and objective assurance that the processes officers appointment, the head of finance were closely involved in by which significant risks are identified, assessed and managed investor relations and reported back to the board the views of major are appropriate and effectively applied.
The internal audit plan, shareholders.
Investor meetings are arranged through the companys which covers the scope, authority and resources of the function, broker, UBS Investment Bank.
The chairman, the deputy chairman, is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and the senior independent director and other non-executive directors is approved by the audit committee.
are available to meet major shareholders whenever necessary, and the chairman regularly did so during the year.
The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team was reviewed and approved, the reports of results received and the The board regards the Annual general meeting as an opportunity to responses of management considered.
The plan set out at the communicate directly with private investors.
It is attended by all board beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work members.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are able to was in line with expectations.
To ensure the independence of the meet the directors informally.
Separate resolutions are proposed on internal audit function, the senior internal auditor has the right of each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes direct access to the chair of the committee and to the chairman cast for and against each resolution, as well as the number of votes of the board: this right was not invoked in the year under review.
withheld, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands.
A poll would be called on any resolution where it was External audit appropriate or required.
The company offers an electronic voting The committee reviews auditor independence annually.
committee also monitors the cost effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditors.
To assist in ensuring independence, the Operating board appointment of the senior audit partner on the audit is rotated Northern Foods operating board met monthly and was responsible every five years.
The provision of non-audit services by the external for the management of the group.
Chaired by the chief executive, auditors is considered in line with the committees terms of reference.
it comprises the divisional directors and functional directors with In addition, the auditors report annually on the actions taken group wide responsibilities.
to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and on current best practice required to ensure independence.
Internal control and risk management The board has overall responsibility for the companys system of Remuneration committee internal controls which covers all aspects of the business.
Key risks The role of the committee is to determine the broad policy and are identified in the Performance review on pages 4 to 19 and include framework for the remuneration of executive directors and senior strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks.
The committee also determines the nature and scale are managed through a comprehensive internal control and risk of incentive performance arrangements that encourage enhanced management system as outlined below.
performance and which reward individuals in a fair and responsible manner for their contribution to the success of the business.
In setting Underlying this process is the boards aim to safeguard shareholders the remuneration policy for executive directors and senior managers, investments and the companys assets.
It also aims to ensure that the committee also takes into account the reward policies for proper accounting records are maintained, and that the financial managers generally.
information used within the business and for publication is accurate, reliable and fairly presents the financial position of the company and An integral part of the role of the remuneration committee is to carry results of its business operations.
out an appraisal of the performance of the chief executive.
In line with the Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for The Directors remuneration report can be found on pages 33 to 42.
Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull, the directors regularly review the effectiveness of the groups system of controls and risk Nomination committee management.
The directors believe that the company maintains an The committee meets as required to review the structure, size and effective, embedded system of internal controls and complies with composition of the board.
When the need for a new director is identified, Turnbull.
The system is designed to provide reasonable not absolute the criteria in respect of the background and competencies of potential assurance of effective operations and compliance with laws and candidates are approved by the board before the search is started.
This specification is drawn up after consideration of the skills, knowledge and experience of existing board members.
The committee also As part of its review process, the board considers new and emerging ensures that candidates have enough time available to devote to risks and also considers key external business drivers such as market the position.
Search consultants have been used extensively in the trends and competitive activity.
The board also plays an important identification of new board appointments.
role in driving continuous improvement in the management of risk by encouraging the sharing of best practice across the business.
Northern Foods plc Corporate governance report 31 N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:46 pm Page 32 Corporate governance report continued A summary of the principal control structure and processes in place There is a capital committee which meets on a bi-monthly across the group is set out below.
Its responsibilities are to set policy, to oversee the capital expenditure planning and budgeting process, and to approve Control structure and processes expenditure up to an agreed level delegated by the full board.
The board assesses key areas of internal control and risk management and sets policy accordingly.
It tasks each division The internal audit function reviews the standard of internal to identify and document each significant risk and to implement financial control and the accuracy of financial reporting through appropriate controls for that risk.
The board also requires the a rolling cycle of audit visits under a programme of activity divisions to manage, monitor and report on the effectiveness approved by the audit committee.
The central finance function obtains advice and provides adequate The divisions are supported by appropriate corporate management insurance cover for major losses with appropriate levels of resource which provides the technical skills and expertise needed deductibles, through a group programme with external insurance to supplement the operating divisions own resource and to provide brokers.
This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
overall assurance for the major areas of risk.
There are clearly defined lines of authority and accountability.
Financing and treasury management oversee the principle areas of treasury risk including liquidity, interest and currency risk.
Both the internal and external auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the company towards its risk management activities.
Information technology: the Information Services function provides appropriate infrastructure and back up services to the The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit business.
procedures and monitors response to any significant control issues raised.
Legal: provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal issues Roles and responsibilities for each area of identified risk are across the group, and ensures good title to properties and outlined below: intangible assets.
Strategic delivery: through its regular meetings the board Corporate services: evaluates social, environmental and ethical assesses performance against objectives.
In doing so it considers SEE risks and ensures that there are effective systems in place performance data and also considers external dynamics, such as for managing such risks.
Further information is provided in the shifting customer and consumer trends that could affect the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 20 to 25. delivery of these objectives.
Review process Health and safety: a central team provides professional advice on An ongoing review process includes an assessment of internal best practice, audits health and safety procedures, and coordinates controls and, in particular, internal financial controls, reports from the investigation of all reportable incidents.
the internal audit function as well as the external auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
A dedicated fire steering group identifies and manages fire risk through site audit and implementation of recommendations, Divisions and specialist functions report by exception on any together with sharing of best practice.
matters arising during the year to the monthly meetings of the operating board.
The results of the formal half yearly reviews are Talent management and human resources: a central team taken forward to the audit committee.
ensures the adequacy of existing management and plans succession through its organisational capability review.
The board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Food safety and quality: the technical services team assesses risks faced by the group, that it has been in place for the year under and approves raw material suppliers, audits the quality management review and up to the date of approval of these financial statements, systems in the group, provides guidance on compliance with food and that it is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with related and environmental legislation, sets technical standards and Turnbull guidance.
offers expertise on a wide range of food science and technology.
Going concern Asset management and engineering: the central supply chain The directors are satisfied that the company has adequate resources function approves contractors in respect of building, engineering to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the and professional services.
It also provides an expert consultancy financial statements for the year ended 1 April 2006 have been for the acquisition, management and disposal of physical assets, prepared on the going concern basis.
as well as assessing and approving suppliers of capital equipment and non-saleable revenue items.
By order of the board Procurement: the central procurement team identifies and Carol Williams manages key suppliers on a group wide basis.
Company Secretary Finance: Each division prepares detailed annual budgets and 31 May 2006 strategic plans, which are reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
Weekly and monthly accounts are prepared for each operating division and performance is monitored against the original budget, and any updated forecast.
The groups operating board meets on a formal basis each month to review divisional performance.
32 Corporate governance report Northern Foods plc
