38-39 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 2 Principal accounting policies continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued Intangible assets arising on business combinations Taxation Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it Customer relationships 5 to 13 years excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Brand names 5 to 10 years Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Non-compete agreements 2 to 4 years Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Intangible assets other probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Software assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which do not exceed three years.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient Property, plant and equipment taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint so as to write off the cost of assets to residual values on a straight-line basis over the assets useful estimated lives as follows: ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will Freehold buildings 50 years not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Leasehold buildings Over 50 years Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax or over the life of the lease is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred Plant, equipment and fittings Over 8 to 10 years tax is also dealt with in equity.
Vehicles for hire 3 to 6 years Financial instruments and hedge accounting Motor vehicles 3 to 6 years Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision of Vehicles for hire are depreciated on a straight-line basis using depreciation rates that reflect economic lives of between three and six years.
depreciation rates have been determined with the anticipation that the net book values at the point the vehicles are transferred into non-current assets Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value less any appropriate provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Trade held for sale is in line with the open market values for those vehicles.
Depreciation charges are adjusted for any differences that arise between net payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
book values and open market values of used vehicles upon transfer into non-current assets held for sale, taking into account the further direct costs The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing to sell the vehicles.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Property under construction is not depreciated.
Depreciation commences when these assets are ready for their intended use.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
Any gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income Freehold land is not depreciated.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the items Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to the income statement.
On the subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued property, the attributable being hedged.
revaluation surplus remaining in the revaluation reserve is transferred directly to retained earnings.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the derivative counterparties.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly Non-current assets held for sale in equity, and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction Non-current assets classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less estimated costs to sell.
Non-current assets results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction.
that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in Fixed asset investments recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement Impairment as they arise.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication Hedge accounting for cash flow hedges is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are transferred to the income statement as a net profit or loss for the period.
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Bank loans and issue costs An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment Bank loans are stated at the amount of proceeds after deduction of issue costs, which are amortised over the period of the loan.
Finance charges, losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for in the income statement on an accrual basis and units and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Inventories Inventories comprise spare parts and consumables and are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
40-41 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 2 Principal accounting policies continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Equity-settled employee schemes, including employee share options and deferred annual bonuses, provide employees with the option to acquire shares of the Company.
Employee share options and deferred annual bonuses are generally subject to performance or service conditions.
Transactions in foreign currencies other than UK Sterling are recorded at the rate prevailing at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is measured at the date of grant and charged to the income statement over the period currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate and any variances during which performance or service conditions are required to be met, or immediately where no performance or service criteria exist.
The fair are reflected in the income statement.
value of equity-settled share-based payments granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of employee share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only due to market based performance The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into UK Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net assets is recognised directly in equity.
All other translation differences are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences in equity on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or For cash-settled share-based payments a liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises, which are recognised directly in equity, together with the exchange difference determined at each balance sheet date.
on the net investment in these enterprises.
The Group also operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP under which employees each have the option to purchase an amount of shares annually The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated into UK Sterling using average exchange rates for the financial and receive an equivalent number of free shares.
The Group recognises the free shares as an expense evenly throughout the period over which period and variances compared with the exchange rate at the balance sheet date are recognised directly in equity.
the employees must remain in the employ of the Group in order to receive the free shares.
The Company maintains certain borrowings in the same currency as the functional currency of its overseas subsidiary undertaking, as a hedge against Dividends the net assets of the subsidiary.
These borrowings are translated into UK Sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Dividends on Ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are either paid or formally approved, whichever is earlier.
Any variances are recognised directly in equity.
Provisions Goodwill and fair value adjustments, arising on acquisition of a foreign entity, are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it They are denominated in the functional currency of the foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date, with is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by any variances reflected directly in equity.
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where All foreign exchange differences reflected directly in equity are shown in the currency translation reserve component of equity.
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments 3 Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty As Lessee: In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors have made the following judgments that have Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at their fair value or, if lower, the present value the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
of the future minimum lease payments and are depreciated over their useful economic lives using Group policies.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the rental Depreciation obligations are charged to the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts so as to produce a constant rate of return Vehicles for hire are depreciated on a straight-line basis using depreciation rates that reflect economic lives of between three and six years.
These depreciation rates have been determined with the anticipation that the net book values at the point the vehicles are transferred into non-current assets held for sale is in line with the open market values for those vehicles.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Under IAS 16, the Group is required to review its depreciation rates and estimated useful lives regularly to ensure that the net book As Lessor: value of disposals of tangible fixed assets are broadly equivalent to their market value.
Motor vehicles and equipment leased to certain customers under operating leases are included within property, plant and equipment.
Income from Depreciation charges are adjusted for any differences that arise between net book values and open market values of used vehicles upon transfer into such leases is taken to the income statement evenly over the period of the operating lease agreement.
non-current assets held for sale, taking into account the further direct costs to sell the vehicles.
Retirement benefit costs Intangible assets The Group predominantly operates defined contribution pension schemes and has one defined benefit scheme as a result of the acquisition of Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset.
Northgate AVR Limited formerly Arriva Vehicle Rental Limited as detailed in Note 35.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution arrangements The Directors have made assumptions with regard to the evidence in the market, at the time of acquisitions, when determining these estimated are charged to the income statement in the period they fall due.
Pension contributions in respect of one of these arrangements are held in trustee useful lives.
administered funds, independently of the Groups finances.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Goodwill Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
the average period until the benefits become vested.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each cash generating unit and a suitable The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying value of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 44,582,000 Note 14. unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The Group also operate Group personal pension plans.
Employee share schemes and share based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 30 April 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
42-43 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 4 Revenue 6 Restructuring costs All revenue recognised is from the rendering of services.
In February 2006, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Northgate AVR Limited formerly Arriva Vehicle Rental Limited Note 35.
To the extent that employees could not be integrated, termination terms were agreed and, to the extent that properties would not be utilised 5 Business and geographical segments in the future, amounts have been provided in respect of onerous contracts.
Business segments 2006 2005 For management purposes, the Group currently has one material business segment, which is the hire of vehicles.
000 000 As such, the Directors consider that this is the only business segment on which the Group should report.
Redundancy costs net of pension credit see Note 39 1,673 Geographical segments Onerous contracts 934 The Groups operations are located in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and Spain.
2,607 The Directors consider the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland to be a single geographical segment on the grounds that the results and net assets of operations in the Republic of Ireland are immaterial to the Group as a whole.
The results of the associate in the current year all arose in Spain.
UK & Republic The above amounts have been included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
of Ireland Spain Total 2006 2006 2006 7 Profit from operations 000 000 000 Notes 2006 2005 Revenue 300,771 71,838 372,609 000 000 Gross profit 102,724 21,834 124,558 Profit from operations is stated after Administrative expenses 43,883 6,850 50,733 charging crediting : Amortisation 692 535 1,227 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16, 17 136,209 120,831 Profit from operations 58,149 14,449 72,598 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 1,227 855 Net foreign exchange gains 16 Investment income 2,047 Restructuring costs 6 2,607 Finance costs 22,125 Staff costs 8 62,699 52,366 Share of profit of associate 3,542 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 332 228 Profit before taxation 56,062 Amounts payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings Other Information in respect of non-audit services 217 166 Capital additions 239,304 75,374 314,678 Depreciation 113,537 22,672 136,209 Balance Sheet Further detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: Segment assets 726,536 194,924 921,460 Interest in associate 41,927 Consolidated total assets 963,387 2006 2005 000 000 Segment liabilities 482,187 160,911 643,098 Audit services UK & Republic statutory reporting 332 228 of Ireland Spain Total 332 228 2005 2005 2005 Tax services 000 000 000 compliance services 55 60 Revenue 283,414 55,968 339,382 advisory services 74 Gross profit 103,509 20,776 124,285 129 60 Administrative expenses 40,646 6,547 47,193 Other services 88 106 Amortisation 321 534 855 549 394 Profit from operations 62,542 13,695 76,237 Investment income 1,814 Finance costs 23,063 A description of the work of the audit committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 24 to 26 and includes an explanation of Profit before taxation 54,988 how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
