northumbrian Water Group plc 38 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Corporate governance report introduction and general compliance statement taken by the Standing Committee are reported at the next The Board recognises the importance to the Company and its Board meeting.
shareholders of good corporate governance, which it regards as an integral part of the running of the Company.
The Board The Board endeavours to act in accordance with the Groups is committed to achieving high standards of corporate conduct code, Our Code of Conduct, which addresses the governance and undertakes regular reviews of compliance.
This Groups responsibilities to a range of stakeholders and the report, the directors report and the directors remuneration environment.
The code is available on the Companys website.
report describe how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code.
The Board believes that, during the year Board balance and independence and up to the date of this report, it has complied with the main There are eight directors.
Sir Fred Holliday is the non-executive and supporting principles and the provisions of the Combined Chairman.
His other significant appointments are as Chairman Code, except in the area of board performance evaluation of Northern Venture Trust plc and as a non-executive director of A.
The Board explains why it has not followed Northern 2 VCT plc.
The executive directors are John Cuthbert A.
6.1 and D. 1.1 later in this report.
Managing Director and Chris Green Finance Director.
Sir Patrick Brown is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director The Companys principal operating subsidiary, NWL, has also and the other independent non-executive directors are Martin endeavoured to maintain its own high standards of corporate Ngre, Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny Williams.
Ron Lepin is governance and to comply with the Combined Code, wherever also a non-executive director, but is not independent as he practicable, during the year.
is Vice President, Infrastructure, of Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board, which holds 25% of the issued share capital of The Board has also taken account of best practice on reporting, the Company.
for example, ABI and NAPF guidelines, in preparing this report.
Sir Fred will retire from the Board on 27 July 2006 and will be the Board succeeded as Chairman by Sir Derek Wanless, who is also a The Board sets and implements the Companys strategy and non-executive director of Northern Rock plc.
The Company ensures compliance with agreed policies and legal and fiduciary complies with the Combined Codes requirement that half of obligations.
The Boards decision to sharpen the focus on the the directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent noncore business underpinned the appointment of NWG nonexecutive directors.
Biographical details of the directors appear executive directors Sir Derek Wanless, Sir Patrick Brown, Ron on pages 12 and 13 and details of their service contracts are in Lepin, Martin Ngre and Jenny Williams to the NWL board on the directors remuneration report on page 45.
This ensures that all members of the NWG Board are fully familiar with NWLs operational priorities and As at 1 April 2005, the Companys former shareholder, Suez, participate in its regulatory and strategic positioning.
had two nominated directors on the Board, but they both resigned on 28 April 2005 following Suezs sale of its 25% The Board met five times during the year and held an additional stake in the Company.
Attendance at meetings was good throughout the year, with all current NWG directors The Chairman and Managing Director have clearly defined recording 100% attendance at Board and appropriate written responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Company Secretary, Martin Parker, The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board ensures that directors are kept informed and that information and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual flows effectively within the Group.
An intranet site has been director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
created to give the Board easy access to minutes and papers The Managing Director is responsible for running the from Board and committee meetings.
The Chairman ensures Companys business.
that important issues are given enough time at meetings and that all directors can express their views.
This enables full and The Combined Code sets out factors which may be relevant to vigorous discussion of key items.
a boards assessment of the independence of a non-executive director, including whether he or she has been an employee The non-executive directors met formally once without the of the group in question in the previous five years, has had a executive directors and are in regular touch with each other material business relationship with the company in the previous throughout the year.
The non-executive directors also met once three years in his or her capacity as a director or senior employee without the Chairman, but did not consider additional formal of a body which has had a material business relationship with meetings to be necessary.
the company, or has cross directorships with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies.
The Company has adopted Company Management Guidelines setting out the matters reserved to the Board for approval and Martin Ngre was, as an employee of the Suez group, the Chief matters which are, or can be, delegated to the committees Executive Officer of NSL then named Northumbrian Water and management.
These guidelines include financial limits for Group plc between April 2000 and April 2001.
During that each level of authority below Board level, and are circulated to time, NSL was wholly owned by Suez and the duration of his directors of subsidiaries and relevant senior managers within the connection with NSL was only 12 months.
Terms of reference of the main committees have been executive director of Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc, approved by the Board.
A Standing Committee can take urgent which held less than 1.5% of the share capital of the Company decisions not delegated to a specific committee between Board as at 31 March 2006.
The Board considers that Martin Ngre meetings.
All directors receive notice of Standing Committee is independent in character and judgement, and that his past meetings and are able to participate if they wish.
Decisions employment and present circumstances are not likely to affect CliCk to return to Contents northumbrian Water Group plc 39 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 his judgement.
He has demonstrated this consistently since nomination Committee joining the Board in 2003.
The members of the Nomination Committee are Sir Fred Holliday Chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, John Cuthbert, information and professional development Martin Ngre, Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny Williams.
All directors have access to independent professional advice Bernard Guirkinger was a member of the Committee to assist them in the performance of their duties, at the until his resignation from the Board on 28 April 2005, Companys expense, and to the Company Secretary for advice but there were no meetings between the start of the and assistance.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the year and the date of his resignation.
Company Secretary, monitors the induction and training requirements of directors.
The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval by the Performance evaluation Board.
The Committee reviews succession planning for the A full evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Board and will make recommendations to the Board when committees and of individual directors was conducted in appropriate.
The Committees general policy is to use external January 2005 and the Board proposes to carry out a formal recruitment consultants or to advertise in order to identify appraisal during the 2006 07 financial year and regularly suitable candidates.
From 1 April 2006, all non-executive thereafter.
Except as explained below, there was no formal directors will be appointed for a term of one year.
In accordance performance appraisal of the Board and committees during with the Articles, all directors are subject to re-election at the the year.
The Chairman considered that the withdrawal of the AGM at least every three years.
Suez appointed directors, the appointment of Ron Lepin, the appointment of the NWG non-executives to the NWL board The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and the announcement of his own retirement required a period and all members attended all meetings, apart from Sir Fred of adaptation and that a formal performance assessment in the Holliday who attended two meetings.
During the year the context of such changes would be unlikely to be worthwhile.
Committee considered: The Chairman did, however, assess the performance of the directors seeking appointment or re-appointment at the AGM the appointment of Ron Lepin to the NWG Board: and further details are provided in the notice of the AGM.
the appointment of a successor to Sir Fred Holliday, who will retire as Chairman of both the NWG Board and NWL board external appointments on 27 July 2006: The Board has no formal policy on external appointments of the appointment of a non-executive director to the NWL directors but follows the recommendations of the Combined board following Richard Allans retirement: Code.
Fees paid in respect of external appointments of executive the appointment of the NWG non-executive directors to directors are generally retained by the Company, except in the the NWL board: and case of John Cuthberts appointment as an associate director the renewal of appointments of non-executive directors of County Durham Development Company Limited, where his on the NWG and NWL boards whose contracts for service fee is donated to a charitable foundation in the north east of expired during the year.
The Nomination Committee ensures, on appointment, that a director has sufficient time to undertake his or her duties.
Ron Lepin was the senior executive at Ontario Teachers Pension External commitments taken on after appointment are discussed Plan Board who managed the purchase of Suezs 25% interest with the Chairman to avoid detriment to the performance of in NWG.
Following that purchase, Mr Lepin met Sir Fred the directors duties for the Company.
Holliday, John Cuthbert and Chris Green and, on 27 July 2005, he met the NWG and NWL boards and described his own Board committees professional background and experience, as well as Ontario The Board has established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Teachers Pension Plan Boards investment strategy.
Following Treasury Committees to assist it in the performance of its duties.
discussions between the NWG and NWL boards, consultation The Board sets the terms of reference of the committees and with several substantial shareholders and a recommendation by receives regular reports from the Chairmen of these committees at the Nomination Committee, Mr Lepin was invited to join the board meetings.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination NWG Board on 24 October 2005. and Remuneration Committees are available on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
The membership of these Accountability and audit committees complies with the Combined Code.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Sir Patrick Brown Chairman, remuneration Committee Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny Williams, who have all served The work of the Remuneration Committee and details of throughout the year and who have attended all meetings of the the directors remuneration are set out in the directors Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Sir Derek Wanless has remuneration report on pages 42 to 48. recent significant financial experience.
The Managing Director and Finance Director are invited to Audit Committee meetings with the permission of its Chairman, but have no right of attendance.
Sir Patrick meets regularly with the Internal Audit Manager.
CliCk to return to Contents northumbrian Water Group plc 40 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Corporate governance report The Committee met three times during the year and its Audit Committee, these controls are tested throughout the work included: year.
A report detailing any areas of concern is produced after each audit.
As part of the same process all of the key business monitoring the integrity of the financial statements risks are identified.
Each risk is assessed on an unmanaged basis, of the Company: the controls which are in place to mitigate the risks are detailed reviewing the Companys internal financial controls: and the risk is then re-assessed after these controls.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: Internal Audits findings and recommendations are presented monitoring and reviewing the performance of the external to the Audit Committee along with agreed actions.
The relative auditors: and significance of each of the findings is given and the more monitoring the potential impact and management of significant issues are discussed in greater detail.
Internal Audit significant risks on the business using a risk methodology updates progress against any agreed actions until the control which meets the recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
This methodology sets out and rates all identified risks, including operational, external, financial, environmental, organisational structure reputational, social and ethical risks.
The trading subsidiaries have their own boards of directors the Subsidiary Boards which are responsible for the operational and Given the importance of NWL to the Groups business, the financial control of their own businesses.
The Subsidiary Boards Committee works closely with the Audit Committee of NWL.
report to the Managing Director, or Finance Director, and to In particular, both committees regularly review NWLs debt the Companys Board on matters including major strategic, recovery strategy and performance.
financial, organisational, compliance and regulatory issues.
non-audit services The NWL management team manages the major business of The Committee has approved a procedure for the approval the Group and consists of John Cuthbert Managing Director, of non-audit services to safeguard the objectivity and Chris Green Finance Director, Graham Neave Operations independence of the external auditors.
Certain services are Director and on NWL board, Ceri Jones Regulation & prohibited, for example, bookkeeping, financial information Compliance Director and on NWL board, John Devall Water systems design and information, and internal audit outsourcing & Networks South Director, Ian Donald Customer Services services, whilst others require prior approval, either from the Director, Diane Morton HR Director, Colin Price Technical Audit Committee Chairman, if under 50,000, or from the Director and Henry Wilson Waste Water & Networks North Audit Committee, if over 50,000.
The NWL management team meets monthly to the auditors to report annually details of all non-audit services consider and discuss progress against annual and monthly provided.
The auditors must also confirm to the Audit financial and operational targets and to prepare the business Committee, in accordance with SAS610 Communication plan for consideration and approval by the NWL board.
of audit matters to those charged with governance, that they have considered their relationship with the Company The Board is able to monitor the impact of social, environmental and that, in their professional judgement, the objectivity of the and ethical matters on the Groups business, to assess the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
A impact of significant risks on the business, and to evaluate breakdown of the cost of audit and non-audit services provided methods of managing these risks through reports it receives by the auditors is provided in note 4 to the financial statements.
from the Subsidiary Boards and the Audit Committee.
The only environmental risk considered to be significant by the Board is review of internal control the potential loss of the use of agricultural land for processed The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound sewage treatment sludge disposal.
To reduce this risk, NWL system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
has entered into a contract to supply a cement manufacturing The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk company with pellets made from the processed sludge, which of failure to achieve business objectives.
Regular reviews of the are used as fuel in a cement kiln.
Further details are provided effectiveness of the internal control system are carried out in on page 28. accordance with the Turnbull Report.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of For a number of years, the Subsidiary Boards have performed a the annual report and financial statements 2005 06.
There are full annual business risk analysis, to meet the recommendations inherent limitations in any system of internal control and even of the Turnbull Report.
This methodology is described above, in the most effective system can only provide a reasonable, and relation to the work of the Audit Committee.
The results of the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
risk reviews are reported in detail to the Audit Committee, and a summary is reported to the Companys directors.
Accompanying The Company has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups the risk model is a detailed review of each companys internal system of internal control, outlined below, as follows during financial controls, along with either confirmation that the the year.
The Internal Audit team manages a process whereby controls have operated throughout the year or details of any all of the financial controls within the Group are identified and exceptions.
Action points arising from these reviews are certified by the relevant manager as having operated for the full followed up as part of the internal audit process.
As part of a programme of work which is agreed with the Some subsidiaries, such as NWL, consider risks more frequently.
The NWL management team considers significant risks in a structured way every two months, assessing the likelihood and potential impact of the relevant risks both before and after risk CliCk to return to Contents northumbrian Water Group plc 41 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 management measures have been put in place.
Further details relations with shareholders about how risks and uncertainties facing the Group are assessed The Company welcomes constructive communication with and managed are included in the business review on pages all its shareholders.
The executive directors of the Company 27 and 28.
NWL operates a balanced scorecard system which maintain regular contact with its large institutional investors, as monitors progress against KPIs and which covers all areas of well as giving presentations to analysts at the announcements operation of the business.
Performance against these KPIs is of its interim and preliminary results.
During the year, the used to calculate the annual bonus paid to all NWL employees.
executive directors met 77 times with institutional investors and discussed any issues raised at these meetings with the rest On a monthly basis, the Managing Director and the Finance of the Board.
Investor feedback reports from these meetings, Director compare the actual operational and financial prepared by the Companys advisers, are also considered at performance of each business with its plan and budget.
Targets Board meetings to update the non-executive directors on the are set to measure performance and regular forecasts are made.
The Board believes that these methods of investor feedback provide the Senior Independent information and reporting system Non-Executive Director and the other non-executive directors Each Subsidiary Board holds a copy of the Companys financial with a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns control manual and Management Guidelines, which contain of major shareholders.
The Chairman continues to welcome full details of the procedures for distribution of information contact with any shareholders who have matters they wish and financial reporting.
Each Subsidiary Board has developed to discuss.
The Company has not received any requests from financial control systems appropriate to its activities.
institutional shareholders to meet with non-executive directors.
Budgets and business planning All shareholders are encouraged to contact the Company The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans and with queries or suggestions.
Shareholder feedback on last annual budgets which are reviewed by the Managing Director years annual report has been taken into account in the and Finance Director and submitted to the Companys Board for preparation of the report and financial statements for this year.
Business plans and budgets include an assessment of The Chairman sends a welcome letter to all new non-corporate the key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
shareholders, which includes information on services available to shareholders.
Shareholder information is also available on the The approval of the Board is required for major investments, Companys website.
During the year, the Company launched a including those in new markets, and large capital expenditure programme to encourage shareholders to receive electronic programmes.
The treasury strategy, which is approved by the communications from the Company and to manage their Board, requires that investments are limited to certain money shareholdings online.
market and treasury instruments, and that the Groups exposure to any single bank, building society or market is controlled, with AGM maximum deposits allowed with any single counterparty.
The Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys AGM at Groups investment strategy aims to fix interest rates for part of which they can meet and question the directors.
The Company the Groups borrowings and investments for periods determined will make a presentation at the AGM to highlight the key by the forecast cash flow of the individual businesses.
This business developments and events during the year.
The full manages the exposure to the risk of changes in short term Board is expected to be available at the AGM to answer interest rates.
Foreign currency exposure is also managed as shareholders questions.
Voting at the AGM will be on a show part of the treasury strategy approved by the Board.
of hands but the proxy votes cast on each resolution will be displayed after each resolution has been voted on.
If the voting The Board therefore believes that there are effective systems in on a show of hands produces a different result to that which place to identify and manage significant risks and that it receives would have been achieved on a poll, the Chairman will call a sufficient information to enable it to assess these risks.
poll so that the result of the voting on that resolution reflects the wishes of the majority of shareholders.
treasury Committee The Treasury Committee, consisting of Sir Derek Wanless Martin Parker Chairman and Sir Patrick Brown, met once during the year, Company Secretary and both members were present.
Christophe Cros was a 6 June 2006 member of the Committee between 17 March 2005 until his resignation from the Board on 28 April 2005 but there were no meetings of the Committee during that period.
The Treasury Committees role is to: review and recommend treasury policies to the Board: and monitor the current economic environment and the likely future financing requirements of the Group.
Treasury policies were last approved by the Board on 26 May 2005.
CliCk to return to Contents
