16 Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code The maintenance of effective corporate governance remains a priority for the Board of the Company.
Mr Nicholas Irens, the Groups Chairman, stood down as a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees in adherence with the Code provisions on independence.
He resigned as a member of both the Remuneration and Nomination Committees prior to last years Annual General Meeting, but continued as a member of the Audit Committee during the year under review.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board is entirely satisfied as to Mr Irens actual independence with regard to his membership of the Audit Committee, as he has no day-to-day involvement in the business and brings wholly independent judgment to the Board table.
Further, in his membership of the Audit Committee, the Company highly values Mr Irens significant financial acumen, qualifications and experience.
The Company considers that it complies with the recommendations of the Combined Code with the exception of Mr Irens membership of the Audit Committee noted above.
The Board is of sufficient size that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Company considers the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors to be entirely sufficient at the present time.
The Board is currently reviewing this position as Mr Irens has indicated his desire to retire from the Board having been the Groups Chairman for the last seven years.
Once a suitable successor has been found and is ready to take over the role Mr Irens will step down as Non-Executive Chairman.
The shareholders will be kept informed in the usual way as changes to the Board composition take effect.
Applying the Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Group Finance Directors Review set out an assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board of Directors The Board comprises nine Directors: the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors Mr Jack R Fryer, Mr David C Hodgson, Sir Stephen J Lander and Mr Nick Starritt and four Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent, have no dayto-day management responsibilities within the Group and are free from any conflicts of interest.
If any conflicts of interests are identified then they are entered in a conflicts register and the Director does not participate in that discussion.
Considered independent by the Board is Mr David Hodgson a Non-Executive Director who is a Managing Director of General Atlantic, a major shareholder in the Company.
The Company considers that Mr Hodgsons contribution to the Board is significant and that he demonstrates independent judgement at Board meetings.
Mr Hodgson has wide involvement in a number of complementary businesses and the Company benefits from his substantial level of valuable sector-specific experience and knowledge.
The Directors biographies appear on page 15 of this report and these demonstrate that the Board has the necessary range of backgrounds, qualities and experience to lead and maintain effective control over Northgates activities.
Northgate has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive to differentiate the running of the Board from the executive responsibility for running the Companys business which have been documented and agreed by the Board and Mr Jack Fryer is the Senior Independent Non-Executive.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at general meetings at least every three years.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS 17 The Board of Directors continued The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved to its decision which was reviewed and updated during the year.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of the Chief Executives powers and those of subsidiary management.
In response to the comments made by investor bodies the Board has appointed a full time Company Secretary to provide advice and guidance on all governance matters.
Previously this role was performed by the Group Finance Director, but in view of the Companys commitment to the Code the Board decided to ensure that all Directors have access to the advice and services of a dedicated Company Secretary.
In addition the Board has, by means of the Audit Committee, established a procedure whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year at formal Board meetings.
In addition, the Directors attend a strategic planning away day.
The attendance of the Directors at Board meetings is shown below.
In addition, ad hoc meetings of the Board and its committees were held during the year to deal with administrative and similar matters.
Board meeting Audit Remuneration Nomination 10 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings 1 meeting N J Irens 10 Chairman 4 J R Fryer 9 4 6 Chairman 1 Sir Stephen J Lander 10 4 Chairman 6 1 N Starritt 10 6 1 Chairman D C Hodgson 9 C M R Stone 9 J R Stier 10 M S Aldis 10 D J Meaden 9 The Board believes that progressive organisations appreciate the challenge of operating in todays business environment and particularly the requirement for more transparency in determining Board memberships and assessing the performance of the Directors.
Therefore, during the year, Northgate completed self-assessment performance evaluations of the Board, its Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and its individual Directors adopting an industry standard approach to analyse individual and collective behaviours and processes.
The results for the Board evaluation showed improvements in setting strategy and having the right mix of skills to ensure its optimum effectiveness, prioritisation of important matters into the agenda items and timeliness of information.
As part of this process, during the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Additionally, the Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executives present.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 18 Corporate Governance continued Principal Board Committees The Nominations Committee and Board Appointments The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are reviewed annually.
The Committee keeps under review the Board structure, size and composition.
It selects and proposes to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Directors of the Group, helps induct new members and considers Board succession plans.
Following Mr Irens decision to step down from this Committee Mr Nick Starritt took over the chair.
In addition to Mr Starritt the Committee comprises Sir Stephen J Lander and Mr Jack R Fryer.
The Committee meets as required.
In line with best practice, Northgate does not consider internal candidates or employees that have left the Company within the last five years for appointment as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board are reviewed annually.
The Committee ensures that the Executive Directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded, giving due regard to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
The Committee comprises Mr Jack R Fryer Chairman following Mr Irens decision to step down from this Committee, Sir Stephen J Lander and Mr Nick Starritt.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
When necessary the Remuneration Committee is advised independently by remuneration consultants.
The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration for Directors and senior executives are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 27.
The Audit Committee The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are reviewed annually.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management and the audit process.
It comprises Sir Stephen J Lander Chairman, Mr Nicholas J Irens, and Mr Jack R Fryer.
Mr Irens has recent and relevant financial experience through his work with a number of other companies.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend the meetings by invitation.
Northgate has an Internal Audit function that provides the Audit Committee with independent, objective assurance regarding internal controls and risk management processes.
Northgate has adopted and implemented a formal whistle blowing policy and process that allows staff to raise concerns, in confidence, regarding possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
There are arrangements in place for the investigation and follow up of any matters raised.
In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the Group will on occasion use the Groups Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for other work that they are well placed to undertake.
This includes work in respect of acquisitions and disposals, pension scheme and other ancillary audit work and tax compliance.
In such circumstances, due consideration is given by the Committee to the impact of the assignment on the independence of the Auditors and to their qualifications to carry out the role.
The Group Finance Director, Mr John R Stier, reviews all potential work and discusses this with the Committee where appropriate.
Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the Auditors and after careful discussion with the responsible audit Directors and the Executive Directors, the Audit Committee is satisfied as to the independence of the statutory Auditors.
In addition to the above, the other work of the Audit Committee on areas such as risk assessment and internal controls is described below.
Buncefield Impact upon Internal Audit Function Clearly the incident at Buncefield has had a major impact on the year and as a result the focus of Internal Audit since December 2005 has been on the controls and processes post the Buncefield explosion together with reviewing the compilation of the insurance claim.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 19 19 Responsibility for Internal Controls and Risk Management The Groups overriding objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the needs of customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and the systems of internal control, and for monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Further independent assurance is provided by an internal audit function which operates across the Group, and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk Assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area identify their risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions strategy being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
This information is communicated upwards on a filter basis, culminating in a discussion of the Group Risk Profile by the Board.
This process has operated for the year under review and will continue going forward.
It has been reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
Internal Control Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, it has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performances.
These include: review of divisional operating plans with the relevant Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval: regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts: monthly comparison of each operating divisions actual financial performance with budget: operating policies and procedures: and regular reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board.
Assurance On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups: assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and a report from internal audit on the risk assessment process: and systems of internal control primarily through agreeing the scope of the Internal Audit programme and reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and interim financial statements and a review of the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken.
The work of the Internal Audit department is focused on areas of priority as identified by the risk analysis and in accordance with the annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
External auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have during the year and up to the date of this report reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 20 Corporate Governance continued Relations with Shareholders The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major institutional and other shareholders.
This provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and other executives in order to establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
There is a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal announcements and publications covering the full year and interim results.
There are associated briefings for stockbroking analysts and investors, the presentation material for which is published on the Companys website.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board encourages shareholders to participate in the Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the AGM there will be a statement by the Chairman regarding the Companys performance in 2005 06.
It is intended that all Directors will, as usual, attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst illness or other pressing reasons may mean this is not achieved, in normal circumstances the Chairmen of the Committees will attend the AGM and will be available to answer questions.
Shareholders attending the AGM will be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
These will be advised after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and placed on the Companys website after the meeting.
Going Concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors believe it is reasonable to expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board J D Richardson Secretary 5 July 2006 NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
