CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance Pendragon PLC is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in line with the UK Listing Authority listing rules and its Board supports the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code which applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report, on pages 27 to 34 below, explains how the company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board regularly reviews corporate governance matters, taking into account both guidance issued by bodies representing institutional shareholders and individual institutional shareholders policies and feedback.
Other than where expressly stated, the company has complied with the Code throughout the year.
Directors The company and its group is managed through its board of directors.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters.
Through the companys divisional structure, the Board reviews the strategic direction of individual trading businesses, their annual budgets and their progress towards achievement of those budgets.
The Board also takes charge of the companys standards in matters of corporate governance and policy matters affecting the companys stakeholders.
The Board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control, including financial control and risk management and the groups records on matters of health and safety and environmental compliance.
It is also responsible for approving appointments to the Board and of the company secretary and approving policies relating to directors remuneration and severance.
All matters of an operational nature and within the executive directors capital expenditure authority are dealt with by the executive directors.
Certain of the Boards duties are delegated to committees of the Board, whose responsibilities and composition are set out on pages 20 to 22 of this Report.
There is a clear separation of the functions of chairman and chief executive, recorded in a written statement reviewed annually by the Board and published on the Pendragon PLC website.
This statement is also available for shareholders inspection at the Annual General Meeting and at any time from the company secretary upon request.
The Board operates to a standing agenda which ensures that all matters reserved for its decision are dealt with in an appropriate manner, and all matters requiring regular or annual review receive adequate scrutiny and debate.
Between meetings, information packs containing key performance data are circulated to directors.
The chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present when he deems it appropriate.
In addition to formal meetings of the Board, informal meetings to familiarise with particular operations or address strategic matters are held as dictated by the requirements of the companys business and any new developments.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and where applicable its committees during the year is set out in the table below.
The informal meetings of the Board and meetings held in addition to the timetabled meetings are shown as Ad hoc.
Board and committee attendance Director Board Ad hoc Audit Nomination Remuneration Total Sir Nigel Rudd N 9 9 1 1 n a 1 1 n a 11 11 W W Rhodes N 9 9 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 3 15 15 N G Hannah N 8 9 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 13 15 J H Holt A, N, R 9 9 1 1 4 4 1 1 4 4 19 19 M T Davies A, N, R 9 9 1 1 4 4 1 1 4 4 19 19 D A L Joyce A, N, R 7 7 n a 3 3 1 1 1 1 12 12 M J Le May A, N, R 7 7 n a 3 3 1 1 1 1 12 12 T G Finn 9 9 1 1 n a n a n a 10 10 M S Casha 9 9 1 1 n a n a n a 10 10 D R Forsyth 9 9 1 1 n a n a n a 10 10 H C Sykes 9 9 1 1 n a n a n a 10 10 A Audit Committee member N Nomination Committee member R Remuneration Committee member Attendance is displayed showing the number of meetings attended out of the total directors were eligible to attend e. g. 19 19 means 19 out of the 19 meetings held were attended Mr N G Hannah retired from the Board on 31 December 2006.
Mr N G Hannah and Mr W W Rhodes were members of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee until the 28 April 2006 the date of Annual General Meeting : they were therefore eligible to attend those Committee meetings held between 1st January 2006 and 28 April 2006.
There were 3 meetings of the Remuneration Committee and 1 meeting of the Audit Committee during this period.
Mr D A L Joyce and Mr M J Le May were appointed to the Board 1st March 2006: they were therefore not eligible to attend meetings held between 1st January 2006 and 1st March 2006.
18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The names, brief biographical details and Committee appointments of each of the directors appear on page 14.
The company has not identified any individual as deputy chairman.
The senior non-executive director has met with the other non-executive directors, without the chairman present, to conduct the annual appraisal of the chairmans performance during the year.
Directors have the opportunity at each meeting of the Board, and informally between meetings, to raise any concerns they may have regarding the way the company is being run or any proposed course of action.
Any such concerns, if voiced at a meeting of the Board or any of its Committees, would be recorded in the minutes.
No such concerns have been raised during the year.
The company supports the principles of the Code regarding Board balance and the ability of Board members to bring to bear an independent judgement on the matters put before them.
In recognition of this principle, the appointments of Mr D A L Joyce and Mr M J Le May became effective on 1 March 2006.
For 2006, the Board comprised four executive directors and six non-executive directors, of whom four are considered by the Code to be independent, and the chairman.
Mr D A L Joyce and Mr M J Le May became members of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Following the Annual General Meeting in 2006, both Mr N G Hannah and Mr W W Rhodes stood down from the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were then composed entirely of non-executive directors treated by the Code as independent.
In line with provision B2.1 of the Code, Sir Nigel Rudd re-joined the Remuneration Committee with effect from the 1 January 2007.
Mr N G Hannah retired from the Board on 31 December 2006.
Independence In the view of the Board, every non-executive director serving during the year has demonstrated the required degree of independence, both in character and judgement, taking into account all the relevant circumstances.
The appointment of Mr M J Le May and Mr D A L Joyce as non-executive directors in March 2006 means that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, now comprises non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Due to the rebuttable presumption in the Code that a director who has served on the board for more than nine years is not independent, two of the directors, Mr W W Rhodes and Mr N G Hannah would not, due to their long service, be treated by the Code as independent, unless the company were able to rebut such presumption.
The company continues to regard each of Mr W W Rhodes and Mr N G Hannah as independent, for the reasons set out below.
The only matter relevant for consideration in relation to Mr W W Rhodes is the duration of his appointment as a director, which commenced in 1989.
The Board considers that, notwithstanding his length of service, Mr Rhodes remains independent in character and judgement and continues to be committed to his role.
Mr N G Hannah who served as a director throughout the year and had continuous service as a non-executive director for over nine years left office on 31 December 2006.
In recent years he received a retainer for property related advice to group companies, negotiated on arms length terms, which is subject to annual review.
Mr Hannah is also non-executive chairman of one of the companys commercial property advisers, Innes England Limited.
Property advisers to the company are selected through a rigorous tendering process and the allocation of work among the respective advisers is regularly reviewed.
This transparent and objective process ensures that at all times the companys dealings with Innes England Limited are at arms length.
Details of the additional services provided to group companies by Mr Hannah and of his association with Innes England Limited appear on page 76.
The amounts of payments are not regarded by either party as material and this relationship and the retainer arrangements are not regarded by the Board as having affected Mr N G Hannahs independence.
Notwithstanding his length of service, the Board considers that Mr N G Hannah remained independent in character and judgement.
Other than as set out above, there are no relationships or circumstances in relation to any director which are regarded by the company as having the potential to affect his exercising independent judgement.
Board composition and effectiveness The Board reviews annually the composition of the Board and its Committees and the respective contributions of each director.
The effectiveness of the Board and Committee structure is considered, together with the adequacy and appropriateness of the skill set of the Board, taking into account any new developments in the companys business or strategy, and the range of expertise, knowledge and experience represented.
The latest of these reviews concluded that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively and that in particular, the clear demarcation of the respective responsibilities of the individual directors, the Committees and the Board contributed strongly to their effective operation.
The Board also concluded that the skills and experience present are appropriate to the companys business activities and provide adequate oversight of the assessment and management of risk.
All directors seek election to the Board at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all directors seek re-election by rotation at least once every three years.
For the year under review, the Board has evaluated the performance of each director.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior non-executive director and assisted by the chief executive have reviewed the performance of the other executive directors, the non-executives have reviewed the performance of the chief executive, and the Board has reviewed the performance of the non-executive directors.
19 Each non-executive directors performance in furthering the companys objectives was assessed, together with his contribution in his areas of expertise, reflected in his Committee work, participation in Board discussion and, where applicable, familiarisation visits.
Attendance at meetings was also considered.
The evaluation of the non-executive directors also addressed their capability, time commitment and, where applicable, effectiveness in the role of Committee chairman.
The assessment of executive directors covered two aspects of performance: the directors individual contribution towards achievement of the companys goals: and the achievement of individual objectives appropriate to his or her role.
The performance review of the chairman was conducted by the non-executive directors led by the senior non-executive director.
They considered the responsibilities of the role as set out in the Code, including capability, time commitment, effectiveness and shareholder communication.
The chairmans principal commitments outside the company as at February 2007 were as non-executive chairman of Alliance Boots plc, deputy chairman of Barclays PLC, non-executive director of BAE Systems PLC, and chairman of the Boardroom Issues Group of the Confederation of British Industry.
The Board is satisfied that the chairman and each non-executive director is able to devote the amount of time required to attend to the companys affairs and his duties as a Board member.
Information and advice The directors regularly receive financial and other information concerning the groups activities, plans and performance.
Each director is entitled on request to receive from the company information to enable him to make informed judgements and adequately to discharge his duties and has access to the advice and services of the company secretary on all matters of Board procedures and corporate governance.
The company secretary also provides advice and support to each of the Boards Committees and, in particular, to the chairman on all corporate governance matters.
The directors terms of appointment also permit them, at the companys expense, to take independent professional advice in connection with their duties.
In line with common practice, the company maintains insurance cover in respect of the liability of its directors and officers to third parties.
Professional development The Board includes individuals from various backgrounds with many years experience of senior positions either in listed companies or professional life.
In carrying out their duties, the directors are expected to bring to bear an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct.
New Board members receive an induction tailored to their needs.
An induction information pack, comprising constitutional documents, terms of reference and historical and accounting information is provided and operational site visits are undertaken to familiarise with the groups business.
Where appropriate, both upon appointment and subsequently, formal training by external providers in matters such as the duties of directors, pension trusteeship and corporate governance is arranged.
All directors are encouraged to maintain an awareness of new developments in the areas of the groups principal activities and attend appropriate briefings on individual aspects of the groups business or new developments.
Where necessary, directors have access to professional training relating to their Board or committee functions.
During the year, the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees have attended specialist briefings on issues relevant to their professional development and the business of their committees.
Board Committees The Board delegates certain matters to committees of the Board, each of which operates under written terms of reference.
These, together with the Committees membership, can be found on the Pendragon PLC website.
Nomination Committee The Committee is composed of the non-executive directors, meets at least once a year and its chairman is Sir Nigel Rudd.
The Committee is responsible for leading the process for appointments to the Board.
The Committee and the Board operate to a protocol for the selection and appointment of executive and non-executive directors.
This includes a six stage process, from the identification of the vacancy to the making of a recommendation to the Board for an appointment.
Having identified a vacancy, the Committee assesses the current skills profile of the Board and produces a skills profile for the vacant position, with the aim of strengthening and enhancing the skills, knowledge base and experience of the Board.
The need to advertise the vacancy or engage executive search advisers is considered.
Interviews with short-listed candidates follow, conducted by an appropriately constituted panel of directors, comprising a majority of non-executive directors and excluding directors with any personal or business connection to the candidates.
All Board members are given the opportunity to meet a recommended candidate before a nomination is put to the Board.
The appointments of Mr M J Le May and Mr D A L Joyce were made in accordance with this selection and appointment protocol.
20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Committee The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr M T Davies, is an independent non-executive director.
The Committee is composed of the nonexecutive directors and meets at least once a year.
The retirements of Mr N G Hannah and Mr W W Rhodes following the Annual General Meeting held in April 2006, and the appointments of Mr D A L Joyce and Mr M J Le May, ensured that the Committee was comprised entirely of non-executive directors considered by the Code to be independent.
The Committee has responsibility for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors in the context of the policy adopted by the Board.
It also liaises with the Nomination Committee to ensure the remuneration packages set for new executive directors are consistent with the companys overall remuneration policy.
It sets the targets for any performance related pay schemes applicable to executive directors and determines the policy for and scope of pension agreements, termination packages and compensation commitments for the executive directors.
It is also responsible for ensuring that due regard is given to best practice in matters of executive remuneration and that the company complies with all applicable regulations relating to executive remuneration.
In 2006, the Remuneration Committee oversaw the introduction and implementation of a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the full details of which can be found on pages 27 to 30 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report is considered by the Remuneration Committee, but adopted by the Board as a whole.
That Report is set out on pages 27 to 34.
Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr J H Holt who is also the senior non-executive director.
It is composed of the non-executive directors of the company except the chairman.
The retirements from the Committee of Mr N G Hannah and Mr W W Rhodes following the Annual General Meeting held in April 2006, and the appointments of Mr D A L Joyce and Mr M J Le May, ensured that the Committee was, and continues to be comprised entirely of non-executive directors considered by the Code to be independent.
Mr J H Holt is regarded by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience, due to his lengthy career in accountancy, with , and as a result of his regular attendance at appropriate continuing professional development seminars.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are held at least three times a year and are attended, by invitation, by the finance director, the head of the internal audit function and representatives of the companys external auditors, at the chairmans discretion.
The Committee met four times in 2006.
Committee Activities The meetings in February and August take place in advance of the preliminary and interim results announcements.
At these meetings, the Committee considers the draft financial statements and the preliminary and interim results announcements.
It also considers the report of the external auditors on the full-year audit, concentrating on issues of judgement and audit focus identified in the audit plan.
Additional meetings, held in June and November, are concerned primarily with the review of the business risk management process, the outcomes from risk control visits, and the effectiveness of the visit plan for the current year, as well as the external audit plan for the year, the audit fee and other significant corporate governance issues, such as those with Financial Services Authority FSA implications.
In particular, during 2006, systems of internal control and monitoring relating to FSA regulated products particularly general insurance products sold by the group were reviewed.
At each meeting attended by the external auditors, the members of the Committee have the opportunity for discussion with the auditors without the finance director or internal audit leader being present.
This permits any issues to be reviewed with, and assurances to be sought from, the external auditors independent of executive management involvement.
The chairman of the Committee also makes himself available for meetings with the leader of the companys internal audit function to allow issues concerning controls and, in particular, the working and resourcing of the internal audit function, to be reviewed.
The Committees terms of reference are published on the Pendragon PLC website and, in summary, include responsibility for: monitoring the integrity of the companys financial statements and any formal announcement relating to the companys financial performance: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the external auditors, reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, and developing and implementing the companys policy on the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the companys internal financial controls and system of internal control and risk management, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit department and ensuring adequate levels of staffing and ensuring that the companys systems of control as they relate to activities regulated by the Financial Services Authority are adequate and functioning properly and are adequately resourced.
21 The review of the arrangements for employees to raise, in confidence, concerns about possible improprieties in relation to financial reporting or other matters also falls within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
The Committee reviews at least once annually the companys whistleblowing policy and its procedures for the reporting and recording of suspected fraud and dishonest acts.
These items also form part of the Committees standing agenda.
Throughout 2006, following the Committees review, further improvements to the companys procedures were made, particularly in the areas of FSA compliance, Anti-Fraud, Theft and Corruption, whistleblowing and Anti-Money Laundering.
The companys Anti-Fraud, Theft and Corruption Policy and Anti-Money Laundering Policy is available on the companys website.
During the year the Committee chairman has carried out an evaluation of the independence of the companys external auditor KPMG Audit Plc and reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Matters addressed in the evaluation included an assessment of the quality of communication between the external auditor and the Audit Committee, the manner in which the relationship between the auditor and the company is managed and the ability of the auditor to challenge practices and procedures and to communicate appropriately with the company on any significant control weakness discovered in the course of their audit work.
Also considered were the level of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and the potential this may have to impair the independence of the audit.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function has also been formally assessed.
The views of management and of the external auditor have been taken into account in the review of the internal audit function and the views of management have been taken into account in the review of the external auditor.
Each review concluded that the functions were performing effectively.
The Committee has considered the policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the companys auditor during the year.
The companys policy is not to exclude its auditor from undertaking non-audit work, but to permit the supply of such services in areas where, in the opinion of the Committee, it is appropriate to do so.
The objective of the policy is to ensure that non-audit work is carried out in a way that affords full value for money, whilst obtaining a service that best serves the interests of the company.
Contracts for non-audit work are not therefore awarded to the companys auditor where there is a perceived conflict of interest.
Where appropriate, the provision of non-audit services is formally market tested through a tender process.
The Committee has during the year reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements with the aim of establishing that these are not impaired by the provision to the company of nonaudit services.
During the year the companys auditor provided non-audit services as reporting accountants on the acquisition of Reg Vardy plc.
Non audit fees for 2006 were higher than usual, mainly as a result of the significant work undertaken on permissible non-audit services including acting as reporting accountants to the company on the sale and leaseback of certain properties to the companys joint venture, PPH0 Limited.
KPMG LLP also continued as advisers to, and actuary for, the companys various occupational pension schemes, details of which appear in the Remuneration Report on page 28, having been selected by competitive tender.
A full statement of the fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and KPMG LLP for audit and non-audit services is provided in note 3 to the financial statements on page 51.
The Committee has concluded that the provision of these services has not impaired audit independence.
System of internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing a sound system of internal control.
The system of control has been in place throughout the year.
High level risk assessment occurs at one meeting of the Board during the year in the context of the companys annual strategic review.
Operational management is charged with responsibility for identifying and evaluating risks facing the groups businesses on a day-to-day basis.
In establishing and maintaining the companys system of internal control, the Board has paid due regard to the Turnbull Guidance on risk management and internal controls.
22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Boards process for satisfying itself of the effectiveness of the system of internal control relies on: assurance from executive management with regard to the design, communication and implementation of controls and provision of monitoring information: and assurance from the Audit Committee on the regular monitoring of the system and correction of any material control failures.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has during the year reviewed all relevant risk areas and the system of internal controls and received reports on new risks and changes to the existing risks, based on the following broad areas:- financial socio-economic physical political and regulatory transactional reputational technological Operational management is supported in its role by a multi-disciplinary team, known as the Risk Control Group.
This group is formed from senior representatives of the central finance, internal audit, information technology, legal, insurance and human resources function and meets at least four times a year.
During 2006, the Group met four times.
It is attended by invitation by the chairman of the Audit Committee and representatives of the external auditor, at the discretion of the chairman.
Its responsibilities include the regular review of risks, the identification of the need for corresponding controls and the monitoring of the design, communication and implementation of new controls and adaptation of existing controls to improve their effectiveness.
The Risk Control Group has a reporting line direct to the main Board.
The internal audit function reports on matters of financial control each month directly to the Board.
Major commercial, technological and financial risks are assessed at the Boards annual planning meeting, which reviews the companys principal areas of business and considers any adaptation to the companys business strategy required to meet specific commercial and other risks or threats.
The conclusions are incorporated in the companys business strategy and formally adopted by the Board.
The Board has established a strong control framework within which the group operates.
This contains the following elements: Management structure Pendragon is a large multi-franchise retailer of motor vehicles and ancillary services.
During 2006, following the acquisition of Reg Vardy plc, the group has implemented a divisional structure.
Today, the group consists of two principal operating divisions: Stratstone, which represents our luxury franchises and Evans Halshaw which represents our volume franchises and five support divisions Information Technology, Parts Supply & Distribution, Finance & Insurance, Leasing and Marketing each headed by a Divisional Managing Director.
Each Divisional Managing Director participates in a bi-monthly operational review meeting, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
Best practice meetings for each division, at which key operating controls and improvements to their implementation are discussed, are generally held monthly, chaired by the Divisional Managing Director for the division.
Communication There is an embedded culture of openness of communication between management and the Board on matters relating to risk and control.
Face-toface and video-conferencing meetings of all operational teams occur regularly.
Processes are reinforced at operational meetings and via the companys intranet and video communications.
Financial reporting The group operates to comprehensive management reporting disciplines which involve the preparation of financial plans by all operating units.
The plans are reviewed by executive management and are subsequently passed to the Board for approval.
Monthly actual results are reported against the approved plans.
Investment appraisal The group has a clearly defined framework for capital expenditure including appropriate authorisation levels, beyond which such expenditure requires the approval of the executive directors and, for larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals, the Board.
There is a prescribed format for capital expenditure applications which places heavy emphasis on the commercial strategic logic for the investment and demands a detailed financial presentation of the business case.
23 Functional reporting The group has identified a number of key areas which are subject to periodic reporting to the Board.
These areas are given particular emphasis through the operation of appropriately constituted teams which meet regularly, and report to the Board via a designated executive director.
These include the following central functions: group finance, treasury, corporate tax, value added tax, health and safety, human resources, information systems, internal audit, insurance, legal, payroll, property, security and training.
Risk Control The work of the risk control group is described on page 23.
Its remit includes the identification and assessment of new risks facing the groups businesses, business continuity planning and the establishment of policies and procedures for risk control for implementation in the groups businesses.
It has the power to co-opt representatives from the groups operating business to assist in the design of new controls and the improvement of existing ones.
A twice-yearly review of the risk control groups work is included in the Boards agenda.
Processes, responsibilities and monitoring mechanisms and frequencies are defined and communicated to the directors and executives concerned and a regular pattern of meetings and reporting requirements established to ensure that the Board is sufficiently informed of risk management measures to enable them to review the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the group is in a sound financial position with adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed budgets and other financial information.
The financial statements of the group have therefore been prepared on the basis that the group is a going concern.
Shareholder relations The Board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that the company is engaged in dialogue with shareholders which is constructive and fosters mutual understanding of the companys and shareholders objectives.
The Boards statement concerning the respective roles of chairman and chief executive also deals with the companys approach to shareholder communication and is available on the Pendragon PLC website.
The chief executive, Mr T G Finn, is responsible for implementation of the strategy set by the Board.
Among his duties is the conduct of communications with shareholders on the companys performance.
He must ensure that major shareholders have the opportunity for regular dialogue with the company on issues of concern to them, and, in particular, that any changes in policy or strategy are effectively articulated to shareholders.
In the main, shareholder communication is based around meetings with shareholders at key points in the financial reporting year.
These are conducted by the chief executive and the finance director, rather than the non-executive chairman.
In this respect the companys approach is not compliant with the Code.
The directors believe this to be the most practical and efficient way of communicating on matters such as strategic direction, financial performance, underlying market conditions and operational issues.
Issues raised by shareholders on these occasions are carefully noted and fed back to the Board, and, where appropriate, access to the chairman for further discussion is arranged.
Each of the chairman and the senior non-executive director also holds himself available at all times for contact with shareholders.
Unless specifically requested to participate in discussions or to provide information and explanations, each of them will, however, refer enquiries he receives to the chief executive.
If the matter concerns the chairmans remuneration or performance or any other matter with which it is inappropriate for him to deal, it is referred to the senior non-executive director.
During 2006, both private and institutional shareholders have undertaken tours of the companys Loxley House facility to view the technological advances now incorporated into the companys business model for its car retail operations.
The Board is always willing, where practicable, to enter into dialogue with shareholders based on mutual understandings of their respective objectives and being mindful of the companys obligations under the listing rules.
The respective chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are available to answer shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Business at the Annual General Meeting As well as dealing with formal business, the company takes the opportunity afforded at the AGM to provide up-to-date information about the companys trading position and to invite and answer questions from shareholders on its policies and business.
At the AGM a separate resolution is being proposed for each substantive matter.
The companys annual report and financial statements are despatched to shareholders, together with the Notice of Annual General Meeting, giving the requisite period of notice.
The business being proposed at the AGM is summarised in the Notice of AGM, at page 87 of this report.
