CORPORATE GO VERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL COMPLIANCE The Board has an internal procedure to evaluate the performance of the whole Board, each Committee, the Chairman, each individual Director and the Group General Counsel & The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Company Secretary.
This evaluation procedure was carried out governance with the aim of continuing to enhance its for the year by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary effectiveness.
The Annual Report is the principal means of seeking all participants views on a range of prescribed reporting to shareholders on the Boards governance policies.
questions designed to ensure objective evaluation of This section sets out how the main and supporting principles of performance.
The participants responses were then summarised good corporate governance contained in Section 1 of the and evaluated by the Group General Counsel & Company Combined Code have been applied by the Company in practice.
Secretary for the Board to consider and determine whether any Throughout the year, the Company considers that it has changes were necessary for the Board to be more effective.
complied with the provisions of the Code.
Overall performance was considered to be satisfactory but a number of minor issues were identified where changes could be THE BOARD made to improve performance.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated separately by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board of Directors at the end of the year comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-executive All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship Directors.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to of the Groups affairs with the Non-executive Directors having a be independent and Gerard Connell is the Senior independent particular responsibility for ensuring strategies proposed for the Non-executive Director.
The biographies on page 28 development of the business are critically reviewed.
The Nondemonstrate a broad range of business and financial experience executive Directors also critically examine the operational and and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles financial performance of the Group and fulfil a key role in of Chairman and the Chief Executives of South West Water and corporate accountability through their membership of various Viridor Waste as recorded in the descriptions of the roles Committees of the Board.
Group Policy allocates the tasks of approved by the Board.
All Directors are subject to re-election giving detailed consideration to specified matters, to when they have held office for three years or more.
monitoring executive actions and to assessing reward to the Board Committees as follows: During the year, the Board met in accordance with its schedule of meetings on 11 occasions and at each meeting all Directors AUDIT COMMITTEE were present with the exception of Bob Baty and Gerard Connell each on one occasion and Dinah Nichols on two occasions.
The The Audit Committee was chaired by Gerard Connell, who has Board also held two special meetings during the year at which current and relevant financial experience, and the other all Directors were present with the exception of Bob Baty and members of the Committee were Kate Mortimer and Dinah Kate Mortimer each on one occasion.
In accordance with Group Nichols.
During the year, the Committee met on six occasions Policy, the Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its and all members were present at each meeting.
In discharging decision and delegates more detailed consideration of certain its Terms of Reference, the Committee receives reports and matters to Board Committees, to the subsidiary boards of South meets regularly in particular to: West Water and Viridor Waste and to the Executive Directors and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary as appropriate.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Recognising this policy, the matters reserved to the Board Group, including a review of significant reporting include the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and judgements, prior to approval by the Board: disposals, major items of capital expenditure, authority levels keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal for other expenditure, risk management and approval of the controls, including all material financial, operational and Strategic Plan and annual operating budgets.
The Board compliance controls and risk management systems: operates by receiving written reports circulated in advance from the Executive Directors and the Group General Counsel & monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal Company Secretary on matters within their respective business audit function and approve the annual internal audit plan: areas within the Group.
Under the guidance of the Chairman, all review the findings of the internal audit function and review matters before the Board are discussed openly and and monitor managements responsiveness to such findings: presentations and advice are received on occasions from other oversee the relationship with the external auditors senior executives within the Group or external advisers.
including their remuneration, appointment, re-appointment Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group and removal and in addition monitor their independence General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has and objectivity including the supply of non-audit services: established a procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil receive internal control reports from the external auditors their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the and meet with them in the absence of management at least Companys expense.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed once a year to discuss their remit and any issues arising from on a regular basis.
36 The Committee pays particular attention to the independence NOMINATION COMMITTEE and objectivity of the auditors and has established a policy for The Nomination Committee was chaired by Ken Harvey and also the engagement of the auditors for non-audit work by the comprised Kate Mortimer, Dinah Nichols and Gerard Connell.
This involves the Group Director of Finance setting out in meets as and when required to select and recommend to the a report to the Committee reasons for appointing the auditors Board suitable candidates for appointment as Executive and for any material work and obtaining the approval of the Non-executive Directors, determine the nomination process and Committee to such appointment which the Committee will only review succession plans.
During the year it met on one occasion grant if it is satisfied that the auditors independence and at which all members were present to review succession plans objectivity are safeguarded.
This is achieved by reviewing the for the Executive Directors of the Board and senior management: appointment with the auditors as considered appropriate and to formally determine the selection process for an Executive receiving from the auditors at the year end a letter setting out Director appointment which involved open advertising and the how the auditors believe their independence and objectivity engagement of an external search consultancy followed by have been maintained.
In addition, the Companys current interviews of a shortlist of candidates by the Committee and auditors ensure that the senior partner responsible for the subsequent meetings with the preferred candidate by the external audit of the Group remains responsible for such audit Executive Directors: and to consider the appointment for a third for no more than five years and that there is an independent three year term of a Non-executive Director.
partner who is involved in planning and in the reviewing of the final accounts of the Company and also any critical matters that The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration and may be identified in the audit.
Details of audit and non-audit Nomination Committees are available upon request to the fees are contained in note 6 to the financial statements on page Company Secretary and are also set out on the Companys 59.
The Executive Directors attend by invitation and the website at www.
co. uk Companys auditors have the right of direct access to the Committee without the presence of any Executive Director.
ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE Towards the end of the year, in accordance with guidance issued The Environment Committee was chaired by Bruce Hewett by the Audit Committee, a review was undertaken of the a co-opted member and former Non-executive Director of the provision of external audit services and a number of audit firms Company and also comprised the Chief Executives of South were invited to submit and present proposals to the Company for West Water and Viridor Waste.
The Committee met four times audit services.
Following a detailed selection process, including during the year with all members present except for Bob Baty on presentations by a shortlist of audit firms to the Audit one occasion.
It is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the Committee, the Chairman of the Company and the Group Director environmental policies of Group companies, their achievement of Finance,  LLP were selected to of environmental and social objectives and targets and for continue as the auditors of the Group to be recommended at the considering the Groups annual corporate responsibility report.
Annual General Meeting on 27 July 2006.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROL The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Kate Mortimer.
Wider aspects of internal control Gerard Connell and Dinah Nichols were the other members of the Committee.
The Committee met on seven occasions during the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal year at which all members were present.
The Committee is control including financial control and for reviewing its responsible for determining the remuneration and terms of effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than engagement of the Chairman and the remuneration and terms of eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and employment of the Executive Directors and senior management can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against of the Group.
Members of the Remuneration Committee do not material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Directors report on remuneration, which also provides more by the Company that have been in place throughout the year information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee, 2005 06 and up to the date of the approval of this Annual appears on pages 29 to 35.
The Board confirms that it continues to apply procedures in accordance with the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance annexed to the Combined Code.
As part of these procedures, the Board has a formalised risk management policy which provides for the identification of key risks in relation to the achievement of the business objectives of the Group.
This policy is applied by all business units within the Group in accordance with an annual timetable.
37 CORPORATE GO VERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL Risk identification 2005 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, both the Audit Committee and the Board were satisfied A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually by the with the effectiveness of the risk management policy and the management of each business to identify financial and non-financial internal control framework and their operation within the Group.
risks and is continuously updated.
Each business then receives as part of its regular management reports an enhanced and focused GOING CONCERN assessment of key risks against corporate objectives.
The Board at each meeting receives from Executive Directors details of any new high level risks identified and how they are to be managed, together The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries, that with details of any changes to existing risks and their management.
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to The subsidiary Boards of South West Water and Viridor Waste also continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For receive at each meeting similar reports in respect of their own areas this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in of responsibility.
All senior managers are required to certify on an preparing the financial statements.
annual basis that they have established effective controls to manage risks and to operate in compliance with legislation and Group DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT procedures.
All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of effective control and risk management is embedded within the The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare organisation and that the Group is in a position to react financial statements for each financial year which give a true appropriately to new risks as they arise.
Details of key risks affecting and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the the Group are set out in the Business Review on pages 18 to 22.
Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss Internal control framework of the Group for the financial year.
As well as the risk management policy of the Group there is an In preparing the financial statements, appropriate accounting established internal control framework which comprises: policies have been used and consistently applied and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
All a a clearly defined structure which delegates an appropriate relevant accounting standards which the Directors consider to level of authority, responsibility and accountability, including be applicable have been followed.
responsibility for internal financial control, to management of operating units: The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that accounting b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function with an records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the annual budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also financial position of the Company and the Group and which monitors monthly achieved results and updated forecasts for enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the year against budget: the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for safeguarding c documented financial control procedures.
Managers of the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for operating units are required to confirm annually that they the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
have adequate financial controls in operation and to report all material areas of financial risk.
Compliance with procedures is RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS reviewed by the Companys internal audit function: and d an investment appraisal process for evaluating proposals for The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional all major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with defined shareholders and has a well developed investor relations levels of approval and a system for monitoring the progress of programme.
During the year, meetings with institutional capital projects.
shareholders were held and were attended by the Group Director Internal control review of Finance and the Companys Investor Relations Manager and, on certain occasions, the Chairman, the Chief Executive of An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall internal control South West Water and the Chief Executive of Viridor Waste compliance by the Group is now undertaken in respect of each also attended.
The Board encourages the participation of calendar year previously each financial year ending 31 March to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and complies with assist the Audit Committee in considering the Group internal audit the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of relations with plan for the forthcoming financial year and also the Business Review shareholders.
The Group Director of Finance reports to the Board for the Annual Report.
The Group General Counsel & Company regularly on major shareholders views about the Company.
The Secretary initially carried out the review with Directors and senior Group Director of Finance also conducts surveys of shareholder management for consideration by the Audit Committee and opinion, usually on an annual basis, which are evaluated and subsequently for final evaluation by the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation and effectiveness of the internal control framework and also annually By Order of the Board reviews the scope of work, authority and resources of the Companys KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary internal audit function and reports to the Board on such reviews.
