Corporate Governance The Board acknowledges that by adopting and implementing the highest standards REMUNERATION COMMITTEE of corporate governance, it sets the standard and values for the entire Group.
Hamish Leslie Melville retired as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on The Board seeks to comply with best practice in all areas of corporate governance 21 April 2006 and his position was taken by Adam Applegarth.
The other members and sets out below how the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate of the Committee during 2006 were David Thompson and Neil Davidson.
Governance the Code have been adopted and implemented by the Company.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of DIRECTORS the Chairman and the executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee undertook a thorough review of The Board consists of four executive Directors and five non-executive Directors.
remuneration for executive Directors during 2006 and approval will be sought The executive Directors provide a direct line of control between the Company at the forthcoming AGM for a new remuneration policy for executive Directors and its operating businesses.
The non-executive Directors provide a balance to from 1 January 2007. the Board and bring a wide breadth of experience.
The Board considers all non-executive Directors to be independent.
The Senior Independent Director Full details of the Remuneration Policy and the proposed remuneration package is David Thompson.
for each executive Director in 2007 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 41.
Details of the remuneration package for each Director serving Hamish Leslie Melville has completed more than eleven years service as a during 2006 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45. non-executive Director.
Despite this long service, the Board considers Hamish Leslie Melville to be independent.
This is because his long standing appointment In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the does not in any way affect his objectivity and his ability to advise and question the Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders for their approval at the Annual executive Directors, particularly in respect of strategy and the Companys financial General Meeting on 19 April 2007. affairs.
His long association with the Company has given him a sound and detailed knowledge of the Companys business which has enabled him to consider and ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT evaluate information and responses from the executive Directors quickly and The Company has an Audit Committee to whom the external auditors, KPMG concisely.
His wise counsel has contributed significantly to the Companys success.
During 2006 the Audit Committee was wholly comprised of The Chairman has reviewed Hamish Leslie Melvilles performance and he independent non-executive Directors.
The members of the Committee are David believes that his performance continues to be very effective.
The Board considers it Thompson Chairman, Neil Davidson and Nicholas Wrigley, who was appointed important to continue to have access to his judgement in managing the continued on 19 October 2006, the date Hamish Leslie Melville retired from the Committee.
growth and expansion of the Company.
Hamish Leslie Melville will retire and be All members of the Committee have recent relevant financial experience: please see available for re-election to the Board on an annual basis.
Hamish Leslie Melville the Directors biographies on pages 34 and 35. retired from the Audit Committee with effect from 19 October 2006.
The role of the Audit Committee is to review the Companys financial reporting, The Board meets six times a year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for monitor the Companys internal controls and Group Risk management function its consideration and decision.
This schedule includes the approval of financial and and oversee the Companys relations with external auditors.
marketing strategy, dividend policy, approval of annual and interim results, major The Committees Terms of Reference were adopted on 25 February 2004. investments, review of performance, monitoring risk, ensuring adequate financial During the year the Board reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and no resources are available and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed on amendments were made.
The Terms of Reference of the Group Risk management an annual basis.
function were recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board The Directors normally attend all Board meetings and Committee meetings of and were unchanged in 2006. which they are a member.
During the year David Bryant, Hamish Leslie Melville, The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
The Committee agreed Neil Davidson, Adam Applegarth and Nicholas Wrigley were unable to attend the nature and scope of the audit with the auditors and monitored the quarterly one Board meeting each.
Sir Chips Keswick was unable to attend two Board findings of the auditors and Group Risk.
The Committee regularly meets the meetings.
Neil Davidson was unable to attend one Audit and one Remuneration auditors without the presence of the Companys management.
Committee meeting and Nicholas Wrigley was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee formulates and oversees the Company policy on monitoring auditor objectivity and independence in relation to non-audit services.
The policy The Board undertakes a written self-evaluation of its performance and a verbal is to ensure that the nature of non-audit services performed or the fee income evaluation of the performance of its Remuneration and Nomination Committees relative to the audit fee does not compromise or is seen to compromise the and the individual Directors.
The Audit Committee undertakes a written auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditors are excluded from self-evaluation of its performance.
The non-executive Directors undertake a undertaking a range of work on behalf of the Company which includes appraisal verbal annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account or valuation services, management functions, litigation support, legal accounting the views of the executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company The Company has had a whistle blowing procedure in place for a number of years Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training, at the which is publicised in the Staff Handbook.
All employees may raise concerns about Companys expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
All executive Directors malpractice or improper or potentially illegal behaviour in confidence without have twelve month rolling contracts.
The non-executive Directors do not have concern of victimisation or disciplinary action.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The members of the Nomination Committee until 20 April 2006 were Duncan Davidson Chairman, Sir Chips Keswick, Hamish Leslie Melville and David Thompson.
Duncan Davidson and Sir Chips Keswick retired on 20 April 2006 and John White was appointed as Chairman to the Committee.
The membership of the Committee is now John White Chairman, Hamish Leslie Melville, David Thompson and Adam Applegarth following his appointment on 19 October 2006.
The Committee met once during 2006.
46 Persimmon Plc Corporate Governance INTERNAL CONTROL COMBINED CODE The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal control, having The Board supports the high standards in corporate governance and continues to continued to operate the procedures necessary to implement the guidance issued review the Code as well as the Companys procedures to maintain proper control in September 1999 the Turnbull Committee Report throughout the year.
The Company complied with the Code throughout 2006.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of The Board has always sought good relations with the Companys shareholders appropriate internal control systems.
All employees have some responsibility for and believes it is important that shareholders receive timely information on their internal control as part of their accountability for achieving objectives.
As well as the announcement of interim and final results, the Company issues regular trading statements to the London Stock Exchange.
The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the Boards responsibilities with respect to risk and internal control.
Specifically this includes The Directors understand that it is important for both private and institutional determining appropriate control procedures and the review of the effectiveness shareholders to have the opportunity to raise concerns or discuss matters with of internal control.
The members of the Risk Committee until 20 April 2006 them.
The Chairman John White and the Senior Independent Director David were John White, Mike Farley, John Millar and Mike Killoran.
The members Thompson maintain contact with major shareholders to understand their issues after this date were John White, Mike Farley, Mike Killoran and the Divisional and concerns.
Mike Farley and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining Chief Executives David Thornton, Jeff Fairburn and Nigel Greenaway.
The Risk appropriate communications with institutional investors.
All the Directors attend Committee reports to the Audit Committee, which maintains oversight of the the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions at Risk Committees activities.
As part of its ongoing activities, the Group Risk management function has updated the Groups risk assessment during the year.
The results of this process have been By order of the Board reported to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused programme of work designed to improve business processes and increase internal control effectiveness.
The Group Risk management function has established a risk intranet system to further embed risk management within the Company.
Neil Francis, Group Company Secretary The processes that the Risk Committee has applied in reviewing the effectiveness 23 February 2007 of the system of internal control include the following: Ensuring that there is a continuous detailed involvement in land acquisition assessment and work in progress, together with regular site visits and discussion with site based personnel by senior management: Review of representations on risk and control from all Managing Directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within their operating businesses: Review of representations on risk and control from key head office and divisional management: Review of reports produced by the Group Risk management function and external audit on internal control and management of risk: Ongoing review of Group performance in comparison to operational forecasts and financial budgets: Involvement in individual operating businesses board discussions, specifically operational board meetings where all aspects of operational performance are analysed.
The Risk Committee met six times during the year ensuring that there has been an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks that are faced by the Company.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
