Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 21 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance five Remuneration Committee and three Nominations Committee meetings throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys that were held, except for one meeting each of the Audit and Remuneration shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Committees that Mr Lester was unable to attend and one meeting of the principles identied in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance are Nominations Committee which Mr Roques was unable to attend.
Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of the Nominations Committees are available on the Companys web site at provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year, www.
The membership of the Committees appears on except that Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman did not page 18. attend meetings with major shareholders and the separate meeting of the The Non-Executive Directors held two meetings during the year without Non-Executive Directors to assess the Chairman was held after the the Executive Directors present to discuss, among other things, the year-end.
These points are explained below.
performance of the Company and the Executive Directors.
As explained below, the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive were There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent combined for part of the year as a temporary measure following the professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary, in the resignation of the Chief Executive.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is Directors charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
From January to July 2005 the Board consisted of a Non-Executive The Board has adopted a number of corporate governance policies, Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the including a Group Code of Ethics covering issues such as conicts of Board to be independent, and three Executive Directors.
On the resignation interest, fraud and whistle-blowing.
A copy of the Code is also available on of Mr John Hirst in July 2005, Sir Peter Gershon became the Companys the Companys web site.
The Company has implemented arrangements Executive Chairman and the number of Executive Directors reduced to with an independent organisation to receive information from employees for two.
On 3rd April 2006 Harriet Green joined the Board as the Companys whistle-blowing purposes.
The Company has also adopted policies dealing Chief Executive officer and Sir Peter resumed his role as Non-Executive with share dealing and inside information.
Mr John Roques is the Companys Senior Independent To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to discharge Non-Executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot resolve, or In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of where the normal channels are inappropriate.
papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion Biographies of the Board members appear on page 18.
These indicate the documents regarding specic matters.
In addition, individual Directors meet high level and broad range of experience that they possess.
The Directors with senior management and are encouraged to make periodic site visits, knowledge of the Groups business and of legal, accounting and market including overseas where appropriate.
Senior managers are regularly invited developments is frequently updated by presentations made at Board and to Board meetings and make business presentations.
A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place for new The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors include the time Directors.
This includes presentations from management and site visits.
commitment expected of them and conrmation that they have sufficient During the year a performance evaluation was carried out covering the time available to meet this commitment.
Non-Executive Directors are Board, each of the principal Board Committees and individual Directors.
required to inform the Board of any changes to their other appointments.
The evaluation process consisted of the completion by each Director of a questionnaire devised for the purpose.
The responses were collated by the The Board Company Secretary.
The results were considered by the Chairmen of the Board and the relevant Committees and by the Board as a whole.
The The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of evaluation of individual Directors was considered by the Chairman and the the Group through the development of a strategy designed to create evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was considered by the shareholder value.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director discussed and exercises control over the performance of each operating company the evaluation of the Chairman with him and, after the year-end, the within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring assessment of the Chairman was discussed with the other Non-Executive performance against those targets.
Directors without the Chairman present.
In each case, appropriate action The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly dened was taken during the year.
and, in normal circumstances, separate.
The Group Chief Executive is Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of responsible for the executive management of the Groups business: the the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by Chairman runs the Board.
During the period from Mr Hirsts resignation shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require until the appointment of Harriet Green, the role of Chairman and Chief that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every Executive officer were combined while Sir Peter Gershon acted as the three years.
On Harriets appointment Sir Peter ceased to have any executive responsibilities.
Remuneration The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as required.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals and treasury Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 29. policy.
In certain areas, specic responsibility is delegated to committees of Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys the Board within dened terms of reference.
remuneration policy also appear in the Remuneration Report.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have, respectively, five and four Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full Board scheduled meetings each year, although additional meetings may be held meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where the where required.
The Nominations Committee meets as required.
recommendations have a direct bearing on his or her own remuneration During the year, all Directors attended the five Board meetings that were package.
The details of each Executive Directors individual package are held, apart from Mr Lester, who was absent for one meeting.
All of the xed by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by the members of the respective committees attended the five Audit Committee, full Board.
22 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Nominations Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, designed to safeguard shareholder The Nominations Committee, comprising the Chairman, the Senior investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee reviews Independent Director and Mr Lester, meets as necessary.
and monitors the systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board at least The Committees principal function is to provide advice and annually, while responsibility for the system rests with the Executive recommendations to the Board on any appointments to the Board.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, The Committee also keeps the composition and balance of the Board evaluating and managing significant business risks.
However, any system under review.
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives and is designed to manage rather than eliminate During the year, the Committee was involved in the appointment of the risk of the Company failing to meet its business objectives.
Harriet Green as Chief Executive officer.
As well as making recommendations to the Board as a whole, Committee members consulted Non-Executive and The Board regularly reviews aspects of the Groups strategic direction.
At Executive Directors individually on this appointment.
An external search the business unit level, strategic objectives, annual plans and performance agency was used to identify suitable candidates.
targets are set by the executive team in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
There is a dened process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group.
Audit and internal control In addition to this process, businesses are subject to: The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the Groups financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting a quarterly, comprehensive review by the executive team procedures.
In fullling this role, the Committee receives and reviews work independent internal and external audits which focus on areas of high carried out by the Internal and External Auditors and their findings.
The risk which are reported to the executive team and the Audit Committee Companys Internal Audit department works to an annual programme developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as covering specic a thorough budget and target-setting process matters arising during the year.
a monthly reporting and forecasting process reviewing performance The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys against agreed objectives web site.
In addition, and following a recommendation from the Smith appropriate delegated authority levels which prescribe the limits to which Report, the Committee has also adopted and implemented a Group-wide the Group can be committed policy restricting the appointment of former employees of the External Auditors.
established financial policies and procedures, including a detailed quarterly checklist completed as part of the Companys quarterly Mr John Roques, the Committees Chairman, was formerly the senior financial reporting process partner at the accounting rm Deloitte & Touche and brings financial expertise to the Committee.
other risk management policies and procedures such as health and safety, environmental and quality assurance.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions under review.
This now includes an annual An executive management committee, the Disclosure and Risk Committee, review of the effectiveness of the External Auditors, including their quality monitors and reviews disclosure and risk management processes and control procedures.
During the year the Head of Internal Audit carried out reports to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers these a self-assessment of the Internal Audit Departments effectiveness in reports, alongside other reports from the Internal Audit department and the accordance with ICAEW guidance and the results of that review were External Auditors, to arrive at a balanced assessment of control effectiveness presented to and considered by the Committee.
The Disclosure and Risk Committee also reviews disclosures made by the Company to the investment community before they The independence and objectivity of the External Auditors is also are considered by the Board.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of its activities and all Board members receive copies of the minutes of Audit non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to Committee meetings.
29th January 2006 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred appear in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The The statement of the Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts non-audit fees were paid in respect of assurance work including taxation appears on page 20. and are considered by the Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the Auditors.
Going concern The External Auditors appointment is subject to review every four years by After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Committee and the lead audit partner is rotated at least every five years.
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in The Committee also maintains a formal policy on the provision of non-audit operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they services by the Auditors, which is reviewed each year.
This policy prohibits continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
the provision of certain services and requires that others are subject to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman.
This policy allows specic tax compliance services within dened monetary limits to be pre-approved by Communication with stakeholders the Committee at the beginning of the year.
All other permitted non-audit The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its services are considered on a case-by-case basis.
At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with information on all There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as non-audit services provided by the Auditors and the estimated cost of such general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
The Committee monitors such costs, in the context of the audit Company introduced quarterly financial reporting in order to improve the level fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value of non-audit services does of information available to all shareholders.
All Company announcements are not increase to a level where it has the potential to affect the Auditors published on the Companys web site, together with presentation materials.
The Board regards the discussion of the Companys strategy as primarily The Committee also receives an annual conrmation of independence from part of the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of the regular the Auditors.
meetings held with institutional shareholders.
During the year, Sir Peter Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the Gershon discussed strategy and governance with institutional shareholders applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Combined Code.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 23 in his capacity as Executive Chairman.
The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and governance matters.
While other Non-Executive Directors do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if this were requested by shareholders.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are usually available to take questions at the meeting.
As discussed in the Directors Report, employee communication is given high priority.
This has included the establishment of European and UK Works Councils.
