39 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board recognises the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.
The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
Compliance statement This report set out on pages 39 to 49 describes how the Group has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
In respect of the period from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006, the Board considers that the Group has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
The Board Board structure The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and five non-executive directors.
In accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals, David Kappler and Robert Schofield, have been appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
David Felwick has been appointed the senior independent director.
The Board considers that all the non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement and within the definition of this term in the Combined Code.
The Combined Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as marketing, customer and consumer focus, corporate finance, general finance and corporate governance.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
Directors and their interests The following directors held office during the year ended 31 December 2006: Designation Appointment Reappointment date David Kappler Chairman 14 June 2006 Robert Schofield Chief Executive 22 June 2004 Paul Thomas Finance Director 22 June 2004 David Felwick CBE Senior independent director 19 July 2004 Sharon Hintze Non-executive director 14 June 2006 Louise Makin Non-executive director 1 October 2006 Ian McHoul Non-executive director 19 July 2004 Ian Ramsay Non-executive director 14 June 2006 Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 60.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Group and has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which includes setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives, approval of annual operating and capital budgets, dividend policy, overseeing the Groups internal control systems and ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board normally meets at least six times in each calendar year and also meets on other occasions as necessary.
Meetings are usually held at the Companys head office, in St Albans, but the meetings also provide an opportunity for the Board as a whole to visit the Groups operating facilities.
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and the attendance at those meetings is set out on page 40.
40 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued The Chairman is primarily responsible for the operation of the Board, and sets the agendas in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Board papers, including copies of the minutes of Committee meetings held since the previous Board meeting, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the executive management of the Group and for implementing Board strategy and policy within the approved budgets and timescales.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director and the Operations Board, which consists of the senior executives who head up the Groups principal operations.
The Chairman, David Kappler, is currently a non-executive director of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
He resigned from his position as a non-executive director with HMV Group plc on 6 July 2006.
The Board of Premier Foods plc is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
The biographies of the directors and members of the senior management team appear on pages 6 and 30 respectively.
Procedures are in place which allow directors to take independent professional advice in the course of their duties, and all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and where a director has a concern over any unresolved business he is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Should he later resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring it to the attention of the Board.
The Company purchases directors and officers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Meetings The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees and individual attendances thereat during the financial year to 31 December 2006.
In addition to the meetings detailed below, 16 additional Board or Board Committee meetings were held during the year for the consideration of specific business.
Group Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings held 8 5 3 4 David Kappler 8 5 3 3 Robert Schofield 8 4 1 Paul Thomas 8 5 David Felwick CBE 8 5 3 4 Sharon Hintze 8 5 2 4 Louise Makin 1 1 Ian McHoul 8 5 3 3 Ian Ramsay 8 1 3 4 Dr Louise Makin was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2006 and was entitled to attend two Board meetings and one Remuneration Committee meeting.
Directors interests in contracts No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of significance, other than a service contract see directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 60, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Remuneration The directors remuneration report, providing a statement of the Companys policy on directors and senior managers remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements is set out on pages 50 to 60.
The directors remuneration report sets out the status of the Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code with regard to remuneration matters and includes a statement on the Companys policy on directors and senior managers remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements.
A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
41 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Reappointment The Companys Articles of Association require directors appointed by the Board during the year to retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
Louise Makin will so retire and a proposal for her re-election will be made at the Companys AGM on 10 May 2007.
Dr Makin, who was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007, following recommendation from the Nomination Committee, brings a wealth of scientific knowledge and experience to the Board.
Details of the Nomination Committees appointment process can be found on page 42.
There is also a process of rotation which ensures that no director holds office for more than three years without being reappointed at an AGM and also that one-third of directors rounded down will be required to retire and seek reappointment at each subsequent AGM.
Consequently David Fenwick and Ian McHoul offer themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 10 May 2007.
The Nomination Committee has formally reviewed the performance, contribution and commitment of each of the above named directors retiring by rotation and has recommended their appointment to the Board.
Board Committees The Board has established an effective Committee structure to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of these Committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website, www.
Audit Committee Ian McHoul chairs the Audit Committee.
Its other members are David Felwick and Sharon Hintze.
Only independent nonexecutive directors who have no links with external auditors may serve on the Committee.
One member of the Committee, Ian McHoul, as Group Finance Director of S & N plc, has been identified by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least four times a year and will meet the internal and external auditors at least twice a year without the executive directors present.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the interim and annual accounts and reviewing the scope and findings of the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations under the Combined Code in areas of risk management and internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and that an effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts remains with the Board.
The Committee will keep under review the external auditors independence including any non-audit services that are to be provided by the external auditors.
The auditors are also requested to confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal policy has been developed and implemented, which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy incorporates a fee limit, above which a formal tender process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained prior to any proposed appointment.
Additionally, the use of delegated authorities to appoint the external auditors is routinely reported to the Committee.
The Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing policy whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any of its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements to investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
During the year, the committee: Received regular reports from the internal audit function.
Ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities and effectiveness, and agreed the annual audit plan.
Established a Process Improvement Steering Group to prioritise and co-ordinate internal control process improvement activities.
Conducted an internal review of the effectiveness of the Groups external auditors.
Conducted an internal review of its own effectiveness.
Approved a new Non-audit services policy.
Received regular reports from the Risk Review Group identifying the top ten business risks.
Reviewed matters relating to the Groups key performance indicators and proposals to embed good governance throughout the organisation.
42 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee David Felwick chairs the Remuneration Committee.
The other members of the Committee are Sharon Hintze, Ian Ramsay and Louise Makin who was appointed on 1 October 2006.
Only independent, non-executive directors may serve on the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet at least twice a year.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on remuneration of executive directors and senior managers and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the executive directors of the Company and such members of senior management as it is delegated to consider, including pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 60.
Nomination Committee David Kappler chairs the Nomination Committee, and its other members are Ian McHoul, David Felwick, Ian Ramsay and Louise Makin, who was appointed on 1 October 2006.
David Kappler will not chair the Committee when it is dealing with a successor to the Chairmanship of the Company.
The Committee, which will normally meet not less than twice a year, has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The Nomination Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent.
This process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing directors, to assess which of the potential short listed candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard also to the need for succession planning.
During the year, the committee: Presented a long-term succession plan to the Board.
Approved directors for reappointment at the AGM.
Approved the appointment of a new non-executive director.
The terms of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
Performance and effectiveness reviews The Board follows a performance evaluation procedure which measures its own performance and that of its Committees.
In 2006 this was an internal process and was combined with individual performance evaluation as described below: The Chairman appraises the Chief Executive annually.
The senior non-executive director meets with all the non-executive directors to discuss the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are appraised annually as part of the Committee effectiveness review process and any non-executive directors due for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting are appraised initially by the Chairman, and thereafter their suitability for re-election is confirmed by the Nomination Committee prior to those non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election.
The senior management are formally appraised annually by the Chief Executive, who also appraises the Finance Director.
43 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Shareholders Relations with shareholders The Board recognises that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of its shareholders, and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The interim and annual reports remain the primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders, and the Groups website, www.
co. uk, contains the full text of such reports, together with Stock Exchange Announcements, after their release to the market.
The Company announces its results on a half-yearly basis.
Presentations are made to analysts and major shareholders following the release of the interim and year-end results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are also available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent director are available to discuss issues and concerns of shareholders.
Shareholders are also provided with the opportunity to ask questions of the Board, including the Chairmen of the various committees, and to present their views at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with the Annual Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, and details of the proxy votes for and against each resolution or in respect of which a vote is withheld are announced after the result of the vote on the show of hands and made available on the companys website.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and ensuring that there is a process in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Turnbull Report to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for reviewing the Groups system of internal control and for regularly monitoring its effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is to provide an ongoing process that identifies, evaluates and manages the risks that are significant in relation to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives.
The internal control systems have been designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board and Audit Committee have, throughout the year, reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the systems of internal control including financial, operational, compliance control and risk management in accordance with the Combined Code for the year to 31 December 2006.
The principal role of the Internal Audit function is to review the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
The nature and scope of this annual audit programme is determined by the Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar year and may be revised from time to time in circumstances such as the acquisition or disposal of a business or any other significant business development.
The findings of these risk-based audits are reported initially to executive management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action plans as appropriate.
In addition to the internal audit programme, senior business managers are required to complete internal control questionnaires confirming the operation of internal controls within the business units for which they are responsible throughout the year or from the date of acquisition, if this was during the year.
The result of this exercise, which also details any material control breakdowns, to the extent that they have occurred, is reviewed by the Board.
The Groups comprehensive risk review process continued to operate during the year.
Risk registers are built at a corporate, business unit and commercial level.
The quarterly risk review is chaired by the Group Finance Director and is responsible for the identification of emerging risks and ensuring that progress and focus is maintained on implementing agreed action plans.
Progress against action plans and key performance indicators are reported to the Operations Board on a monthly basis.
These include social, environmental and ethical risks see also pages 44 to 45 which detail our approach to corporate responsibility.
In addition the Operations Board formally reviews and reassesses the top ten risks of the company on an annual basis and the results of this review are considered by the plc Board.
The risk management process is reviewed bi-annually with the Audit Committee.
44 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued Risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that key operational risks are effectively managed.
The Board has considered and approved the risk management policy and risk appetite of the Company and has delegated the regular review of these risks to the Audit Committee.
The Board annually reviews the top 10 operational risks of the Company, but delegates day-to-day responsibility for risk management to the Operations Board.
Through its normal business operations, the Group is exposed to a number of principal risks and uncertainties which could impact on the results of the Group.
Customers and consumers The Group operates in a highly competitive consumer market.
Its ability to compete effectively will require the successful sales and marketing of its existing products, new product development and innovation and cost rationalisation.
New product development takes into account changing trends in consumer preferences, including dietary and nutritional concerns.
Market factors and the need to develop and provide modified or alternative products may increase costs, and either or both of these factors may adversely affect the result of operations.
The consumer market in which the Group operates is not normally subject to the volatility in purchasing decision-making that is experienced in other consumer goods markets: however, the demand for convenience foods can be influenced by such things as weather, including changes in the prevailing average monthly temperatures, as experienced in the second half of 2006.
Our products The Group owns a number of popular UK domestic brands, and brand name recognition is a key factor in the success of many of these products.
There is a need to monitor closely all various trademarks, whether registered or not, to ensure the appropriate level of protection for current needs, whilst at the same time anticipating any future strategies.
Raw materials The prices of raw materials used in the business are affected by among other things, the agricultural policies of the UK Government and of the European Union.
A portion of the raw materials used are traded as commodity products, the prices of which are subject to a number of factors that are not in our control.
Movement in the price levels of these raw materials has in the past had, and may in the future have, a corresponding impact on finished product cost.
Any failure to pass through price increases may adversely affect the Groups financial performance.
Regulations Past and present business operations, and particularly those associated with the manufacture of products intended for human consumption, are subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations as a result of which exposure to environmental costs and liabilities, including those associated with divested assets and past activities, may arise.
Future regulatory developments may increase such costs and liabilities and could have an adverse affect on operational results.
As a manufacturer of products intended for human consumption we are subject to extensive regulation from the United Kingdom, and the European Union.
Modifications to existing legislation and or regulation and the introduction of new legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect our operations and the conduct of our business.
45 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Treasury The Groups current levels of bank borrowings require a significant portion of cash flow generated to service this debt.
This may make it difficult for the Group to pursue its business strategy, and this debt level may limit ability to react to changing market conditions, changes in the business and changes in the industry in which we operate.
Because raw materials are sourced from around the world and products are exported to various countries, the Groups financial position and results of operations are subject to currency transaction risk.
Although we manage against this exposure to currency rate fluctuations, sustained movement in exchange rates affects the results of operations.
Pensions Pension expenses are based on actuarial assumptions which have been revised as at 31 December 2006, and are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
The market value of the pension assets could decline and a change in assumptions could affect these pension costs.
Corporate responsibility As one of the largest food producers in the UK, the Group is committed to managing its business in a socially responsible manner.
It believes strongly that to grow and be profitable it must work actively to develop sustainable relationships with its various stakeholders, comprising shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, consumers and the wider communities in which it operates.
The Board is collectively responsible for ensuring that Premier Foods continues to operate in a responsible manner.
Chief Executive, Robert Schofield, takes the leading role in ensuring its approach supports the strategic direction of the Group.
The Groups operating principles and ethics policy statement is available on the website: www.
During 2006 the Group has continued to develop its corporate responsibility strategy within the following key areas: Food quality and safety.
Key Performance Indicator KPI reports covering these areas are reviewed quarterly at the risk review group meetings and are reported monthly to the Operations Board.
The Audit Committee receives a report on CSR activities and performance against targets bi-annually.
Consistent with the previous year, this report and related KPIs measure performance of the core grocery business excluding the effect of acquisitions and disposals.
The KPIs will incorporate Campbells from 2007.
Food quality and safety The Premier Foods Group produces both branded and own-label products for consumption and is responsible for protecting the quality of both much-loved brands, and of the products to which our customers attach their names.
The Groups approach to food quality and safety is enshrined within the Quality Management System that is operated at each site.
A fully documented Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point HACCP is in place for all products, with all critical control points monitored, recorded and verified at each relevant stage of production.
Internal systems are constantly reviewed and opportunities for improvement established, for example, additional x-ray machines for the screening of ingredients were installed onto a number of production lines during the year, and code verification systems developed to eliminate the risk of mislabelling canned products.
In addition all sites are subject to annual British Retail Consortium BRC audits and internal audits by in-house technical teams.
All sites were scored B or above by the appointed external auditors, where B is the second level of a four tier grade system A-D.
It is the Groups intention to maintain or improve these scores during 2007.
46 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued All suppliers are required to comply with raw material specifications supplied by Premier.
This includes the requirement for HACCP systems, and the compliance with Premier standards and other UK and European food safety regulations.
Ingredients suppliers are subject to audit by a specialist team of technical auditors.
Suppliers are risk assessed by reference to product supplied, known potential contaminants, country of origin and volumes handled.
The results are used as a basis for developing the Groups supplier audit plan.
In 2006, 30% 2005: 14% of our ingredient suppliers were audited against a 2006 target of 25%.
Over time, all ingredient suppliers will be audited, the frequency of the audits being dependent on the risk assessment.
During 2007 it is intended that 25% of ingredient suppliers will be audited.
In addition to these audits, suppliers are also regularly issued with self-assessment questionnaires.
As well as auditing suppliers, ingredients have been risk assessed against known contaminants and a testing regime developed that is applied across all sites.
For example 100% of all spices at risk of contamination with illegal colours are tested at accredited laboratories.
We also test incoming honey and peanuts.
The testing regimes are under constant review.
Premier Foods have undertaken a major project with Campden and Chorleywood Food Research Association to establish best practices for the risk assessment of ingredients, regular review, and identification of possible future areas of concern.
Customers and consumers Premier Foods serves a number of large, key customers and works closely with them to ensure that the Group continues to deliver value and quality across all products.
Customer service is central to core business values and there is a commitment to the ongoing development of customer relationships.
The Group continues to put the consumer firmly at the heart of the business.
We are committed to offering a balanced range of dietary choices to suit a wide range of consumers and their different needs at different times throughout the day.
Providing consumers with clear, relevant and reliable information about the product and its content ensures they can continue to rely upon our well-loved brands.
We do not market king-sized or super-sized portions and we are actively reformulating many products to ensure we keep abreast of changing consumer demands.
The Group works closely with the Food Standards Agency FSA to find solutions to issues around the increasing variety of health and ingredient debates.
During the year we contributed 80,000 towards the front-of-pack labelling campaign co-ordinated by the Food and Drink Federation FDF which aims to help consumers make positive dietary choices via clear, consistent and easy to understand nutrition labelling and we are now working through the implementation of Guideline Daily Amounts GDA on our packaging.
We actively participated in Project Neptune, an FDF initiative to reduce the salt content of soups and sauces by 30% over 3 years.
We are progressing well across all our food categories towards the FSAs 2010 salt reduction targets, detailed in their Salt Model, aimed at reducing consumer tolerance to salty food over time.
Many of our products are naturally healthy, and we ensure that we offer choices within categories such as low fat noodles, soups and desserts and low sugar jams and jellies.
We monitor consumer interest and concerns in respect of all aspects of our products and we track our performance towards healthier eating and consumers feedback to ensure we stay alert to their needs.
Along with performance against healthier eating targets, consumer complaints and service levels achieved with our customers are closely monitored as key performance indicators of the business.
Supply chain Premier Foods believes that its supply chain is critical to the quality of its products, and acts fairly with suppliers with the aim of ensuring that they operate to appropriate quality and ethical standards.
Operating in global and emerging markets, the Group recognises that there are challenges within the supply base and opportunities for supplier development.
Premier Foods has been involved in ethical supply chain work since 1992, and is a founding member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, which seeks to identify and promote good practice in the implementation of international labour codes.
An Ethical Assurance Programme, incorporating a number of ethical supplier audits performed by an in-house team of specially trained auditors, has been developed and designed to ensure that suppliers achieve these labour standards through a policy of sustainable and continuous improvement.
The Group believes that the sustainable quality of its products is dependent on the sustainable development of the supply chain and continues to encourage and support its development.
There is an ongoing commitment to working with all our suppliers and to maintaining good working relationships.
47 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Health & Safety Premier Foods is committed to operating high standards of Health & Safety, designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, visitors and others who come into contact with the business.
The Group believes that Health & Safety is a fundamental ingredient to a successful business and we constantly review our standards for effectiveness, driving through and embedding a Health & Safety culture throughout the organisation.
Quarterly internal Health & Safety audits are performed, and measured against the Health & Safety and environment management systems used in the business.
Regular external audits are also undertaken in conjunction with the Groups insurers, aimed specifically at reducing fire risk.
In 2006 the number of Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR per 100,000 employees remained relatively static at 1,970 versus the 2005 performance of 2,000.
The targeted RIDDOR reduction of 10% was not achieved during the year.
Overall accident numbers however fell by 44% from 916 accidents in 2005 to 511 accidents in 2006.
The key driver for this reduction was improved health and safety systems, specifically near miss and accident reporting and root cause analysis.
The RIDDOR target for 2007 is 1,800 per 100,000 employees.
This is in line with the Health & Safety Executive HSE target for Manufacturers of Food and Beverages per the statistics database as at December 2006.
Environment As a leading food producer, Premier Foods is aware of its responsibility to the environment and is committed to monitoring, managing and seeking to continually improve its environmental performance.
The objective is to provide a comprehensive framework of good environmental management practices that are applied across the business and are extended as far as practicable into the supply chain.
The building blocks for the future have been laid in the form of our internal energy strategy, which seeks to reduce the carbon footprint of the Group and reduce risks in terms of restrictions to energy supply, by a combination of major energy projects utilising or capable of utilising renewable energy resources, and site based energy reduction projects.
The Climate Change Levy CCL returns show that the Group has met its 2006 target of 62.47kg carbon per tonne of product and is already meeting its milestone 5 target October 2009 to Sept 2010.
The Group now operates at 16% less carbon per tonne than in 2000 as confirmed by Enviros CCL Report.
The Groups eligible sites are due to join the European Emissions Trading Scheme in 2008 and are working towards participation with this scheme.
Over the CCL year the Group achieved a reduction of 7.3% in its carbon per tonne of product against a target of 7%.
The Group has improved its water use by approximately 10%, based on water used per tonne of product.
This has been achieved through a site based water reduction programme.
For example a major study was completed on the Wisbech site of water use by individual items of equipment.
The results of this study are now leading to follow on projects.
Furthermore an exercise is underway to recycle a significant amount of water on another major cannery site during 2007.
Continuing efforts have been made to reduce the amount of packaging used on products.
The last full years audited Packaging Directive data 2005 showed a 6% reduction in the weight of packaging used.
A further 2% reduction is expected in the audited return for 2006, available at the end of March 2007.
In addition the Group has recently signed up to the Courtauld Commitment to reduce packaging and food waste in accordance with the Waste Resources Action Programme WRAP.
During the year two sites attracted significant investment in effluent treatment facilities to improve compliance guarantees and reduce odour.
Work will be completed on these projects in early 2007.
The Group continues to monitor and improve its record in relation to environmental management.
During the year there were a number of minor, out of consent discharges and in addition one site was prosecuted for breaching environmental legislation.
The Group takes these issues very seriously and has taken steps to prevent their reoccurrence.
Waste to landfill has been reduced by 35% this year, based on tonnes of landfill per tonne of product target 10%.
This reduction has been achieved by the removing of out of specification products from landfill, with recovery of packaging materials and segregation of waste at source for recycling.
Further improvements are planned for 2007 as part of the overall environment strategy.
The Group avoids the use of genetically modified materials in its food production and considers the environmental impact of the products that are made and the sourcing of raw materials, taking care to minimise the use of materials that deplete natural resources.
48 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued The Groups two eligible sites have received their Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC permits.
The permits contain a number of improvement conditions, which are in the process of being addressed within the agreed deadlines.
Human resources It is recognised that the Groups employees are its single most valuable asset.
We have high expectations of all staff and everyone is required to perform and deliver value.
This creates an environment that is both challenging and rewarding, thus enabling employees to develop quickly and pursue new opportunities.
Premier Foods strives to be the employer of choice in the areas in which it operates.
There is a commitment to the upholding of standards of international human rights in our dealings with employees as well as the supply chain, and all manufacturing sites are subject to the same ethical audits we conduct on the supply chain.
We are committed to a fair but robust approach to equal opportunities in all areas of our business, with employees gaining promotion on merit.
The Group recruits, trains, promotes and retains skilled and motivated people irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, ethnic or national origin.
In order to promote career development, the Group provides its employees with access to relevant training and development schemes through in-house training, educational assistance, participation in National Vocational Qualification Schemes and encouraging professional memberships.
The aim is to ensure that there is a highly trained and motivated workforce, capable of meeting the highest standards required by customers and investors.
A significant number of employees participate in a formal performance and development review at least annually, and we are continuing to develop this process across the entire business.
The Group has in place specific disciplinary and grievance procedures and welcomes the reporting of genuine and serious grievances, or alleged breaches of corporate policy.
No employee will suffer as a consequence of notifying such breaches, in accordance with our whistle-blowing policy.
Bullying or harassment in the workplace is not tolerated, either as a management style or between work colleagues, and disciplinary action is taken against any employee who is proven to have bullied or harassed others.
Unlike many companies in the UK, Premier continues to operate, for both existing and new employees, a defined benefit pension scheme in which most employers in the Group participate.
A minority of Group employers operate Stakeholder Pension Schemes for their employees.
An all-employee sharesave scheme has been developed to more closely align an element of employee reward to business value enhancement.
Premier Foods continues to seek ways in which the Groups internal communications framework can be further enhanced as we recognise the value of good communication in engaging our employees towards the achievement of common goals.
We have a number of employee consultation and communication mechanisms in place including: Regular communication meetings with employees within the organisation.
Specific consultation and involvement regarding major changes to business operations.
An audit of communication systems was completed during 2006, and a number of actions arising from this review are in the process of being implemented.
There are a number of KPIs in relation to human resources that are measured on a monthly basis, e. g. absenteeism, pension scheme participation, industrial relations and staff turnover.
We continue to review the portfolio of KPIs measured.
49 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Community and charity donations Each site is encouraged to actively participate with the local community and encourage regular dialogue.
We endeavour to be a good neighbour and minimise the impact of our operations on the local communities.
We bring employment opportunities, both directly and indirectly, to the areas in which we operate.
Our policy is to recruit local people where possible.
During 2006, the Group made charitable donations amounting to 52,000.
Whilst the annual donations budget is administered locally to a policy directed predominantly towards assisting those communities in which the Groups businesses are located, the Group makes donations to national charitable organisations.
Industry forums At Premier we recognise the importance of participating in and having an open dialogue with industry forums that represent manufacturing in both the UK and Europe and that impact our key product groups.
This assists in responding to and controlling legislative change, shaping future codes of practice and communicating industry issues.
Bodies that we participate with include but are not restricted to : The Food and Drink Federation FDF Corporate Affairs Group Health & Wellbeing Steering Group Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs Committee Food Processors Association Campden and Chorleywood Food Research Association Organisation of European Industries Leatherhead Food International transforming Fruit and Veg The Consumer Goods Study Group Inter Company Consumer Affairs Association The Soil Association Health and Safety Executive Area Forums The Honey Association Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents The Ethical Trading Initiative British Safety Council Policy statements in relation to the above areas are available on our website: www.
