Governance Corporate governance report Compliance and the role of our Board encouraged to visit the companys operations abroad in order 2 The company has established procedures and policies to ensure to familiarise themselves with their activities and to meet local compliance with the code provisions set out in Section of the management.
The Board visited the companys operations in Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
As Vietnam in January 2007 and further visits to other regional offices required by the Code, we report below on how the main and are being arranged.
supporting principles of the Code have been applied throughout The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition the year and explain any areas where we have not complied with any of the Codes provisions.
While this is an important exercise, and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, corporate overhead costs and consideration of the Board does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The overall significant financing matters.
Following the review in 2005 of strategy and organisation, the Board has continued to focus its purpose of the Board is to represent the companys owners, ensure that the companys strategic objectives are properly efforts in 2006 on strategic issues which will create shareholder value, monitoring performance against agreed objectives and pursued and the major business risks are actively monitored and managed.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts discussing future business opportunities.
the interests of our shareholders as the Boards primary focus.
The formal agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman The Board considers that the company has complied with the in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and Secretary.
Formal Board and Board committee minutes are subsequently up to the date of this report except in those areas circulated to all directors at the next Board meeting.
members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on the annual budget and progress The Board against major objectives.
In accordance with the authority given The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, under the companys Articles, the company has established a the Chief Executive, three other executive directors and four standing committee of the Board, consisting of any two directors, independent non-executive directors.
Brief biographical to carry out routine business.
The minutes of all meetings of this details of each director and a note of their Board committee committee are circulated to the Board.
memberships are set out on page 20.
There are formal and transparent procedures for the appointment The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive of new directors and it is the responsibility of the Nomination director.
His key responsibility is the effective running of the Board.
Committee to consider Board composition and succession Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring planning, including the appointment and reappointment of the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
Mr J R W Orange, who is Chairman of the Remuneration This requires regular contact with the Chief Executive between Committee, is the companys senior independent non-executive Board meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, director.
In this role, he is available to shareholders who have shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the In 2006, the Chairman visited several of the companys overseas Chairman or Chief Executive.
Matters reserved for Board decision operations to meet senior industry and government are clearly laid down in writing, including the appointment of the representatives.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board meet periodically without the executive directors present and the procedures and rules are applied.
Formal procedures are in place non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
Details of the executive directors service The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment Chief Executive has been clearly established.
are laid out in the Remuneration Report on page 29.
Premier is an international business which has to manage a variety The company has directors and officers liability insurance of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important in place.
that the Board contains the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
The non-executive directors The company has granted indemnities to all its directors, to the come from diverse business backgrounds, with significant fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
expertise covering international oil and gas management, stockbroking, banking and exploration.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to have direct contact with the companys senior executives between Board meetings and also Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued 22 Executive Committee directors comprise over one half of the Board.
Selection of suitable The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group to non-executive directors is a matter for Board approval following the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
to assist him in this role.
The committee is made up of each of the We require that all our non-executive directors are free from any executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
relationship with the executive management of the company that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The responsibilities of the Executive Committee include the judgement.
In the Boards view, all our non-executive directors development of group strategy for approval by the Board, fulfil this requirement.
It determined all six who served during 2006 portfolio management and the monitoring of performance against to be independent directors.
the targets set by the Board.
At its weekly meetings it also reviews health, safety, environmental and security performance and Mr J R W Orange was appointed to the Board in 997. operational business performance reports.
The committee is also Whilst his service exceeds the term referred to in the Code, responsible for reviewing the information provided to the Board.
the Board considers that his experience and long-term perspective of Premiers business continues to provide a most Four regional business units North Sea, West Africa, Middle Eastvaluable contribution and that it benefits from his input to the Pakistan and Asia were established in 2005 in order to manage Boards deliberations.
effectively the increasing geographical spread of business in the group.
Each business unit is headed by a regional business The Board is strongly of the view that the important qualities manager who delivers against specific strategies and performance when considering the issue of independence of non-executive targets set by the Executive Committee.
directors are independence of spirit and objectivity of mind, and therefore regards Mr J R W Orange as an independent Board performance evaluation director.
In accordance with Code provisions, he will be The Board and its directors are subject to regular appraisal.
considered for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The aim is to improve both individual contributions and Sir David John completed nine years of service in March 2007, group achievement.
and in accordance with Code provisions, he will be considered for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board carried out a questionnaire-based evaluation process in 2006.
The main areas covered by this process were: The Board, in co-ordination with the Nomination Committee, contribution to testing and development of strategy: has addressed the issue of ongoing Board succession and leadership and culture: development, and in particular, the refreshing of the noninternal control and risk management: executive directors.
External search and recruitment consultants performance against objectives: are utilised to identify appropriate candidates.
Interviews were effectiveness of internal and external relationships: conducted with a number of suitable candidates during the year, meeting arrangements and processes: and as a result of this Professor D G Roberts was appointed as a quality and timeliness of information: non-executive director on 28 June 2006.
The Board had intended board and committee composition: and to continue the process of seeking other non-executive candidates induction and training.
in the fourth quarter of 2006, but this was put on hold as a result of the takeover speculation surrounding the company.
This process The results of the evaluation were reviewed by the Chairman has been resumed and is now being actively pursued.
and discussed in detail by the Board.
The results were extremely positive.
The main issue raised by the evaluation was the mix Re-election of directors of skills and experience needed at non-executive level to assist In accordance with the companys Memorandum and Articles the company in achieving its goals.
The conclusions of the Board of Association one third of directors retire each year, with their formed the basis of the profiles put together by the Nomination reappointment being subject to the approval of shareholders.
Committee for the ongoing task of refreshing the composition This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at least of the non-executive Board.
This process is described more fully every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director having in the next section.
held office for more than nine years, will be subject to re-election on an annual basis, and any director aged 70 or over who would Non-executive directors not otherwise be required to retire, must retire by rotation.
The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
Non-executive Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Board committees controls from a variety of sources: these include joint venture 23 The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a and government audits and the use of specific reviews using third Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each party specialists.
The committee also took account of the business of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
controls reviews and risk management process, more fully The terms of reference for each committee can be found on the described on page 24.
As a result, the committee concluded companys website www.
The Company that there was no need for a dedicated internal audit resource.
Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
The Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the issue of the independence of our external auditors, in the light of the Audit and Risk Committee fact that they provide taxation advice to the company.
In all An objective and professional relationship is maintained with the services purchased, the group aims to select the provider who auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit and Risk Committee, is best placed to deliver the service in terms of quality and cost.
comprising only of non-executive directors, meets at least three The committee does not believe that the provision of taxation times a year for a detailed review of the groups accounts and its advice to the group by the external auditor creates a threat to internal controls.
Its members are Messrs R V Emerson Chairman, the independence of the audit process.
This is principally because S J Dobbie and J R W Orange.
Minutes of the meetings of the neither the nature of the non-audit service nor the level of reliance Audit and Risk Committee are distributed to all Board members, placed upon it by the group could, or could be seen to, impair all of whom are encouraged to attend meetings of the committee the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the financial as observers since the Board believes that the work of the statements.
The committee also requires the external auditor committee, particularly in the areas of risk management and to confirm that in providing non-audit services, it complies internal control, is increasingly important for all Board members.
with Ethical Standards of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2006.
The Audit and Risk Committee has three scheduled meetings each year: the March meeting reviews the full year results for the Remuneration Committee previous calendar year and also reviews the annual Corporate The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least three times Governance report: the September meeting reviews the results a year and determines the remuneration of the executive directors for the six month period ending on 30 June and the December and senior employees.
The groups remuneration policy is to meeting plans the audit work for the forthcoming year.
The provide a level of remuneration which is sufficient to attract and committee met three times in 2006. retain employees of the level of expertise we require.
In relation to executive directors and senior employees, the objective is that a significant element of the remuneration package is linked to The Audit and Risk Committee is mainly responsible for: reviewing the companys internal financial control and risk corporate performance.
No director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are management systems: full details of which are shown on page 24: Messrs J R W Orange Chairman, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson and Professor D G Roberts.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports to ensure clarity and attend by invitation when appropriate.
Full details of the directors remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages completeness: overseeing the companys relationship with its external auditors, 28 to 37. including making recommendations as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms The role of the Remuneration Committee includes: of engagement and monitoring their independence: and considering and determining the remuneration policy for executive directors: reviewing the companys whistleblowing procedures within this agreed policy, considering and determining the and ensuring these are adequately published within the total compensation package of each executive director of organisation, that the committee Chairman is promptly the company: informed of any issues, and that there are arrangements in considering and advising on the general principles under which place for the investigation of any alleged improprieties.
compensation is applied to employees of the company: determining the awards to be made under the companys The Audit and Risk Committee also carried out its annual review longterm incentive schemes: and into whether it is appropriate for the company to establish an determining the policy for pension arrangements, service internal audit function.
The committee places great emphasis on agreements and termination payments to directors.
the importance of imbuing a culture of risk management and control at all operating levels in the business and is confident that this culture is in place.
The committee took account of the fact that the company obtains independent confirmation of its internal Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued 24 As in previous years, the principal focus of the Remuneration Internal control Committee in 2006 has been to ensure that the remuneration The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining packages of the senior executives are set at levels which are sufficient the groups system of internal control.
The internal control system to retain and attract high-quality individuals particularly at a time is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Internal control systems in any when the market for these individuals is extremely competitive.
group are designed to meet the particular needs of that group and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only The determination of the remuneration of the non-executive provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material directors is a matter for the Board.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control Nomination Committee required by Code provision D. 2. are described below.
These The Nomination Committee comprises Sir David John Chairman, procedures have been in place for the year under review and up Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, S C Lockett, J R W Orange to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The committee met twice in 2006.
Management of business risks This is an ongoing process, in The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, accordance with Turnbull guidance, and has been established size and composition of the Board and make recommendations for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
to the Board on these matters and to put in place succession plans This is based on each business unit and corporate function with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
This involves an producing a risk matrix which identifies the key business risks ongoing assessment of the appropriate skills-mix required at Board financial, operational, environmental, social and political the level in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term.
probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired The Board considers that the membership of the Audit and Risk level.
Risk acceptance and reduction objectives are defined with Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration particular attention given to safety and environmental factors, Committee are in compliance with the Code recommendation, and applied to ensure that the risks are at a level that is as low as on the basis that it considers Mr J R W Orange to be independent, reasonably practicable.
notwithstanding his length of service.
The directors receive assurance directly from the business units The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during and functional management through the completion of annual declarations confirming compliance with the groups policies, 2006, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: procedures and risk management processes.
These processes Board Audit Remuneration Nomination are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to 1 Number of Meetings 8 3 6 2 achieve business objectives.
Attendance Sir David John 8 3 4 2 The company has adopted a framework model for application 2 M A K Alizai 4 N A N A N A across the group and an annual report is produced on compliance R A Allan 8 N A N A N A with that model and with the group risk management process.
S J Dobbie 8 3 4 2 The report is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
A R C Durrant 8 3 N A N A R V Emerson 7 3 5 2 Monitoring A comprehensive control manual is in force which 3 I Gray 4 4 2 regulates a wide range of day-to-day activities both in the UK 4 N Hawkings 8 N A N A N A and overseas offices including environmental controls, health and safety regulations and political risks.
The application of S C Lockett 8 3 4 2 internal control procedures is reviewed during visits to the J R W Orange 8 3 6 2 5 overseas offices by head office staff.
Audits are carried out by Professor D G Roberts 4 N A 2 N A partners in joint ventures from time to time.
By invitation Notes: A process of business control reviews has been developed and There were five scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, year: the remaining meeting only attended by Messrs J R W Orange and I Gray to provide assurance to the Board that the company is embedding was called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by a prior effective risk management into its operations.
The report of each scheduled meeting of the committee.
review is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
2 Mr M A K Alizai resigned from the Board with effect from 2 July 2006.
3 Mr I Gray resigned from the Board with effect from 2 July 2006.
4 Mr N Hawkings was appointed to the Board on 23 March 2006 and attended all the Board meetings held from that date.
He attended two Board meetings, by invitation, prior to his appointment.
5 Professor D G Roberts was appointed to the Board on 28 June 2006.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance During 2006 the key business risks identified were formally Going concern 25 discussed by the Executive Committee on a periodic basis.
After making enquiries and in the light of the groups loan facilities, This process will continue during 2007. the group budget for 2007 and the medium-term plans, the directors have reasonable expectation that the group has The Board will receive regular reports on any major problems that adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore under review.
Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for Communication with shareholders the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive director has Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report which are The executive directors together with key senior executives sent to shareholders.
The company has also produced a separate constitute the Executive Committee which normally meets weekly.
brochure in each of the last four years highlighting Premiers capabilities and business principles.
These documents are Corporate accounting Responsibility levels are communicated available to all shareholders.
throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, authorisation levels, The company launched an e-communications service allowing segregation of duties and other control procedures.
all shareholders to register to receive communications by e-mail.
For each registration processed, the company will donate to Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and Climate Care, an organisation that funds projects that reduce competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment greenhouse gases.
All shareholders are encouraged to register for standards and subsequent training.
The company also posted on its website, guidelines advising shareholders of Budgetary process There is a comprehensive budgeting system how to deal with potential Boiler Room scams, where shareholders with an annual budget approved by the Board, covering capital may have received unsolicited phone calls concerning investment expenditure, cash flow, the income statement and balance sheet.
matters, often where callers have stated they work for a subsidiary Monthly results are reported against budget, and revised forecasts of, or on behalf of the company.
Shareholders were advised to for the year are prepared regularly.
be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at discount, or offers of free analysis reports, as the company does not retain Investment appraisal The group has clearly defined procedures the services of any such business for these purposes.
These include authority levels, commitment records and reporting, annual budget and detailed There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, and the appraisal and review procedures.
The authority of the directors is Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the required for key treasury matters including changes to equity and directors responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy including other members of the Board receive full reports of shareholder foreign currency hedging, oil price hedging, cheque signatories meetings.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their and opening of bank accounts.
Comprehensive due diligence shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are work is carried out if a business or an asset is to be acquired.
dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the During 2006, the Board reviewed the groups system of internal group.
The company also maintains a website www.
control and is satisfied that all the controls in place are adequate to com which provides detailed information on the groups activities.
provide reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes are By order of the Board made to internal control systems to capture any new risks or S C Huddle exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the Company Secretary business environment.
2 March 2007 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
