CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance statement The company has throughout the year under report complied in all material respects with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The principles of the Code have been applied as set out below.
The Board and its structure The Board is responsible for the strategic direction of the company, and comprises the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
Further details of the directors, including their biographies and committee memberships, is given on pages 32 to 33.
The Board has a specific schedule of matters reserved for its decision including the approval of financial statements, long-term objectives and commercial strategy, treasury policy, health and safety policy, major capital investment and all matters concerning the maintenance and development of good corporate governance practice.
The composition of the Board comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors.
Steve Williams is the Senior Independent Director and his responsibilities include providing an additional channel of communication for shareholders should they feel it necessary to express any concerns outside the normal methods of communication with the company.
The Board met ten times during 2006, including a two-day session devoted to strategy.
In addition to business matters requiring its attention, the Board at each meeting receives an operational and progress report from the Chief Executive, financial reports from the Group Managing Director - Finance, and a report from the Group Managing Director - Corporate Affairs, which includes matters relevant to the development of the transport industry in the UK and mainland Europe.
The Board also receives reports from Board Committee Chairmen and updates on corporate governance, regulatory and other compliance matters.
The roles of both Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the smooth and effective operation of the Board and its Committees, including the flow of information to the Board, for Board membership and succession and for facilitating relationships between the company and investors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and implementing the decisions of the Board.
In particular the Chief Executive formulates and keeps under review proposals for the strategic direction of the business, ensures that appropriate operational resources are available, promotes the company to the investing community and potential investors, and accounts to the Board for the financial performance of the company.
One third of the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election each year and all directors will have submitted themselves for re-election every three years.
Newly appointed directors will be subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who administers the Board and Board Committee meetings, regularly updates the Board on matters of corporate governance and ensures that relevant procedures and regulations are adhered to.
There is an established procedure for any of the directors both executive and non-executive to obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
An induction programme applies for all new appointees to the Board, which incorporates full briefing on the Arriva approach to corporate governance and a review of the business and Board and corporate issues.
The induction programme also includes site visits in the UK and mainland Europe and one-to-one meetings with key senior managers.
Existing directors also receive regular business updates and make site visits as appropriate.
Opportunities to further develop Board skills and knowledge are also considered as part of the Board evaluation process.
Board evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance.
The 2006 evaluation was an internal process based on confidential questionnaires completed by each director and reviewed by the Chairman.
The evaluation, which was discussed by the Board, focused principally on the Boards performance following the change of Chief Executive in early 2006.
As part of the 2006 evaluation process Steve Williams, Senior Independent Director, held confidential discussions with other directors of the Board as part of an evaluation of the performance of Sir Richard Broadbent in his role as Chairman.
Training requirements for directors are determined as a result of the evaluation process.
Board committees The Board has four Committees - Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Safety.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year, the Remuneration Committee five times, the Nomination Committee met once and the Safety Committee met four times.
A table showing attendance at Board meetings and Board committee meetings is given on page 44.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Board Committees can be accessed by visiting the companys website www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Simon Batey, a Chartered Accountant and Chief Financial Officer of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
In addition to Mr Batey, the members of the Committee are Veronica Palmer and Steve Williams.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to review and report to the Board on the companys internal controls and risk management systems, including risk transfer and risk retention.
The Committee reviews reports by Group Internal Audit and reports to the Board on action being taken to address issues arising from the reports.
It also monitors the effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions and is required to satisfy itself as to the continuing independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
42 Moving you across Europe The Committees terms of reference require it to monitor the integrity of all the companys financial statements and any other statements which may be issued relating to the companys financial performance or financial standing: this review will include an assessment of financial reporting judgments applied.
To assist it in performing its duties the Committee may invite other members of the Board, the Head of Internal Audit, any member of the companys senior management team and any representative of the companys external auditors to attend its meetings: however no invitee has any right of attendance.
It is the responsibility of the Committee members to ensure that they are regularly briefed and receive training on matters concerning financial reporting developments and associated skills.
During 2006 the Committee undertook a review of the objectivity, resources and independence of the auditors  LLP PwC and has considered the appointment of the auditors for 2007.
Following this review the Committee believes that PwC continues to deliver a satisfactory service and has recommended to the Board that PwCs re-appointment as auditors be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed that recommendation.
As part of its process for ensuring continued audit independence, the Audit Committee reviews and approves the level and nature of non-audit work performed by the auditors.
For the year under review the value of non-audit work was 0.3 million and the fee for audit work was 0.7 million.
A breakdown of the elements of the fee comprising non-audit work is provided in note 3 b to the accounts on page 60.
The Committee has established policies relating to non-audit work performed by the auditors and to the employment by the group of ex-employees of the external auditors.
Also during 2006 the Committee conducted an appraisal of the role of Group Internal Audit and how effectively that role is discharged.
The Committee concluded that the Group Internal Audit function was performing well and represents a significant and effective unit in both the monitoring of the groups internal controls and the quality, reliability and integrity of the groups accounting records.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises only independent non-executive directors of the company and is chaired by Mrs A V M Palmer, the other members being Mr S G Batey and Mr N P Buckles.
Full details of the work and membership of the Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 41.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Richard Broadbent.
It is responsible for keeping under review the structure, size and operation of the Board and its Committees and for forming an assessment and making appropriate recommendations regarding the resourcing of the Board.
In relation to new appointments the Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive and relevant external advisors, will identify the particular skill set, personal attributes and characteristics that are perceived as necessary to fulfill the role and will produce an appropriate job description and be directly involved in the recruitment process.
It is also the responsibility of the Committee, together with the Chairman of the Board, to ensure the effective application of the Board evaluation procedure.
The Committee also monitors and reviews senior management succession planning and during the year a comprehensive succession exercise covering senior management immediately below Board level, which commenced in 2005, was completed.
Safety Committee The Safety Committee comprises Nick Buckles, Chairman of the Committee, Sir Richard Broadbent, Steve Williams all non-executive directors and Steve Clayton who as Group Managing Director - Corporate Affairs is responsible for health and safety.
The Group Safety and Environment Manager supports the Committee in its work.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The Board recognises the fundamental importance of safety within the business and the Safety Committee exists to ensure that the appropriate Board level attention and overview is devoted to this subject.
The Committee is required to identify and address key issues that may impact on the company, to review the key safety performance indicators, to advise the Board of Directors on the adequacy and effectiveness of the overall safety policy of the group and review and report on the companys internal safety management system.
In June 2006 the Board approved a revised Safety Policy statement, as developed by the Safety Committee, which reflects the arrangements in place for successful safety management across all Arriva businesses.
The Safety Policy statement forms part of the Group Policy Manual and can be found on the Arriva website www.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board and board committee attendance information BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION SAFETY REMUNERATION 10 Meetings 4 Meetings 1 Meeting 4 Meetings 5 Meetings Sir Richard Broadbent 10 - 1 4 - D R Martin 10 ---- S P Lonsdale 10 ---- S J Clayton 10 - - 4 - A V M Palmer 10 4 1 - 5 S G Batey 10 4 1 - 4 N P Buckles 10 - 1 4 5 S G Williams 84134 R J Davies 3 ---- Retired 19 April 2006.
Relations with shareholders The company has an established programme of communication with shareholders and the Corporate Communications department organises presentations for analysts and investors.
It is the Boards intention that these arrangements should continue and are designed to facilitate a helpful and constructive dialogue between the company and major investors, while meeting statutory and regulatory requirements.
A procedure has been established for the non-executive directors to receive direct feedback from the companys stockbrokers of the investing communitys perception of the Boards performance and strategy.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is an important opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
A presentation on the progress and performance of the business is made by the Chief Executive following the formal business of the meeting, and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Safety Committees are available to answer questions.
Following each resolution, the meeting is informed of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect of each resolution: this information is also published on the companys website following the meeting.
Group policies In June 2006 the Board approved a Group Policy Manual, which is designed to strengthen the groups corporate governance and internal control.
The group policies, which relate to all major business processes and risks, have been circulated throughout the group and all businesses are required to certify their continued compliance with these policies as part of the internal control processes of the group.
The policies are subject to periodic review and updating to take account of changes in regulation, legislation and best practice and the results from the ongoing risk assessment process as described below.
All subsidiaries are required to follow group policies, although it is recognised that newly acquired businesses may require a period of time before being able to fully implement all of the policies.
Subsidiary companies are required to report to the Chief Executive, on an annual basis, any departures or non-compliance with group policies.
Whistleblowing The group operates a Whistleblowing policy and procedure whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place, or if health and safety standards are being compromised.
Areas that are addressed by this procedure cover financial malpractice, criminal activities, dangers to health and safety, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The procedures allow for employees to raise their concerns with line management or, if this is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
A confidential telephone mailbox and confidential e-mail facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
The complaint will be investigated in a confidential manner and, after a decision is made as to what further steps should be taken, feedback is given to the person making the complaint.
An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure, and a report of the outcomes of all investigations is made to the Board.
The Whistleblowing policy and its operation is subject to periodic review by the Audit Committee: the last review was in February 2007.
44 Moving you across Europe Internal control Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The review required extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control.
Whilst no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material loss, the systems are designed to give the directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the group has been in place throughout the year under review and continues to remain in place.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness on an ongoing basis of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are: a Organisation structure The structure of the organisation is so designed to minimise, as far as possible, the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the commercial demands made on the group.
The structure focuses on the core businesses of the group and stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken if the need arises.
Certain of the groups key functions including company secretarial, legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury, insurance and health and safety policy are undertaken centrally.
b Financial reporting The group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating divisions performance being closely monitored against budget, forecast and prior year performance.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for consideration by the Board as a whole, and are issued in a timely manner to ensure proper consideration can be given to the information.
c Group Internal Audit The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the Group Internal Audit department.
Group Internal Audit is responsible for advising all levels of management, and the Board of directors through the Audit Committee, on the quality of the operational systems of control for all parts of the group.
This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control.
Group Internal Audit functions by conducting independent appraisals in a professional manner leading to reports detailing findings and agreed actions.
Group Internal Audit undertakes annual financial reviews of the balance sheets of all of the groups material trading subsidiaries and engages in a cycle of operational and risk reviews both on scheduled and random bases: the Head of Group Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Group Internal Audit is staffed by appropriately qualified and experienced auditors.
d Risk assessment and risk control An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and the implementation of appropriate controls designed to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
The approach adopted by the Board involves a process which is designed to encourage divisional operational staff to critically examine their responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business.
In order for this process to succeed it is essential that ownership of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board has devolved to the Audit Committee the task of implementing and maintaining an appropriate risk assessment and control programme and it works closely with the Head of Group Internal Audit in engaging in a formal review of the key business risks to the group.
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues that the Board has identified as being absolutely critical to the success and effectiveness of the risk management and control programme, and in formulating its approach has structured the programme around the key areas of: Clear leadership from the Board The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in line management culture Clear communication of the principles involved Active support and involvement of the Group Internal Audit function Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business Updating of the Group Policy Manual following the identification of new significant risks.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 45
