| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
This report, together with the report on directors remuneration describes how the board applied the Code during the year under review.
Directors The board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
The board of directors has twelve members comprising the Chairman, the chief executive, six other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out in the report of the directors.
The differing roles of the Chairman and chief executive are acknowledged.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the board and ensuring that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The chief executive is responsible for coordinating the running of the business and implementing Group strategy.
The executive directors service contracts and the letters setting out the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting.
The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr D W Lewis is a former partner of Addleshaw Goddard, who act as legal advisors to the company, and is also a non-executive member of the Addleshaw Goddard Governance Board.
Mr Lewis does not and has not participated in any way in the provision of services by Addleshaw Goddard to PZ Cussons.
In addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the board or a committee of the board is considering any matter concerning Addleshaw Goddard, it has been agreed that Mr Lewis will withdraw from that meeting until such matters have been dealt with.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr J D M Smith.
In his capacity as senior independent director Mr Smith is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The board has a documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of annual and interim results, material acquisitions and disposals and entering into material joint ventures and partnerships.
The board met formally four times during the year and will meet further as necessary to consider specic matters.
All the directors were in attendance at each meeting other than for the meeting held on 28th July 2005 for which Mr G A Kanellis and Mr D C Godwin did not attend.
Directors can take independent professional advice where necessary at the companys expense and have access to the services of the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and all applicable rules and regulations are followed.
During the year, the company maintained liability insurance for its directors and ofcers.
There is a formal induction process for directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
Directors may take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the expense of the company.
A formal review of the board and board committee performance is carried out annually.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director and takes into account the views of the executive directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors is evaluated by the Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors.
The remuneration committee reviews executive directors performance with guidance from the Chairman and the chief executive except in the case of the chief executives performance where it is reviewed by the Chairman and the remuneration committee.
The directors submit themselves for election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation, at least once every three years.
The review process in 2006 concluded that all directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out their duties.
The board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to dened terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the committees are available, on request, from the registered ofce of the company and will also be available through the companys website.
Nomination committee The nomination committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the board when vacancies arise.
The committee members are Mr A J Green committee Chairman, Mr G A Kanellis and the four independent non-executive directors, Mr D W Lewis, Mr R H Sellers, Mr J D M Smith and Mr J T J Steel.
In considering an appointment the nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
External search agencies or open advertising will be used where this is appropriate.
Short-listed candidates will then be invited to interview with members of the committee and, if recommended by the committee, will be invited to meet other board members before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
The committee met three times during the year and all the committee members were in attendance at each meeting.
| | 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and senior executives, which the board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The committee members are the four independent non-executive directors, Mr D W Lewis, Mr R H Sellers, Mr J D M Smith committee Chairman and Mr J T J Steel.
Once approved, the remuneration committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specic remuneration packages for the Chairman and each executive director.
The Chairman and executive directors are responsible for the agreement of non-executive directors remuneration.
Audit committee The audit committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the board, the Groups accounting and financial policies and its disclosure practices and internal controls.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointments, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditors and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
These responsibilities are discharged at the audit committee meetings and through regular reports from the internal audit function.
The audit committee comprises the four independent non-executive directors, Mr D W Lewis, Mr R H Sellers committee Chairman, Mr J D M Smith and Mr J T J Steel and meets regularly with the external auditors.
Mr R H Sellers, a qualied chartered accountant, brings recent and relevant financial experience to the audit committee.
The audit committee met three times during the year and all the committee members were in attendance at each meeting.
As mentioned, one of the duties of the audit committee is to make recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
A number of factors are taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the auditors for reappointment.
These include the quality of the reports provided to the audit committee and the board and the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors.
The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in conict with auditor independence, providing they have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work and are considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
Activities that may be perceived to be in conict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial statements.
Risk management committee The risk management committee is responsible for identifying significant risks and ensuring, where possible, that action is taken to mitigate these risks.
This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, and ensuring that appropriate control measures are put in place.
Plans are developed and implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks where practicable.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group.
The committee comprises senior management from within the business and receives input from professional advisers.
It met twice during the year and regularly reports to the board.
In addition, the board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and the performance of the risk management committee.
Remuneration Details of directors remuneration are set out in the report on directors remuneration.
Accountability and audit Directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS but have elected to continue to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Company law requires the directors to prepare the consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
As a result of the election to continue to prepare the companys financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP, company law requires the directors to prepare the financial statements for the company in accordance with UK GAAP and the Companies Act 1985.
Under IFRS, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
Under UK GAAP, Financial Reporting Standard 3 requires the financial statements to be prepared on a basis which gives a true and fair view of the companys financial position and profit or loss.
Both UK GAAP and IFRS therefore require the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards or, in the case of the company financial statements, UK GAAP.
| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern After undertaking an appropriate review, the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31st May 2006 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
The process includes: Frequent communication between the board and subsidiary management on all critical business issues.
Regular visits to operating units by the board, head ofce management and internal audit.
A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting.
Regular review by the board of a risk management document produced by the risk management committee.
At its May and July 2006 meetings, the board carried out the annual assessment of internal control for the year to 31st May 2006 by considering documentation from the executive committee, risk management committee and internal audit function as well as taking into consideration events since the year end.
The company continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a dened fraud reporting process which are issued with the Group Internal Control Manual.
Relations with shareholders The company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the board at the annual general meeting and the directors are available to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
The company responds throughout the year to correspondence received from shareholders on a wide range of issues and a subscription e-mail service is available for all interested parties through the companys website enabling access to company notications and news releases.
Compliance statement The directors consider that, throughout the accounting period, the company complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code as published in July 2003 and contained in the rules of the UK Listing Authority with the following exception: Code Provision A.
3.2: The board recognises that the Code species that at least half of the members on the board excluding the Chairman should be independent non-executive directors.
Throughout the year the board comprised the Chairman, a total of seven executive directors and four non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent and whose respective backgrounds clearly indicate that they are of sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry significant weight in the boards decisions.
