The establishment of micro agri-enterprises such as During 2006, Randgold Resources maintained its good relations vegetable gardens, beekeeping in the villages, the provision with governments by continuing to meet regularly with officials of the authorities in Mali, Tanzania, Senegal, Ghana, Burkina of seeds, fertiliser and farming equipment and education Faso and Cte dIvoire.
and training in agricultural production and marketing.
Drilling of bore holes and installing Indian pumps.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS Provision of medical treatment, medicines, and inoculations The good industrial relations experienced during this year to local villagers.
across the group, reflect the continuing success of the Randgold The evacuation of seriously ill villagers to hospitals in Resources pact with labour policy.
Malaria and HIV AIDS educational and awareness During 2006, Loulo broke all records in Mali for the establishment campaigns in local villages.
of a union, by holding union elections in co-operation with The introduction of malaria control programmes such as SYNACOM, the mining union confederation, and establishing spraying of the dwellings in local villages and distribution a union at Loulo, within a few months of the commencement of mosquito nets.
Details of the above activities are referred to in the review of Manpower operations section of this report on pages 20 to 23.
The Human capital expenditure on the three pillars of our sustainable community As the company develops and expands, every effort is made development social programme exceeded US$240 000 during to employ excellent people.
Through leadership, a sense of 2006. ownership and interpersonal influence, these people are motivated to contribute to Randgold Resources success.
Spin-off development impacts from mining activity What needs to be done in the company is defined by The provision of secure and well paid employment enhances consultative strategic planning, which is refreshed at regular the economies of the villages where the employees live and intervals and is rolled down through the operations.
This the welfare of their families.
Further, the experience of being strategy provides the foundation for the long term plan including employed and the associated knowledge and skills gained manpower and succession plans, the fundamental principles gives employees a sustainable competitive advantage over of its business, the framework for effective decision making others in the job market.
and the actions required of its employees, the initiating of change and improvements and, most importantly, a rallying At a national level the Randgold Resources business model point.
It enables the business to organise its resources and facilitates development as it includes establishing and maintaining optimise the application of its human capital.
In every country in which it operates, the company has formed business partnerships with local 2006 has been a year of development, empowerment and businesses, fostered close relationships with the authorities positioning of the companys young intellectual talent, such as and governments of the countries and where possible, Paul Harbidge, the manager of Randgold Resources highly purchases goods and services locally.
successful exploration team, to succeed to the most senior levels of the company and of its operations.
The financial contribution that an investor such as Randgold Resources can make to a country such as Mali is significant.
Further, the process has begun of appointing a second in The company, through its investments in Loulo, Morila and command to John Steele in capital projects and of strengthening exploration, contributes to the economies of the countries in the procurement and commercial functions.
which it operates through payments of staff salaries, payments to government of payroll taxes, duties, royalties and to local At the mine level, Loulos manpower and management succession plans were realised through the development of businesses for goods and services.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 45 Malian professionals who have either already replaced expensive their third and penultimate year of study.
In addition, the expatriates or will do so in the near future.
company continues its support of the Randgold Resources Scholarship Award scheme for earth sciences students at the University of Senegal.
During 2006, national managers became responsible for the posts of processing manager, maintenance manager, mining For further information on human resources and sustainable superintendent, and underground geologist.
In addition, community development see the Morila and Loulo operations individuals have been earmarked and are completing final section of this report on pages 20 to 23 and pages 27 and development, to succeed the expatriate incumbents of senior 28. management posts.
The general manager of Loulo, Amadou Konta, is a Malian graduate who has been with the group since its inception, and who has risen through the ranks from a mining foreman, through mining superintendent, to manager mining at Syama and who was appointed as the first Malian general manager of a large Malian gold mine in 2005.
Together with Mahamadou Samak, who is a senior executive of the company and a director of both Morila and Loulo, and Randgold Resources other senior managers, Amadou stands out as an excellent role model for young nationals throughout the company.
Randgold Resources believes this comes through its partnership philosophy of involving employees and other stakeholders such as suppliers and contractors in the business.
All are kept fully informed about the business and how they can contribute to making it more successful.
The company believes this manifests itself in many aspects of its business and not just production - for instance having maintained an enviable safety and health record on its operations with both Syama and Morila having won the premier National Safety award in Malian industry.
In the more recent past Loulo has had a fine record throughout the construction of the mine and the startup of operations.
On the health side, the company has significantly reduced the incidence of diseases such as malaria in the areas in which it operates.
Voluntary turnover of our staff continues to be below 1% per annum.
Group training and development Randgold Resources continues its support of the Malian Mining Industry University Scholarship scheme.
Of the 10 students studying electrical engineering 4, geology 2, mining 2 and chemical engineering 2, eight are expected to progress to 46 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 Directors reports Directors reports Our aim is to build a sustainably profitable business, capable of creating long-term value for all its stakeholders.
Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2006 Every company should be headed by an effective board, which This section of the annual report is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
provides a description of how the company has applied the principles The board is committed to guiding the strategic and set out in Section 1 of the 2003 entrepreneurial development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the Combined Code.
The board has reserved, for its sole discretion, the below, the company has complied finalisation and adoption of the groups strategic plan, major with the provisions set out in fiscal policies including treasury and hedging policies, approval Section 1 of the Code throughout of the budget, approval of all mining development and any merger and acquisition.
During the year, the board introduced a formal evaluation system to measure its own performance as well as those of its committees.
During the year the board met six times.
Attendance at the meetings is shown at the bottom of this page.
Where it is deemed appropriate, the chairman meets with the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors.
No formal meetings, however, were deemed necessary during the year ended 31 December 2006.
Appropriate insurance cover for directors and officers has been obtained by the company in respect of legal action against the directors.
MEETINGS ATTENDED Number Total number of meetings of board Directors Designation attended meetings P Litard Non-executive chairman 6 6 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 6 6 RA Williams Group finance director 6 6 BH Asher Senior independent director 5 6 J-A Cramer Independent non-executive 6 6 NP Cole Independent non-executive 2 2 RI Israel Independent non-executive 5 6 AL Paverd Independent non-executive 5 6 K Voltaire Independent non-executive 2 2 Mr Cramer retired from the board with effect from 27 October 2006.
Dr Voltaire and Mr Cole were appointed to the board on 3 May 2006.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head exception of the two directors appointed in 2006, of the company between the running of the board and the each of the non-executive directors owned shares in executive responsibility for the running of the companys the company during the year.
The non-executive directors also received an award of restricted shares business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers in addition to their directors fees.
The board believes of decision.
that this aligns their interests with those of other shareholders without compromising independence.
The non-executive chairman, Mr Philippe Litard, is responsible for the leadership of the board and to ensure effective Meetings of the boards committees were held regularly.
Where communication exists between the executive and non-executive appropriate, the chairman and the executive directors are directors.
invited to be in attendance.
The CEO, Dr Mark Bristow, has been delegated executive The companys senior independent director is Mr BH Asher.
A formal job description is in existence and this is reviewed annually by the board and the Shareholders are referred to the remuneration report on CEO.
page 57 for details of directors shareholdings.
The board should include a balance of executive and nonThere should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure executive directors and in particular independent non-executive for the appointment of new directors to the board.
directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
During 2006, the board reviewed its previous policy of retaining responsibility for appointments of new directors.
A governance Currently the board comprises eight members, two executive and nomination committee was established in October 2006. and six non-executive directors.
During the year, the board A charter for the effective organisation of the new committee size was increased by one from the previous year with the was approved and is published on the companys website.
appointment of two new non-executive directors and the The board approved the appointment of Mr Litard as chairman retirement of Mr J-A Cramer, a senior member of the board.
and Messrs Cole and Asher as members.
The new committee The board believes that mining is a long-gestation business met once in 2006. and as such justifies a longer period of service for non-executive directors than many industries.
Therefore reasonable periods During the year two new directors were appointed to the board.
of service are required for the stability of the board but new Ahead of the appointment of Mr Cole and Dr Voltaire, and prior appointments are needed from time to time to add a fresh to the appointment of the new committee, the board set out perspective.
Since listing in 1997, the company has had three specific objectives which any new candidate should satisfy chairmen and in total seen the retirement or resignation of five ahead of formal consideration and appointment.
decided that the positions would not be advertised.
After carefully considering and interviewing a number of prospective The board monitors compliance with the independence criteria candidates, it was felt that both Mr Cole and Dr Voltaire met included in the United Kingdom Financial Services Authoritys these objectives.
They were invited to the May board meeting, 2003 Combined Code Code and, save in certain instances at which time the entire board had an opportunity to meet and set out below for a periods of service and b award of options interact with the candidates before formally considering and and restricted shares, all non-executive directors meet the approving their appointment.
For the reasons set out below the board believes that the non-executive directors are independent.
During the latter part of the year, the governance and nomination a Currently, Dr Paverd and Messrs Asher and Israel committee was requested to consider recruiting a replacement have all served as directors for more than nine years.
Mr Cramers input as a Swiss banker had The board has considered their objectivity and provided a distinctly pan European contribution during his nine contributions and believes that these are still year tenure and, given the overall shareholder profile of the independent in character and judgement.
company, this factor would be considered key in selecting a b Messrs Asher and Israel continue to hold options in new non-executive director.
In accordance with the provisions terms of the companys share options scheme.
These of the companys Memorandum of Association, the two new were awarded in 1998 and the board does not believe non-executive directors will be subject to re-election at the that this interferes with their independence.
With the May 2007 annual general meeting.
