The highest market value during 2006 was 294p and the lowest was 189.50p.
No ESOS or SAYE options were exercised by executive Directors other than Mike Smith during the year and the notional gain was 120,750.
No amendments were made to performance conditions of any options granted prior to 2006.
Performance conditions were waived under the early leaver rules of the ESOS in respect of grants made since 2003 for David Boden.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 31 Remuneration report continued Company performance Shown below is the Companys TSR performance compared with the FTSE-250 index excluding investment companies for the five years to 31 December 2006.
The Committee has selected this index as the Company was a constituent of the FTSE-250 throughout this period.
As described on page 27, shares vest under the LTIP only if the Companys relative TSR performance is at or above the median.
The Companys relative TSR for the three year performance period ending 31 December 2006 is also shown below.
Value of hypothetical 100 holding 200 FTSE 250 150 Rank 100 50 0 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 LTIP: relative TSR growth % 80% Median 60% 40% 20% Rank 0% Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 On behalf of the Board Richard Greenhalgh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 March 2007 32 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code on legal action against its Directors.
To the extent permitted by Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 and annexed to the UK law, the Company also indemnifies the Directors.
Neither the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
insurance nor the indemnity provides cover in situations where This statement explains how the Company applies the principles a Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Chairman and Chief Executive Board There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the The Directors believe that it is essential that the Company Company, with the Chairman responsible for the effective operation should be both led and controlled by an effective Board.
of the Board, encouraging the active participation of all Directors, The Board has adopted a formal statement of its powers, and the Chief Executive responsible for the running of the duties and responsibilities, and recognises that its main Companys businesses.
The Board has approved formal statements functions are as follows: describing the role and remit of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which emphasise this division of their responsibilities.
agreeing objectives, policies and strategies, and monitoring the performance of the executive management: The Board is mindful of the need to ensure that the Chairman has enough time available to devote to the job.
Alun Cathcart was keeping under review the general progress and long term Chairman throughout 2006 and the Board was satisfied that his development of the Group in light of the political, economic other significant commitments had no material impact upon the and social environments in which it operates: amount of time that he was able to devote to his chairmanship of the Group during the year.
controlling and monitoring the financial state and performance of the Group including investment and nancing plans, Board balance and independence determining the desired financial ratios, approving the The Board includes a balance of executive and independent objectives of the Group Five Year Business Plan: non-executive Directors, whose biographical details are given on pages 22 and 23.
Richard Greenhalgh became the Senior Independent deciding on major changes in organisation and the shape Director in May 2006 following John Sunderlands retirement at of the Group, including entry into new elds of operation the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have and departure from those which are no longer appropriate: wide-ranging business experience, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards decision-making process.
approving major expenditure and transactions with other The Board also considered Peter Johnson as independent on his companies including, for example, acquisitions, disposals, appointment as a Director.
joint ventures and significant supply arrangements: Appointment of the Board ensuring that the Group pursues sound and proper policies The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and in relation to: transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
a safety, health and environmental matters: and The Board has formalised and adopted terms of reference for its Nominations Committee which are available on request to the b corporate governance: Company Secretary and are included on the Companys website.
A report of the Nominations Committees work during 2006 is delegating clear responsibility and authority to the Chairman, given on page 34.
Committees of the Board, the Chief Executive, Directors or groups of Directors, Ofcers and others: and The Board has agreed the terms and conditions for the appointment of non-executive Directors, which are also available for inspection giving approval or support, as appropriate, to the most senior and comply with the Code.
appointments in the Group and ensuring that adequate career development, succession and remuneration arrangements exist Information and professional development for them.
The Board receives a steady ow of information to enable it to discharge its duties, including a monthly report detailing There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards current and forecast trading results and treasury positions.
It also receives regular updates on shareholders views as part of the monthly report, and more formal briengs on shareholders Regular Board meetings are held not less than eight meetings views are given to the Board following the presentation of the in a year.
At least one meeting is devoted to strategy, and is held Companys interim and annual results.
Board papers are generally offsite from the Companys head ofce.
Ad hoc meetings are also distributed not less than five days in advance of the relevant convened to attend to any matters requiring Board consideration meeting to allow the Directors fully to prepare for meetings, in between regular meetings.
The Chairman holds at least one and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
meeting a year with the non-executive Directors without The Board is kept fully informed of developments within the the executive Directors being present and, led by the Senior Companys businesses through regular presentations by divisional Independent Director, the non-executive Directors meet management.
Induction programmes for newly-appointed without the Chairman present at least once a year to appraise Directors are devised to ensure that Directors spend time his performance.
with divisional management and can visit operational sites.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and to independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 33 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation In summary, the Committee assists the Board in reviewing the The evaluation process for the performance of the Board as a effectiveness of internal control systems.
The Committee also whole, and that of individual Directors, was carried out through reviews financial statements to be published externally before a questionnaire process between the Chairman and each their submission to the Board, in order to ensure that they Director.
This was designed to provide an objective assessment present a fair assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
It and covered the areas of Board process and administration, also authorises any change in accounting policies.
The Committee and the contribution made by each individual.
In addition, led by meets at least annually with the Head of Internal Audit and the Richard Greenhalgh, the Chairmans performance was evaluated external auditors without management being present.
The outcomes of these assessments were then reported to, and discussed by, the whole Board.
The Committee keeps under review the independence and The conclusion was reached that the Board continues to function objectivity of the external auditors, and their effectiveness.
effectively and that both the Board and its committees were In particular, the Committee oversees the nature and amount of discharging their duties in full accordance with their Terms non-audit work undertaken by  LLP each of Reference.
year to ensure that external auditor independence is safeguarded.
All non-audit services above a value of 50,000 to be performed The Audit Committees performance and the effectiveness of by the external auditors are required to be approved by the the external audit process were evaluated through the completion Audit Committee in advance and the Groups policy is that, of suitable questionnaires.
The Remuneration Committee where appropriate, non-audit work is put out to competitive considered and appraised its own performance during the year.
Details of the years fees paid to the external auditors The results of these evaluations, which were carried out by the are given in note 3 on page 54. members of the Committees, were reviewed by the Board.
In addition to more routine items of business, in 2006 the Re-election of Directors Committee commissioned an independent review of the design All Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at and operational effectiveness of the controls in place to support the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment, Blue Squares policy of not knowingly providing services to US and thereafter at intervals of not more than three years apart.
The Committee also reviewed the arrangements by which Non-executive Directors are engaged for an initial period employees may condentially raise concerns about possible of three years, subject to their re-appointment having been improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters confirmed by shareholders as described above.
under the Groups whistleblowing policy.
The Audit Committee The Finance Committee Ranks Audit Committee is comprised solely of independent The Finance Committee is an executive Committee to which non-executive Directors.
Details of the Committees membership certain specic authorities have been delegated by the Board, throughout 2006 are as follows: principally in respect to capital expenditure authorisation and the nancing of the Group.
The current members of the Committee Date first Date left are Peter Johnson Chairman, Ian Burke and Peter Gill.
appointed Committee Alun Cathcart chaired this Committee until Peter Johnson John Warren January 2006 took over from him on 1 March 2007, and Ian Burke replaced Brendan ONeill October 2004 Mike Smith on 6 March 2006.
Bill Shannon April 2006 The Nominations Committee Oliver Stocken October 1998 April 2006 The Nominations Committee is responsible for identifying John Sunderland February 1998 April 2006 and nominating, for the approval of the Board, all new Board appointments.
The Board believes that it is helpful for the Chairman and the Chief Executive to be formally involved in this Oliver Stocken chaired the Committee from May 2000 until he process and thus both of them are members of the Committee, retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in April as are all four of the non-executive Directors.
2006, at which point John Warren took over the chairmanship.
Composition of this Committee did not comply fully with the The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have Code in that the majority of its members were not independent recent and relevant financial experience.
Normally the Chairman, non-executive Directors until Bill Shannon joined it on 3 April 2006.
Chief Executive, Finance Director, the Company Secretary and Brendan ONeill and John Warren became members at the the Head of Internal Audit attend Committee meetings, as do conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting when representatives of the external auditors.
John Sunderland left the Board.
Peter Johnson replaced Alun Cathcart as Chairman of the Committee on 1 March 2007.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on request to the Company Secretary and are published on the During 2006, the Committee met formally on three occasions Companys website.
and agreed specications for new executive and non-executive Directors and a new Chairman, taking into account the existing balance of skills, knowledge, and experience on the Board.
An external search consultant was engaged to assist in the process of identifying suitable candidates, which led to the appointments of Ian Burke as Chief Executive, Peter Johnson as Chairman and Bill Shannon as a non-executive Director.
34 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006
