26 Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance Structure Corporate governance Corporate structure Compliance with codes of best practice Reed Elsevier came into existence in January 1993, when The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their have implemented standards of corporate governance and businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier disclosure policies applicable to companies listed on the Group plc, a UK registered company which owns the stock exchanges of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands publishing and information businesses, and Elsevier Reed and the United States.
The effect of this is that a standard Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which owns the applying to one will, where practicable and not in conflict, financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV also be observed by the other.
have retained their separate legal and national identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are listed in London and New York, and Reed Elsevier NVs support the principles and provisions of corporate securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the UK Code, including the Equalisation arrangements revised Turnbull guidance issued in October 2005, and the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2003 interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds the Dutch Code.
Save as explained below, Reed Elsevier a 39% interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Stock Elsevier NV holding a 61% interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC Exchange, has complied throughout the period under review additionally holds an indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier with the UK Code and Reed Elsevier NV, which has its NV, reflecting the arrangements entered into between the primary listing on Euronext Amsterdam, has complied two companies at the time of the merger, which determined throughout the period under review with the Dutch Code.
the equalisation ratio whereby one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share is, in broad terms, intended to confer equivalent The ways in which the relevant principles of corporate economic interests to 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary governance are applied and complied with within Reed shares.
The equalisation ratio is subject to change to reflect Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and share splits and similar events that affect the number of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are described below.
outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
The boards Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each Elsevier, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other than comprise a balance of executive and non-executive directors Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in Reed who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the Elsevier.
Holders of ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and deliberations of the boards.
All non-executive directors are Reed Elsevier NV enjoy substantially equivalent dividend and independent of management and free from any business or capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have agreed, other than in special circumstances, to All directors have full and timely access to the information recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with required to discharge their responsibilities fully and respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, efficiently.
They have access to the services of the respective the associated UK tax credit, based on the equalisation ratio.
company secretaries, other members of Reed Elseviers A Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share pays dividends in sterling management and staff, and its external advisors.
Directors and is subject to UK tax law with respect to dividend and may take independent professional advice in the furtherance capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share pays of their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
In addition to scheduled board and board committee meetings held during the year, directors attend many other meetings and site visits.
Where a director is unable to attend a board or board committee meeting, he or she is provided with all relevant papers and information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss issues arising with the respective chairman and other board members.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc are harmonised.
All the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are also directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed 27 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Elsevier NV shareholders maintain their rights to appoint re-appointment of the respective directors and the individuals to the respective boards, in accordance with the appointment of Mr Polet.
Being eligible, they will each offer provisions of the Articles of Association of these companies.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed to the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV either members of Reed Elsevier NV the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board or Reed Reed Elsevier NV has a two-tier board structure comprising Elsevier Group plc unless recommended by the joint a Supervisory Board of nine members, all of whom are Nominations Committee.
Members of the Committee abstain independent non-executives, and an Executive Board of six when their own re-appointment is being considered.
The Executive Board is responsible for the management of the company and the Supervisory Board In order to safeguard the agreed board harmonisation, the supervises the Executive Board.
The members of the Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier NV provide that Supervisory Board are Jan Hommen Chairman, Dien fide appointments of board members other than in accordance Boer-Kruyt, Mark Elliott, Lisa Hook from 19 April 2006, with nominations by the Combined Board, shall require a Cees van Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg 2 3 majority if less than 50% of the share capital is in and Strauss Zelnick.
Given the still generally low attendance rate at shareholders meetings in the Netherlands, the boards The Executive Board comprises Sir Crispin Davis Chief believe that this qualified majority requirement is appropriate Executive Officer, Mark Armour Chief Financial Officer, for this purpose.
Gerard van fide Aast, Erik Engstrom, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney.
In principle the Supervisory Board meets in On appointment and as required, directors receive training the presence of the Executive Board Combined Board.
The appropriate to their level of previous experience.
This boards met five times during the year.
Messrs Elliott, Reid includes the provision of a tailored induction programme so and Stomberg were each unable to attend one meeting and as to provide newly appointed directors with information Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt and Mr van Lede were each unable to about the Reed Elsevier businesses and other relevant attend two meetings.
Otherwise there was full attendance at information to assist them in performing their duties.
Nonthe meetings of the Executive and the Supervisory Boards.
executive directors are encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet management and senior staff.
At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 April 2007, Messrs Hommen and Stomberg and Lord All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV directors are Sharman will retire by rotation as members of the subject to retirement at least every three years, and are able Supervisory Board.
Mr van Lede will retire as a member of then to make themselves available for re-election by the Supervisory Board at the conclusion of the Annual shareholders at the respective Annual General Meetings.
General Meeting and a resolution to appoint Robert Polet as However, as a general rule, non-executive directors of Reed a member of the Supervisory Board will be submitted to the Elsevier PLC and members of the Reed Elsevier NV meeting.
Messrs Armour and Engstrom will retire by rotation Supervisory Board serve on the respective board for two as members of the Executive Board.
The Nominations three year terms, although the boards may invite individual Committee has recommended to the Combined Board the directors to serve up to one additional three year term.
re-appointment of the respective directors and the appointment of Mr Polet.
Being eligible, they will each offer Reed Elsevier PLC themselves for election.
The Reed Elsevier PLC board consists of six executive directors: Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Mark Reed Elsevier Group plc Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, Erik The Reed Elsevier Group plc board consists of six executive Engstrom, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney, and eight directors: Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Mark independent non-executive directors: Jan Hommen Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, Erik Chairman, Mark Elliott, Lisa Hook from 18 April 2006, Engstrom, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney, and eight Cees van Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg independent non-executive directors: Jan Hommen senior independent non-executive director and Strauss Chairman, Mark Elliott, Lisa Hook from 19 April 2006, Zelnick.
The board met five times during the year.
Messrs Cees van Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg Elliott, Reid and Stomberg were each unable to attend one senior independent non-executive director and Strauss meeting and Mr van Lede was unable to attend two Zelnick.
The board met eight times during the year.
Otherwise there was full attendance.
Elliott, Reid and Stomberg were each unable to attend one meeting and Mr van Lede was unable to attend two At the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting to be held meetings.
on 17 April 2007, Messrs Armour, Engstrom, Hommen and Stomberg and Lord Sharman will retire by rotation.
Mr van Mr van Lede will retire as a director on 18 April 2007.
Subject Lede will retire at the conclusion of the Annual General to his appointment being approved at the Annual General Meeting and a resolution to appoint Robert Polet as a nonMeetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, executive director will be submitted to the meeting.
The Mr Robert Polet will be appointed a director of Reed Elsevier Nominations Committee has recommended to the Board the Group plc on 18 April 2007.
28 Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance continued Biographical information in respect of the current members performance of individual executive directors and, led by the of the boards is given on page 27 of the Reed Elsevier Annual senior independent director, also assessed the performance Review and Summary Financial Statements 2006. of the Chairman.
Using questionnaires completed by all directors, the Committee reviewed the functioning and Elsevier Reed Finance BV constitution of the boards and their committees.
Based on Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure these assessments, the Committee believes that the comprising a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board.
The performance of each director continues to be effective and Supervisory Board during the year comprised Rudolf van den that they demonstrate commitment to their respective roles Brink Chairman, Mark Armour and Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, in Reed Elsevier.
with the Management Board consisting of Willem Boellaard and Jacques Billy.
Appointments to the Supervisory and The Committee is also responsible for recommending the Management Boards are made by the shareholders, in structure and operation of the various committees of the accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
The boards and the qualifications and criteria for membership Management Board and the Supervisory Board met three of each Committee, including the independence of members times during the year.
Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt was unable to of the boards.
attend one meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
The Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV has adopted rules governing the functioning of the boards and the relationship Board committees with shareholders, reflecting the requirements of the Dutch In accordance with the principles of good corporate Code, which are published on the Reed Elsevier website, governance, the following committees, all of which have www.
written terms of reference, have been established by the respective boards.
The terms of reference of these Nominations Committee committees are published on the Reed Elsevier website, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a www.
joint Nominations Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of Audit Committees new directors to the boards.
The Committee comprises a Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier majority of independent non-executive directors.
The Group plc have established Audit Committees.
The Committee is chaired by Jan Hommen, the other members Committees comprise only non-executive directors, all of being Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Cees van whom are independent.
The Committees are chaired by Lede, Lord Sharman and Rolf Stomberg.
Although he is not Lord Sharman, the other members being Lisa Hook from independent, the boards believe that it is appropriate for the 24 July 2006, David Reid and Strauss Zelnick.
A report of the Chief Executive Officer to be a member of the Committee, Audit Committees, setting out the role of the Committees and since he provides a perspective which assists the Committee their main activities during the year, appears on pages 32 in nominating candidates to the board who will be able to and 33. work as a team with both the executive and non-executive directors.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The Committees met five times during the year.
Mr Reid was Mr van Lede was unable to attend one meeting, otherwise unable to attend one meeting and Mr Zelnick was unable to there was full attendance.
attend two meetings, otherwise there was full attendance.
The Committees terms of reference include assuring board The functions of an audit committee in respect of the succession and making recommendations to the boards of financing activities are carried out by the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Group plc concerning the appointment or re-appointment of directors to, and the retirement of directors from, those Corporate Governance Committee boards.
In conjunction with the Chairman of the Reed Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a Elsevier Group plc Remuneration Committee and external joint Corporate Governance Committee, which comprises consultants, the Committee is also responsible for developing only non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
proposals for the remuneration and fees for new directors.
In The Committee is chaired by Jan Hommen, the other recommending appointments to the Reed Elsevier NV members being Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, Mark Elliott, Lisa Hook Supervisory Board the Committee considers the knowledge, from 19 April 2006, Cees van Lede, David Reid, experience and background of individual directors and the Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg and Strauss Zelnick.
The Supervisory Board as a whole.
Committee met twice during the year.
Messrs van Lede and Reid and Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt were each unable to attend one Based on the assessment by the Corporate Governance meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
Committee of the qualifications and performance of each individual director, the Nominations Committee recommends During the period the Committee reviewed ongoing the re-appointment of the directors seeking re-election at developments and best practice in corporate governance and the Annual General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and approved revised corporate governance policies reflecting Reed Elsevier NV in 2007. current best practice.
The Committee assessed the 29 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Remuneration Committee published on the Reed Elsevier website, Reed Elsevier Group plc has established a Remuneration www.
Reed Elsevier NV is a participant in Committee which comprises only independent non-executive the Dutch Shareholder Communication Channel directors.
The Committee is chaired by Rolf Stomberg, and www.
nl which facilitates proxy voting.
the other members who served throughout the year were Mark Elliott and Cees van Lede.
During the year, the Internal control company decided to take advantage of the relaxations to the UK Code to be permitted under the updated Combined Code Parent companies on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006.
Accordingly, The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Jan Hommen, who was considered independent at the time exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities and of his appointment as Chairman of the Board in 2005, systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and became a member of the Committee with effect from 24 July Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC 2006.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Mr van and Reed Elsevier NV have each adopted a schedule of Lede was unable to attend one meeting, otherwise there was matters which are required to be brought to them for full attendance.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, and board the remuneration in all its forms of executive directors receive regular reports on the operations, including the of Reed Elsevier Group plc, and provides advice to the Chief treasury and risk management activities, of the two Executive Officer on the remuneration of executives at a companies.
Major transactions proposed by the boards of senior level below the board.
It also makes recommendations Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV require to the board of Reed Elsevier PLC and to the Supervisory the approval of the boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Board of Reed Elsevier NV regarding the remuneration of the Reed Elsevier NV.
executive directors of these companies.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit The fees of non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Committees meet on a regular basis to review the systems of of the Supervisory Board members of Reed Elsevier NV are internal control and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group determined by the respective Boards of Directors, within the plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
limits set out in the Articles of Association of the respective companies, as approved by shareholders.
Operating companies The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been approved system of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing and by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC information businesses, while the boards of Elsevier Reed and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 34 to 51.
This report Finance BV are responsible for the system of internal control also serves as disclosure of the directors remuneration in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards of Reed policy, and the remuneration and interests in shares of the Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are also directors of the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of their system of and Reed Elsevier NV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Relations with shareholders Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the more significant risks faced by their respective businesses.
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, and presentations on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses are This process has been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 and up to the date of the approvals of made after the announcement of the interim and full year results.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006.
NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes and views of the companies institutional shareholders and the results are Reed Elsevier Group plc Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework of the subject of formal presentations to the respective boards.
A trading update is provided at the respective Annual General procedures and internal controls, with which the management of each business is required to comply.
Group Meetings of the two companies, and towards the end of the financial year.
The Annual General Meetings provide an businesses are required to maintain systems of internal control, which are appropriate to the nature and scale of their opportunity for the boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the activities and address all significant operational and financial risks that they face.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has Chief Financial Officer, the Chairmen of the board committees, other directors and a representative of the adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
external auditors are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The interim and annual results Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business announcements and presentations, together with the trading updates and other important announcements and corporate Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals and requires officers and employees to behave in an open, governance documents concerning Reed Elsevier, are 30 Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance continued honest, ethical and principled manner.
The Code also reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material outlines confidential procedures enabling employees to misstatement or loss.
report any concerns about compliance, or about Reed Elseviers financial reporting practice.
The Code is published In accordance with the Dutch Code, the boards have on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
confirmed, subject to the above, that the respective risk management and control systems as regards financial Each division has identified and evaluated its major risks, the reporting risks provide reasonable assurance that the controls in place to manage those risks and the level of financial reporting does not contain material inaccuracies residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control and have functioned properly during the year.
procedures are embedded into the operations of the business and include the monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to management and board attention.
Responsibilities in respect of the financial The major risks identified include business continuity, statements protection of IT systems and data, challenges to intellectual property rights, management of strategic and operational The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed change, evaluation and integration of acquisitions, and Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required recruitment and retention of personnel.
to prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of The major strategic risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group plc affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the respective companies businesses are considered by the board.
Litigation and other and their subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
They are legal and regulatory matters are managed by legal directors responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for in Europe and the United States.
safeguarding assets, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives directors are also responsible for selecting suitable regular reports on the management of material risks and accounting policies and applying them on a consistent basis, reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives making judgments and estimates that are prudent and regular reports from both internal and external auditors on reasonable.
In addition, each division is required, at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the its internal controls and report its findings on a detailed basis Reed Elsevier combined financial statements, which are the to the management of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These responsibility of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed reports are summarised and, as part of the annual review of Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Committee of Reed comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the board on any significant internal control Going concern matters arising.
The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, Elsevier Reed Finance BV having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in which are applied for all Elsevier Reed Finance BV operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, companies.
The boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in adopted schedules of matters that are required to be brought preparing the financial statements.
Procedures are in place for monitoring the activities of the finance group, including a comprehensive US certifications treasury reporting system.
The major risks affecting the finance group have been identified and evaluated and are As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act subject to regular review.
The controls in place to manage 2002 and by related rules issued by the US Securities and these risks and the level of residual risk accepted are Exchange Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief monitored by the boards.
The internal control system of the Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier Elsevier Reed Finance BV group is reviewed each year by its NV certify in the respective Annual Reports 2006 on Form external auditors.
20-F to be filed with the Commission that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Annual review controls and procedures and that they have: As part of the year end procedures, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and designed such disclosure controls and procedures to Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness of the ensure that material information relating to Reed Elsevier systems of internal control and risk management during the is made known to them: last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elseviers disclosure business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide controls and procedures: 31 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management or other employees who have a significant role in Reed Elsevier internal controls: and presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2006 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior Reed Elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding their Section 302 certifications.
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports 2006 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2006 on Form 20-F.
