32 Report of the Audit Committees Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction matters within their terms of reference and have access to with the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, the all resources and information that they may require for this Committees and has been approved by the respective boards.
The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and other independent professional advice and have the authority The report meets the requirements of the Combined Code to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
of Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial Services Authority.
A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee is published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Audit Committees The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in Committee membership relation to the respective companies are set out in written terms of reference and include: The Committees each comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
The current members of each i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the of the Committees are: Lord Sharman Chairman of the company, and any formal announcements relating to the Committees, Lisa Hook from 24 July 2006, David Reid and companys financial performance, reviewing significant Strauss Zelnick.
Lord Sharman and David Reid are financial reporting judgments contained in them: considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
ii to review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management Lord Sharman 63, a chartered accountant, spent his systems: professional career at KPMG and now serves as nonexecutive Chairman of Aviva PLC and Aegis Group plc.
He is iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys a member of the Supervisory Board of ABN-AMRO NV and a internal audit function: non-executive director of BG Group plc.
He was elected UK senior partner of KPMG in 1994 and served as Chairman of iv to make recommendations to the board, for it to put KPMG Worldwide between 1997 and 1999.
Lisa Hook 48 is to the shareholders for their approval in general the president and chief executive officer of Sun Rocket Inc: meetings, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment she was previously the president of AOL Broadband, and removal of the external auditor and to approve Premium and Developer Services.
David Reid 60, the remuneration and terms of engagement of the a chartered accountant, was appointed non-executive external auditor: Chairman of Tesco PLC in April 2004.
Prior to this appointment, he was executive Deputy Chairman, with v to review and monitor the external auditors responsibility for strategy, business development and independence and objectivity and the effectiveness international operations: he was previously the finance of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant director of Tesco PLC.
Strauss Zelnick 49 is the founder professional and regulatory requirements: and of Zelnick Media Corporation.
He is Chairman of Columbia Music Entertainment Inc, Direct Holdings Worldwide LLC and vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of OTX Corporation.
Prior to founding Zelnick Media he was the external auditor to supply non audit services, taking President and Chief Executive Officer of BMG Entertainment.
into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non audit services by the external audit firm, Appointments to the Committees are made on the and to monitor compliance.
recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are for periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than The Committees report to the respective boards on their two additional three-year periods, so long as the member activities identifying any matters in respect of which they continues to be independent.
Details of the remuneration consider that action or improvement is needed and making policy in respect of members of the Committees and the recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
remuneration paid to members for the year ended 31 December 2006 are set out in the Directors Remuneration The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this Report on pages 34 to 51. role in respect of the publishing and information operating business.
The functions of an audit committee in respect Committee activities of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: in and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles January, February, June, July and December, and report on from the perspective of the parent companies and both these meetings to the respective boards at the next board Committees have access to the reports to and the work meetings.
The principal business of these meetings includes: of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board in this respect.
January: review of critical accounting policies and practices, and significant financial reporting issues 33 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 and judgments made in connection with the annual iii received and discussed regular reports on the financial statements: review of internal control management of material risks and reviewed the effectiveness: reviewing and approving the internal effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
As part audit plan: review of internal audit findings of this review, detailed internal control evaluation and certification is obtained from management across the February: review and approval of annual financial operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit statements, results announcement and related formal and discussed with the Committees.
statements: review of external audit findings iv received and discussed regular reports from the director of June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, internal audit summarising the status of the Reed Elsevier performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and risk management activities and the findings from internal independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness audit reviews and the actions agreed with management.
An of the external and internal audit process: agreeing the area of focus in 2006 has been to review the progress in external audit plan: reviewing significant financial reporting addressing the requirements of Section 404 of the US issues and judgments arising in connection with the interim Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and financial statements: review of risk management activities: testing of internal controls over financial reporting.
review of report from external auditors on control matters: review of internal audit findings v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2006 and monitored execution.
Reviewed the resources and July: review and approval of the interim financial budget of the internal audit function.
statements, results announcement and related formal statements: review of external audit findings: review of The external auditors have attended all meetings of the internal audit findings Committees.
They have provided written reports at the June, July, December and February meetings summarising the December: review of year end financial reporting and most significant findings from their audit work.
These reports accounting issues: review of significant external financial have been discussed by the Committees and actions agreed reporting and regulatory developments: review of external where necessary.
audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings.
The external auditors have confirmed their independence The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier by the chief financial officer, group chief accountant, director policy on auditor independence.
This policy sets out inter alia of internal audit and senior representatives of the external the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and other auditors.
Additionally, the managing director and senior senior partners, as well as guidelines for the provision of representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed permitted non audit services.
The Committees have reviewed Finance BV attend the July and February meetings of the and agreed the non audit services provided by the external parent company Audit Committees.
At two or more of the auditors, together with the associated fees.
The external meetings each year, the Committees additionally meet auditors fees for audit services have been reviewed and separately with the external auditors without management approved by the Committees.
present, and also with the director of internal audit.
At their meeting in June 2006, the Committees conducted In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect a formal review of the performance of the external auditors of the 2006 financial year, the Committees have: and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Based on this review, and on their subsequent observations on the i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier planning and execution of the external audit for the year Group plc group chief accountant that set out areas ended 31 December 2006, the Committees have of significance in the preparation of the financial recommended to the respective boards that resolutions for statements, including: review of the carrying values of the re-appointment of the external auditors be proposed goodwill and intangible assets for possible impairment, at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
review of estimated useful lives of intangible assets, accounting for pensions and related assumptions, The effectiveness of the process for internal audit activities accounting for share based remuneration and related and of the operation of the Audit Committees was reviewed in assumptions, accounting treatment for acquisitions December.
and disposals, application of revenue recognition and cost capitalisation, accounting for derivatives, review of tax Lord Sharman of Redlynch reserves and provisions for lease obligations.
Chairman of the Audit Committees ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance 14 February 2007 with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure requirements and have received regular update reports on accounting and regulatory developments.
