Regus Report & Accounts 2006 22 Corporate governance The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and all governance set out in the Combined Code published in July 2003 directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved the Code for financial periods beginning after 1 November concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and this report describes how the Board applied the principles Roles of Board members of good governance.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
the Board At 31 December 2006, the Board of directors was made up The Chairman of seven members comprising the Chairman, three executive John Matthews is responsible for leadership of the Board, directors and three non-executive directors.
Biographical details setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures of the directors are set out on pages 14 and 15. effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both Role of the Board the contribution of the non-executive directors and constructive The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial relations between the executive directors and non-executive leadership and to review the overall strategic development of directors.
The Board approves the corporate plan and the annual budget and reviews performance against targets at every The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, are meeting.
Through the Audit Committee, the directors ensure responsible for ensuring all directors are properly briefed on the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and financial controls and the internal control and risk management timely access to relevant information.
The Board has delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to set the remuneration policy for directors and The Chairman is not deemed to be independent because he senior management.
The Nomination Committee recommends has been a non-executive director for more than ten years.
the appointment of Board directors and has responsibility for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board The Chief Executive Committees have authority to make decisions in their areas Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its of expertise.
delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the Frequency of meetings successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decisionThere were nine scheduled Board meetings during 2006. making and responsibilities accordingly.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and Non-executive directors individual attendance by the directors are shown below.
The non-executive directors each bring their own senior level of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent Main Audit Remuneration Nomination counsel brought to the Group by the non-executives enhances Board Committee Committee Committee the overall decision making of the Board.
Non-executives are Total meetings 9 3 5 1 appointed for an initial three year term, subject to election by Mark Dixon 9 shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Stephen Gleadle 9 The Board consider the non-executive directors to be Rudy Lobo 9 independent.
The senior independent director and Chairman John Matthews 9 1 of the Audit Committee, Roger Orf has served on the Board for Stephen East 8 2 5 1 over eight years.
His ongoing independence will be reviewed in Roger Orf 9 3 5 1 accordance with the Code later this year.
Martin Robinson 8 3 5 1 Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising Matters reserved for the Board the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board its decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered meetings and discussions.
The appointment and removal of the powers of decision.
These include: Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Approval of regulatory announcements including the interim Board Committees and annual financial statements The Board has delegated certain of its governance Terms of reference and membership of the Board and responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration its Committees Committees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings Changes to the Groups capital structure are circulated to all Board members.
Changes to the Groups management and control structure Capital investment in excess of 1 million Material contracts annual value in excess of 5 million.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 23 The terms of reference of these committees have been the AGM.
The Committee will continue to keep under review documented and approved by the Board and are available on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the the Companys website www.
A brief summary of effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the lead the members, activities and terms of reference of the Board audit partner.
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Audit Committee Companys external auditor is monitored by and, above certain Roger Orf Chairman thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to Stephen East ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair Martin Robinson their independence or objectivity.
During the year, KPMG performed due diligence work on certain acquisitions.
KPMG is The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying an prohibited from providing services that would be considered to effective system of internal control and compliance, accurate jeopardise their independence such as book keeping services, external financial reporting, fulfilling its obligations under law valuations and system design.
and the Combined Code, and managing the relationship with the Companys external auditors to the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors.
Martin Robinson Chairman Roger Orf The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
Stephen East At the request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the executive directors, the Company Secretary and the Head Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the of Internal Audit attend each meeting.
Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 33.
Nomination Committee Summary terms of reference John Matthews Chairman Roger Orf Financial Reporting provide support to the Board by Stephen East monitoring the integrity of and ensuring that the published Martin Robinson financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial The Committee meets as required during the year to performance comply fully with the relevant statutes and consider matters delegated to it.
During 2006, there were no accounting standards.
changes to the Board and therefore only one formal meeting Internal control and risk systems review the of the Nominations Committee was required to approve the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk reappointment of John Matthews, Roger Orf and Martin management systems.
Robinson for further three year terms.
Board effectiveness, Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal performance and leadership were discussed informally by audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function the Board as a whole.
is adequately resourced and free from management restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors.
Summary terms of reference Board appointment and composition to regularly review External audit advise the Board on the appointment, the structure, size and composition of the Board and make re-appointment, remuneration and removal of the external recommendations on the role and nomination of directors for auditors.
appointment and reappointment to the Board for the purpose Employee concerns review the Companys arrangements of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of skills, knowledge under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns and experience.
regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of allow proportionate and independent investigation and the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment appropriate follow up action.
and removal of directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and The Committee also meets independently with the Companys Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations to auditors and with the Head of Internal Audit to informally discuss the Board.
Board performance assist the Chairman with the annual performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual External auditors performance and effectiveness of the Board.
KPMG Audit Plc were the Companys auditors for the year ended 31 December 2006.
For 2007, the Committee has Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors be proposed at under review the leadership needs of the organisation to enable it to compete effectively.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 24 Corporate governance continued principal risks and uncertainties Given that transactions generally take place in the functional There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have currency of group companies, the Groups exposure to an impact on the Groups long term performance.
The Group transactional foreign exchange rate risk is limited.
However, has a risk management structure in place designed to identify, the translation to sterling of overseas profits and net assets manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment and will be affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event that evaluation is an essential part of the annual planning, budgeting either the US dollar or euro were to significantly depreciate or and forecasting cycle.
appreciate against sterling, this would have an adverse or beneficial impact to the Groups reported performance and The directors have identified the following principal risks and position respectively.
These do not constitute all of the risks facing the Group.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company, together with an analysis of the exposure to such Economic downturn in significant markets risks, as required by the Companies Act 1985 are set out in The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in the note 23 of the Accounts.
Wherever possible, the Group attempts Americas predominantly the USA and UK.
An economic to create natural hedges against currency exposures through downturn in these markets could adversely affect the Groups matching income and expense and assets and liabilities in the operating revenues thereby reducing operating performance same currency.
The Group does not hedge profit translation or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in operating losses.
exposure since such hedges only have a temporary effect.
The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: internal controls The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining a sound The Group has entered into performance based leases with system of internal control and for periodically reviewing its landlords where rent costs vary with revenues earned by effectiveness.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report Building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they become Code, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, onerous.
In cities with a number of centres this allows the managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
The Group to stagger leases such that an orderly reduction in Groups system of internal controls is designed to: exposure to the location may be facilitated.
The profile of clients in a centre is continually reviewed to facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks which avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients in a might affect the achievement of the Groups objectives particular industry group.
safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud Exposure to movements in property markets help ensure the quality of internal and external financial A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent reporting review clauses.
This means that the costs of these leases may help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
vary as a result of external movements in the property market.
In particular, in the UK lease contracts typically contain upward No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance only rent reviews which means that should open market rents against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system decrease, then Regus could be exposed to paying higher than of controls helps to manage rather than eliminate the risk of market rent in these locations.
failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally be If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate customers due to local property market conditions then this action.
could result in reduced profitability or operating losses in these markets.
Strategy and risk management The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent review direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly clauses, the Group may benefit by paying below market rent in plans and performance targets for 2007 have been set by the a market with increasing open market rents.
This may allow the executive directors and are regularly reviewed by the main Group to improve profitability if the movements in open market Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
rents are passed on to clients.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Exposure to movements in exchange rates managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks The Group has significant overseas operations whose businesses and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible are generally conducted in the currency of the country in which executives as a part of the budget process and these are they operate.
The principal exposures of the Group are to the endorsed by regional management.
Key risks are reported to US dollar and the euro with approximately 39% of the Groups the Board and the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness revenues being attributable to the dollar and 19% to the euro of controls is considered by the executives, having regard to respectively.
cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are regularly considered by the Board and are formally reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 25 Control environment The Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at all to the approval of transactions.
Purchase orders must be levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place to obtained in advance for all purchases in excess of 1,000. support this: Numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to the induction process is used to educate new team members provide management at all levels with performance data for on the standards required from them in their role, including their area of responsibility which helps them to focus on business ethics and compliance, regulations and internal operational issues that may require their input.
policies all team members are provided with a copy of the Team Information and communications processes Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance on The senior management team are integrally involved in the employee policies and the standards of behaviour required business and to this extent regularly discuss and address issues of staff and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, are held with policies and procedures manuals and guidelines are readily the regional teams and functional heads on a monthly basis.
accessible through the Groups intranet site operational audit and self-certification tools which require Regular staff communications include general information on individual centre managers to confirm their adherence to the business from senior management as well as operational Group policies and procedures.
guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy Sales staff and operational management periodically attend to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and sales or management conferences at which information on staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
Additionally in 2006 a senior management conference provided a platform for sharing The Group has also established an externally hosted whistlethe Groups overall strategy.
Delegates presented the key blowing channel to all staff to report issues and concerns in messages to employees who did not attend the event.
Monitoring effectiveness Control processes The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year various times during the year in the conduct of its review of and up to 19 March 2007, the date of approval of this Annual internal controls: Report, which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
These include the following: Review of the Groups monthly management accounts which contain detailed analysis of financial performance The Board normally meets with regional executives every for the Group and each of the Groups geographic reporting six months together to carry out a wide-ranging review of segments.
Group and regional financial performance, business An ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, development opportunities, Group infrastructure and senior management meetings and divisional reviews as well general Group management issues.
as other management meetings, for the formal identification The annual budget process is driven from senior management of significant operational risks and mitigating control meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed level by business processes.
centre and roll-up at a country and regional level.
The executive Internal audit reviews of key risk areas.
The findings directors review regional budgets to ensure consistency with and recommendations of each review are reported to regional strategic objectives, and the final budget is reviewed management and the Audit Committee.
and approved by the Board.
The approved budget forms the basis of business management throughout the year.
Quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness Operational reports and financial reports are prepared and of investment activity.
distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results are reviewed against budget and forecast and explanations A bi-annual internal control self-assessment and are received for all material movements.
management certification exercise covering the effectiveness of financial and operational controls.
This is based on a Key policies and control procedures including finance, comprehensive internal control questionnaire collated and operations, and health and safety are documented in reviewed by Internal Audit.
Results and any necessary manuals having Group-wide application.
These are available mitigating action plans are presented to senior management to all staff on the Groups intranet system.
The Board has formal procedures in place for the review and approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The Group Other matters Investment Committee comprising the executive directors Board performance evaluation review all investments prior to approval by the Board.
During 2006, a formal annual performance evaluation has been Additionally the form and content of investment proposals conducted in respect of the Board, its Committees and of each is standardised to facilitate the review process.
individual director by means of an internally produced written questionnaire.
This required performance to be scored on a scale of 1 to 5 against a number of criteria with 1 representing Regus Report & Accounts 2006 26 Corporate governance continued a need for urgent improvement in performance, 3 representing AGM adequate performance and 5 representing excellent The AGM is held normally in May in London and is attended, performance.
other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, The results of these evaluations were consolidated by the there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited Chairman and presented to the Board for formal consideration.
to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the All criteria were scored as adequate or better and therefore directors informally afterwards.
no formal corrective actions have been initiated.
The senior independent non-executive director reviewed the Chairmans Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents are performance.
mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
Training and resources The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against Appropriate training is made available for all new directors to each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training is announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands.
provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website www.
During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst Re-election of the Board the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting All directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders developments through presentations from management, internal at least every three years and directors appointed during the audit and the external auditors.
The Board programme includes period are required to seek re-election at the next AGM.
presentations from management at which, together with site visits, increases the non-executive directors understanding of Non-executive directors are subject to the re-election the business and sector.
requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, which have an initial three year term.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board Compliance statement procedures, corporate governance and regulatory compliance The Company has complied with the provisions set out in are followed and complied with.
Should a director request section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such 31 December 2005, with the exception of the following: advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
Provision D. 1.1 The senior independent non-executive Directors and officers insurance director, Roger Orf does not have regular meetings with The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and major external shareholders.
appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the directors and senior management in the event of a claim being brought The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the against any of them in their capacity as directors and officers of main non-executive conduit for investors, rather than the senior the Company.
The Chairman makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major Dialogue with shareholders announcements and may be contacted by investors at any Regus reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with the time.
The Chairman updates the Board and particularly the interim results normally announced in September and the senior independent non-executive director on the results of his preliminary final results normally announced in March.
There meetings and the opinions of investors.
On this basis, Regus are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial considers that the senior independent non-executive director is Officer to give presentations of these results to the Companys able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of major institutional investors, analysts and media in London and other shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors on the Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
The non-executive directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on request.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM.
The Company has appointed Brunswick Group plc as their Investor Relations adviser.
