Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 18 18 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Board balance and independence corporate governance.
Each of the three non-executive directors is considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement This report, together with the Directors remuneration report and there are no relationships or circumstances that are on page 21 sets out how the Company has applied the likely to affect a non-executive directors judgement.
principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent nonA.
The Board does not comply with this requirement as it considers the balance of the Board to be The Board appropriate for the size of business.
The Board comprises five executive and three non-executive directors.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, The senior independent director role is rotated between management of effective business controls and review of the non-executive directors on an annual basis.
There is a formal schedule of matters independent director for the year ended 30th June 2006 specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include the was Terry Garthwaite and the senior independent director approval of annual and interim results, acquisitions and for the year beginning 1st July 2006 is Joe McGeehan.
disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, material The senior independent director is available to discuss agreements, senior executive appointments and removals concerns with shareholders should the normal channels including the company secretary, any patent-related of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group Finance dispute and other material litigation, forecasts and major Director fail to resolve such concerns or for which such product development projects.
The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its The directors holding office at the date of this report and duties effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June their biographical details are given on pages 6 and 7.
2006, the Board met 8 times and the directors attendance record at Board and committee meetings is set out at the Appointments to the Board end of this report.
In addition, the non-executive directors The Remuneration and nomination committee is the met a number of times without executive directors present.
committee responsible for reviewing the structure and The Board has two formally constituted committees, the composition of the Board and nominating candidates for Audit committee and the Remuneration and nomination appointment to the Board.
All the members of this committee.
There is an executive committee known as committee are independent non-executive directors and the Executive Board that is responsible for the executive a list of membership and the chair of the committee is set management of the Groups businesses.
It is chaired by out on page 7.
The terms of reference of this committee the Chairman and includes the executive directors of are published on the Companys website.
Renishaw plc and the President of Renishaw Inc. No new appointments to the Board have been made A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps during the year.
out the structure of delegation below Board level and The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors includes the matters reserved to the Executive Board.
are available for inspection at the annual general meeting If there are any concerns raised by directors that cannot and at the registered office upon written request.
be resolved, such a matter would be recorded in the board None of the executive directors hold a directorship in a minutes.
No such concerns have been highlighted.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors Information and professional development and officers.
The Board receives appropriate documentation, Chairman and Chief Executive management accounts, forecasts and commentaries The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined thereon in advance of each Board meeting to enable role and thus contrary to the recommendations of the its members to review the financial performance of the Code.
However, the Board considers that there is still a Group, current trading and key business initiatives.
clear division of responsibilities at Board level to ensure Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal an appropriate balance of power and authority.
training courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided as appropriate.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend internal conferences, which provide information to the Group on new product development and marketing initiatives.
All directors have access to the company secretary and to independent professional advice at the Companys expense where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as director.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 19 19 Performance evaluation The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for The Board established a formal process last year, led by the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks senior independent director, for the annual evaluation of the facing the Group that has been in place during the year, performance of the Board and the Chairman.
This includes and which is regularly reviewed and accords with the the completion of a questionnaire designed and approved by Turnbull guidance.
The Board confirms that necessary the Board to provide a framework for the evaluation process.
action has been or is being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from its review.
It is the role of the senior independent director to summarise the responses and discuss them with individual directors Audit committee and auditors and with the Board as a whole.
The Audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors.
A list of the members and the chairman is set Re-election out on page 7.
The Board is satisfied that at least two In accordance with the articles of association of the members of the committee have recent and relevant Company, the directors who offer themselves up for financial experience, being Terry Garthwaite and David re-election at the annual general meeting to be held in Snowden.
The terms of reference of this committee were October 2006 will be Ben Taylor and Joe McGeehan.
reviewed during the year and are available on the Their biographical details are set out on pages 6 and 7.
Joe McGeehan was appointed as a non-executive director in January 2001 and, subject to re-election, will have held The committee reviews the accounting policies and office for six years in January 2007.
The Board has procedures of the Group, its annual and interim financial considered Joe McGeehans performance as a nonstatements before submission to the Board and its executive director of the Company and believes that compliance with statutory requirements.
The committee his performance continues to be effective and he monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and demonstrates a commitment to his role at Renishaw.
announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
Directors remuneration It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the The Directors remuneration report set out on page 21 internal control systems and internal audit function.
explains how the Company applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
The committee has primary responsibility for making the recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and C. Accountability and audit removal of external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting.
Financial reporting It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity in connection with the financial statements are explained in of the auditors.
The auditors provide a confirmation of the Statement of directors responsibilities and the independence on an annual basis.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of the nonGoing concern audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular On the basis of current financial projections and available reports on the balance of audit to non-audit fees.
funds and facilities, the directors have a reasonable The committee reviews the policy by which employees of expectation that the Group has adequate resources to the Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
including possible improprieties in financial reporting or For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern other matters.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The committee meets at least three times a year with the Internal control Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and The Board is responsible for the Companys system of the external auditors in attendance.
At least one meeting, internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
or part, is held with the external auditors without executive There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation directors present.
There are also established and centrally documented control procedures, including, for example, capital and other expenditure, information and technology security, and legal and regulatory compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
There is an ongoing process for the review of business risks throughout the Group.
These are reported on a monthly basis by senior management and by overseas subsidiaries.
These reports are reviewed by the Board at each of their meetings.
The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and an updated risk and controls analysis for the Group.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 20 20 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: continued D. Relations with shareholders Director Board AC R&NC D R McMurtry 8 8 - - Dialogue with institutional shareholders D J Deer 8 8 - - Presentations are given to institutional investors following B R Taylor 8 8 - - publication of the half-year and full-year results, when A C G Roberts 8 8 - - interim and annual reports are delivered to all shareholders.
G McFarland 8 8 - - Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the J P McGeehan 6 8 2 3 3 3 Companys headquarters and manufacturing sites where T D Snowden 7 8 3 3 3 3 they will meet at least one of the executive directors and T B Garthwaite 8 8 3 3 3 3 have the opportunity of discussing any issues with them.
Meetings with investors, analysts and media are reported AC - Audit committee: R&NC - Remuneration and at each Board meeting and analysts and brokers reports nomination committee circulated so that the Board develops an understanding of Compliance statement the views of investors and others.
The Board considers that it has complied with the If requested, non-executive directors are available to attend requirements of the Code except in relation to the following meetings with major shareholders.
matters the reasons for non-compliance are stated in the All directors attend the annual general meeting at which report above : they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
the combined role of chairman and chief executive: Constructive use of the annual general meeting the Chairman and Chief Executive and the Deputy The annual general meeting takes place at the Companys Chairman became subject to re-election by shareholders headquarters and formal notification is sent to the from October 2005: and shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, does A business presentation is given at the meeting and all not comprise independent non-executive directors.
directors are available for questions during and after the meeting.
Tours of the Companys research and development and manufacturing facilities are offered.
A C G Roberts FCA Secretary The Company reports on the number of proxy votes 26th July 2006 lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders attending the annual general meeting and published on the Companys website following the meeting.
Board and committee membership attendance record Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of the Board and its committees at which the director was present and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was eligible to attend during the year.
