Directors Report Substantial shareholdings Payments to suppliers At the date of this report, the Company had received notification The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms from the following financial institutions in the voting rights of the and conditions under which they conduct business transactions Company, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency with their suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The number of shares and payment and make payments to suppliers in accordance with percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date on which those terms, provided that suppliers have complied with all the holding was notified.
Financial institutions and their clients interests of 3% or The Company had 21 days 2005: 12 days purchases more in issued ordinary share capital of the Company outstanding at 31 December 2006 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers.
Shares % AMVESCAP PLC 64,247,356 11.01 Employees Barclays PLC 26,987,197 4.85 The Rexam Way establishes the core values that distinguish Legal & General Group Plc 19,348,021 3.31 Rexam as a market leader and employer of choice.
Trust, Teamwork, Continuous Improvement and Recognition are the Share capital values that the Group has chosen and which involve, inform and Full details of the Companys share capital can be found in note 27 motivate employees to work towards the vision of making Rexam to the consolidated financial statements.
the leading global consumer packaging company.
The Rexam Way Impact Program has been designed to support these core Donations values.
Its aim is to raise performance by getting the best from Charitable donations made by the Group in 2006 are shown in empowered teams through a series of workshops and follow-up the table, with further details provided below.
No donations were action plans.
The Group has also developed the Talent Management Program, Charitable donations the objective of which is to identify and systematically develop 2006 2005 the careers of the highest potential individuals, worldwide.
As UK 61,000 68,000 part of this process selected employees attend an assessment Worldwide 589,000 790,000 centre which facilitates the creation of personal development plans.
As a continuing part of leadership development the In the UK, donations were given to Eco 4 The World Foundation, Group runs a series of programmes under the banner of Horizon, a United Nations sponsored educational foundation which starting at graduate level and working its way to Board level.
aims to encourage young people to become more involved The Horizon programmes are run in conjunction with various in environmental conservation: The Princes Trust, a charity globally renowned business schools.
helping young people to become self sufficient: and the British Occupational Health Research Foundation, which contributes Further information on the Groups training and development to the well being of working people.
programmes can be found in the Business Review on page 26.
Worldwide donations included a donation to Abralatas, an The Group has active policies of equal opportunity ranging from aluminium can recycling organisation in Brazil: the Camp selection and recruitment to training and development which meet Coca-Cola Foundation in the United States: and to local the needs of its operations around the world.
Disabled people community healthcare and educational initiatives in Russia.
are given full consideration for employment and subsequent training including, if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
42 Directors Report In 2006 the Group initiated a Diversity & Inclusiveness Annual General Meeting 2007 programme to help develop its global culture.
All the businesses The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 3 May around the world will be set a common behavioural goal to 2007 at Church House, Deans Yard, London SW1, details of encourage employees to act ethically, fairly and with an open which can be found in the Notice of AGM 2007. mind to all those they come into contact with.
Purchase of own shares Communication with employees has an important focus through At the AGM 2006, shareholders passed a special resolution team briefings when employees can participate and give their renewing the authority to the Company, in accordance with the views on any aspect of the Groups business.
The Chief Executive Articles of Association, to purchase its own ordinary shares in Officer also issues online updates to employees through the the market.
The Groups annual and interim results announcements are presented at the subsequent team briefings No ordinary shares have been purchased in the market, nor has and employees are given the opportunity to comment on the any contract been made to purchase ordinary shares under the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
previous or existing authorities from 1 January 2006 to the date The Groups global intranet is an immediate source of information of this report.
The directors are seeking to renew the authority at and knowledge.
The in-house employee magazine, at rexam, the AGM 2007.
Further details can be found in the Notice of is published in fifteen languages for worldwide distribution.
The Rexam European Forum REF is a joint employee representative Share purchase authorities and management body created for the exchange of information AGM 2007 AGM 2006 and dialogue concerning issues which may impact Rexams Proposed number Number employees within the European Economic Area.
The REF holds an 10% of issued ordinary annual meeting attended by the Chief Executive Officer and other share capital 58.3m 55.6m senior management.
A smaller coordinating committee drawn from within the REF exists to discuss organisational issues as well Directors statement as any exceptional business issues which may arise and which Each person who is a director of the Company at the date of may have an impact on Rexams European employees.
approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Company has well established employee share schemes to information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and promote share ownership, as described in the Remuneration Report.
each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Competitive retirement and benefit packages are offered and, taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant subject to the culture, market practices and regulations in the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is countries where we carry out our business, benefits may be aware of that information.
provided in whole or in part by the government, private or supplementary Rexam sponsored programmes.
Financial details Auditor of the Groups worldwide retirement arrangements can be found In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, in the Business Review and note 25 to the consolidated financial a resolution for the re-appointment of  LLP statements.
will be proposed at the AGM 2007.
On behalf of the Board David Gibson Company Secretary 20 February 2007 43 Corporate Governance Report Compliance Schedule of matters reserved for the Board The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 the Code All Board appointments and removals contains main principles, supporting principles and provisions The appointment and removal of principal advisers and concerning corporate governance.
This report, together with the external auditors Directors Report and the Remuneration Report, provides a Changes to the Groups management and control structure summary of the Groups procedures for applying the main and Matters relating to the Companys share listing supporting principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
The Company is committed to high The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal of standards of corporate governance.
The Groups governance businesses policies are monitored by the Board and kept under constant High level financial decisions review and, in doing so, the Board has considered, in advance All capital expenditure projects over 10m or any capital of the commencement date, the principles and provisions in the expenditure project which, regardless of the amount, does not revised Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting meet the Groups financial criteria Council in June 2006.
Further details on internal control are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 the Company has complied with all of the provisions of the Code with the exception There were ten Board meetings during 2006.
All directors were of a short period in 2006 when the Company did not comply present at each meeting with the exception of the meeting in April with the provisions on Board balance, as explained under the when Noreen Doyle was unable to attend, the meeting in May section Board balance and independence in this report.
when Carl Symon was unable to attend and the meeting in September when Michael Buzzacott was unable to attend.
Where Directors a member of the Board cannot be present at a meeting, he or she receives a full copy of the agenda and the accompanying papers The Board in advance of such meeting and is given the opportunity to The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership comment on the matters to be discussed.
and to develop a coherent long term strategy for the Group.
Its other roles are to supervise the management, to maintain control The names of the members of the Board committees are set out over the Groups assets and to establish high ethical standards of on pages 52 and 53, together with details of their terms of behaviour, together with developing robust corporate governance reference and of the meetings held during the year.
The Board and risk management practices and procedures.
committees have authority to make decisions according to their terms of reference which can be found online at www.
The Board monitors the performance of management and aims to ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not During the year Rolf Brjesson met with the non executive directors only in the long term interest of shareholders but also meet the three times to discuss Board related issues on a less formal basis.
needs of Rexams customers, employees, suppliers and the local The Chief Executive was present at two of the meetings.
Their communities in which Rexam operates.
discussions covered areas including Group performance, strategy and succession planning.
Matters referred to the Board are considered by the Board as a whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The Groups global insurance programme is reviewed annually There are well documented procedures and controls, including and appropriate insurance cover has been obtained to protect a formal schedule of matters that require the Boards specific the directors and senior management in the event of a claim approval and is reviewed annually.
This provides the framework being brought against any of them in their capacity as directors for the decisions to be taken by the Board and those which can or officers of the Company or its subsidiaries.
be delegated to committees of the Board.
44 Corporate Governance Report Chairman and Chief Executive officer The Chairman, Rolf Brjesson, was not considered to be Rexam has a non executive Chairman and a Chief Executive independent as at the date of his appointment on 25 May 2004 Officer.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the as he had previously been Chief Executive of the Company.
The positions, with the Chairman responsible for the running of Companys major institutional shareholders continue to be fully the Board and the Chief Executive Officer responsible for the supportive of his appointment as Chairman.
executive management of the Company and the running of the Groups business.
Board Balance at 31 December 2006 and at date of this report Chairman with no executive responsibilities 1 The written job specifications for the roles of Chairman, Chief Executive directors 4 Executive Officer as well as that of the senior independent Non executive directors 6 director, are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
The Board works as a team, but independence of thought and Rolf Brjesson spends, on average, two days per week in his approach is encouraged.
Directors of different nationalities with role as Chairman.
He is also Chairman of Ahlsell AB, and a non international business backgrounds have been appointed as a executive director of Avery Dennison Corporation and Svenska majority of Rexams activities are overseas.
Influence is balanced Cellulosa AB.
The Board considers that his external directorships within the Board by virtue of the strong independent elements of a do not make conflicting demands on his time as Chairman.
non executive senior independent director and a further five non executive directors whose skills and wide international business As disclosed in the 2005 Report, Carl Symon became senior experience are invaluable in constructively challenging and independent director when Christopher Clark retired on developing the Groups strategy and direction.
Carl Symon is available to talk to shareholders aware of the other commitments of the non executive directors if they have any issues or concerns.
He is Chairman of HMV and considers that these commitments do not conflict with their Group plc and the BT Group Equality of Access Board, and a non duties as directors of the Company.
executive director of BT Group plc and Rolls-Royce Group plc.
The Board considers that his external directorships do not make David Tucker was appointed as a non executive director on conflicting demands on his time as senior independent director.
Following a performance evaluation and rigorous review in 2005, the Board strongly believed that David remained Lars Emilson retired as Chief Executive and an executive director independent and that his extensive knowledge of institutional of the Company on 1 February 2007.
He was succeeded by shareholder and governance related matters, and his insight into Leslie Van fide Walle who was appointed as an executive director the strategic aims of the Company, enabled him to continue to on 17 January 2007 and became Chief Executive Officer on provide an important and valued contribution to the Board.
Leslie Van fide Walles career summary can Board recommended and shareholders approved at the Annual be found on page 39 and the Board believes that his global General Meeting AGM 2006 that David be re-elected as a non experience in beverage and food retail along with his international executive director for a further one year term.
David will retire business to business background will be of great value to continue from office at the AGM 2007.
Rexams strategy for growth and leadership in its chosen markets.
Leslie Van fide Walle is a non executive director of Aegis Group A biography of each member of the Board and details of their plc and the Board believes that this external directorship does not other directorships are given on page 39. make conflicting demands on his time as Chief Executive Officer.
The Board evaluates the membership of its individual Board Board balance and independence committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that the principal Following the retirement of Christopher Clark on 8 February committees have different non executive directors as chairman.
2006 the number of non executive directors, excluding the Chairman, fell to three until the appointment of Noreen Doyle as Appointments to the Board a non executive director on 22 March 2006.
The Company did Recommendations for appointments to the Board are the not have a balance of independent non executive directors on the responsibility of the Nomination Committee.
The majority of Board for the period 8 February to 22 March 2006 and therefore the members of the Committee are independent non executive did not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Code during that directors.
The Committee regularly reviews and considers the period.
At all other times during the year and at the date of this ongoing membership of the Board, sets job descriptions and report the Board balance has been in compliance with the Code.
objective criteria for Board and senior executive appointments and succession planning.
The terms of reference set out more fully the responsibilities of this Committee and can be found online at www.
45 Corporate Governance Report All new Board appointments are conducted through a formal, responsibilities of a director.
The Company Secretary gives rigorous and transparent procedure between the Group Director guidance on Board procedures and corporate governance.
All Human Resources, the Nomination Committee and the Board.
directors receive ongoing training and members of the Committees The Committee has responsibility for succession planning and, in receive specific updates in matters that are relevant to their role.
doing so, identifies through the management review process any For example, members of the Audit Committee have received internal people whose skills, experience and contribution to the information on the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Group would potentially benefit the Board.
reviews membership of the Board on a regular basis and will discuss possible internal candidates and Board positions with the The Chairman arranges for the directors to visit at least one of the Group Director Human Resources.
If it is decided that an internal Groups business locations and customer sites each year to ensure rather than an external appointment would be in the best interests that their technical knowledge, skills and familiarity with the of the Board, the Committee meets with the prospective candidates Groups operations are updated and maintained.
During 2006, who are then considered and, if appropriate, one is recommended the Board visited the Beverage Can business in Recife, Brazil and to the full Board for approval.
the Make Up business in Jundiai, Brazil.
Whilst in Brazil, the Board were invited to visit a Carrefour hypermarket and a Coca-Cola For the appointment of external candidates to the Board, the bottling plant.
The Board also visited the Plastic Packaging Home Nomination Committee instructs and works alongside recruitment & Personal Care businesses in the US in Chicago, Illinois and consultants to evaluate and meet prospective candidates who are Hot Springs, Arkansas.
Additionally, each member of the Group then considered and, if appropriate, are recommended to the full Management Committee GMC with responsibility for the Groups Board for approval.
This procedure was followed in 2006 leading businesses makes a presentation at a Board meeting about their to the appointment of Leslie Van fide Walle as Chief Executive businesses, suppliers, customers, markets and strategy.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is During 2006, a similar process was followed in conjunction responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
This with an independent search consultancy to identify potential non includes taking minutes of the Board meetings and the recording executive directors.
The Committee recommended and the Board of any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed approved the appointments of Noreen Doyle, Jean-Pierre Rodier actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a director in a and Wolfgang Meusburger as non executive directors.
He is also secretary to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Under the direction of the Chairman, Information and professional development he is responsible for the communication of relevant information For each scheduled Board meeting the Chairman and the Company between the Board, the GMC and senior management.
The Secretary ensure that, during the week before the meeting, the Company Secretary is available to give ongoing advice to all directors receive a copy of the agenda for the meeting, Group and directors on Board procedures, corporate governance and business financial and operating information to ensure that they regulatory compliance.
Should a director reasonably request are properly apprised of the Groups current performance and independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such information on any other matter which is to be referred to the advice is made available to him at the Companys expense.
The directors also have access to the Company Secretary for any further information they require.
In the Performance evaluation months where there is no scheduled Board meeting, the directors During 2006 the Board experienced various changes following receive the prior month and cumulative Group and business the retirement and appointment of non executive directors and the financial and operating information.
If there is any urgent business announcement of a successor to Lars Emilson as the new Chief to be considered in these months and the subject of the business Executive Officer.
The Chairman of the Board undertook a can be communicated by a written paper, the Board may be performance evaluation of the Board and its members during asked to give their approval by means of a written resolution.
2006 and, as part of the evaluation, the directors completed evaluation forms on the basis shown below.
All newly appointed directors participate in an extensive internal induction programme that introduces the director to the Group Senior Non Executive independent executive and includes visiting various Group businesses.
Newly appointed Evaluators Chairman directors director directors directors who have not previously held a directorship in a UK Evaluating listed company are also given external training which focuses Chairman on their role on the Board.
They attend an Institute of Directors Board course, entitled Understanding the Board which covers the role Board committees and effectiveness of a director, the role of the Board and the legal 46 Corporate Governance Report The Chairman carried out a review of the completed evaluation Annual General Meeting 2007 forms and reported the results of the evaluation process to the Leslie Van fide Walle Chief Executive Officer Election Board.
The Board discussed the results and confirmed their Michael Buzzacott Non executive director Re-election continuing satisfaction with the effectiveness of the directors contribution and commitment, and of the Board and Board Wolfgang Meusburger Non executive director Election Committees as a whole.
It was agreed that the evaluation Jean-Pierre Rodier Non executive director Election process had been both constructive and informative and that Carl Symon Non executive director Re-election positive progress had been made on many of the issues raised in the 2005 evaluation process.
Whilst the most recent review did The directors being recommended for election at the AGM 2007 not identify any significant issues of concern, some areas for all have invaluable knowledge and experience to influence the development and improvement were raised: including the need Groups strategy for growth and leadership in the consumer for more time to be spent on in depth strategic debate, greater packaging industry.
Leslie Van fide Walle is being proposed for focus on succession planning and talent management and more election as he has experience in beverage and food retail along external input on specific issues requiring more than an internal with an international business to business background.
With regard to the Board Committees, it was agreed Meusburger has many years experience in the fast moving that now that the number of independent non executive directors consumer goods industry and a good understanding of how to has risen to six it is no longer necessary to have all non executive develop businesses.
Jean-Pierre Rodier has international business directors on all Committees.
The directors assessment of the experience and an extensive knowledge of the packaging and Chairmans leadership of the Board continues to be positive.
It was agreed that a full performance evaluation of the Board Michael Buzzacott and Carl Symon are being recommended for would continue to be conducted annually and that the 2007 re-election at the AGM 2007 following a performance evaluation.
review would be the first opportunity to include all of the newly Both directors bring to the Board a respected knowledge of the appointed directors who will by then have had an opportunity manufacturing and service industries in which they participate to form views as to the performance of the Board and Board and they continue to make a valuable contribution to the Rexam Committees.
It was agreed that Carl Symon, in his capacity as Board.
senior independent director, would carry out a fuller evaluation of directors views of the Chairman during the 2007 Board Remuneration evaluation process.
Level and make up of directors remuneration The following sections on directors remuneration should be read Election and re-election of directors in conjunction with the Remuneration Report.
Article 57 of the Companys Articles of Association states that a director should be proposed for election if he or she has been The Board recognises the importance of executive directors appointed to the Board since the date of the last AGM, or remuneration not only to motivate and retain the individuals proposed for re-election if he or she has held office for more than concerned, but also in the wider context both within the Group 30 months at the date of the notice convening the next AGM.
and in comparable geographic and business areas.
In addition The Board ensures that each executive and non executive to basic salary, benefits in kind and retirement benefits, executive director be required to submit himself or herself for re-election by directors remuneration is composed of both short term and long shareholders at least every three years.
term elements that are related to Group and business performance.
There is also a requirement in accordance with their contract of Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of employment for executive directors to build up shareholdings in appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
the Company following the exercise of share options to encourage On appointment, an undertaking is requested from the non them to align with the interests of shareholders.
executive director to ensure that he has sufficient time to fulfil his role on the Board.
The continued appointment of any non executive Fees for non executive directors are determined having regard director who has served on the Board for a period in excess of to current market practice and the time spent on Rexams behalf.
nine years will be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
They are not required to hold shares in the Company and do not participate in any incentive or share option schemes.
Information The Board will only recommend to shareholders that executive and as to directors basic salary, benefits in kind, short and long term non executive directors be proposed for election or re-election at incentive arrangements and retirement benefits is disclosed in the an AGM, in accordance with the Articles of Association, after Remuneration Report.
evaluating the performance of the individual director.
At the AGM 2007, the following directors are being recommended by the Board and will be proposed for election or re-election.
47 Corporate Governance Report Policy for directors remuneration During 2006 the process was further refined with the introduction The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by the senior of risk register forms to give more detailed reporting of the independent director, consists of independent non executive methodology used to quantify the risks identified, trend analysis directors and determines remuneration levels and specific packages and the use of key performance indicators KPIs to help measure appropriate for each executive director, taking into account the and assess the benefits of mitigation steps taken to manage the risks.
No director is permitted to be present when his own remuneration is being discussed, nor to vote ARC meetings also include the results of internal audit activity on his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee considers covering the financial controls and risks as well as the physical that the procedures in place provide a level of remuneration for risks health, safety and environment of all operations in the Group.
the directors which is both appropriate for the individuals concerned The results of this process are reported to the Audit Committee by and in the best interest of shareholders.
the Finance Director and the head of Internal Audit providing an opportunity for that Committee to discuss and analyse the risks The remuneration of the Chairman and senior independent director reported.
is determined by the Remuneration Committee the Chairman or senior independent director absenting himself from the discussions In particular, and in accordance with the Turnbull Report guidance and vote and non executive directors fees are recommended referred to below, the ARC was advised of the discovery of a leak by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and approved by in the underground system for a solvent used for cleaning metal the Board.
parts at the Rexam plant in Annecy, France.
Following a detailed assessment of the situation remedial action has been taken as Accountability and audit detailed in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review.
Through the reporting of the Rexam Audit System the Financial reporting circumstances which gave rise to this incident have been examined.
The intention of the Annual Report and the Interim Report is to A process has been put in place for the regular examination of provide a clear assessment of the performance and prospects pipework used for solvents to reduce the likelihood of this type of of Rexam.
The Company prepares a full Annual Report and an leak happening again and all incidents of this nature are to be Annual Review.
The Annual Review qualifies as a Summary reported fully at the earliest opportunity so that remedial action Financial Statement and condenses the information contained can be taken without delay.
Shareholders who have not requested the Annual Report will receive the Annual Review.
In the Annual Further details of the main risks encountered by the Group are Report, following their annual audit, the Companys auditor included in the Business Review.
includes an independent report to members.
The Interim Report includes a review report to the Company prepared by the All directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining an Companys auditor.
effective system of internal control.
Whilst all elements of risk can not be eliminated, the system aims to identify, assess, prioritise For 2006 the Annual Report contains a Business Review which and, where possible, mitigate the Groups risks.
Although no aims to summarise the Groups business strategy, objectives, system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against strategic risks and financial and non financial performance.
material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed The Business Review can be found on pages 12 to 37. to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly Internal control and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or There is an ongoing process which has been in place during detected within a timely period.
2006 and up to the date of this report for identifying, evaluating, managing, monitoring and reporting the risks faced by the Group.
The Board, in reliance upon the detailed work performed by This formal process, managed through the use of Audit and Risk the Audit Committee, confirms that it carried out a review of the Committee ARC meetings, is the responsibility of all of the effectiveness of the system of internal control operated within the Groups businesses and is overseen by the Finance Director and Group during 2006 in accordance with the requirements of the head of Internal Audit.
ARC meetings are held with management Code and the revised guidance issued in October 2005 Internal to review the results of their internal risk assessments and such Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the meetings include the continuing evaluation and development of the Turnbull Report.
The Board will continue to carry out such reviews process for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of on an annual basis.
This review covers all controls, namely internal control which includes all aspects relating to financial, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
environmental, social and governance related matters.
In order to discharge its responsibilities in this regard the Board has established and regularly reviews the procedures necessary to implement the internal control requirements of the Code.
48 Corporate Governance Report The framework which the Board has established with a view to Audit Committee and Auditor providing effective internal control is supported by the following The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee for key areas: reviewing an effective system of internal control and compliance, accurate external financial reporting, fulfilling its obligations under law and the Code, and managing the relationship with the Financial reporting Companys external auditor.
The Committee members comprise The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial independent non executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that results to the Board.
An annual budget and strategic review are David Tucker, chairman of the Committee, who is a chartered prepared for each business and are consolidated for review by accountant with extensive financial experience through his past the Board before being formally adopted.
During the year, and present involvement with various listed companies and monthly management accounts, including cash flow and capital pension trustee bodies, and Michael Buzzacott, a qualified expenditure reporting, are prepared with a comparison against accountant who has held a number of senior financial positions in budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in the light of this BP p. l. c. have recent and relevant financial experience to enable comparison and also reviewed by the Board.
them to discharge fully the duties of the Committee.
Michael Buzzacott will succeed David Tucker as Chairman of the Audit Responsibility Committee on 3 May 2007.
Should it be requested, the There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and levels of Committee has access to independent expert advice at the authority in operation throughout the Group, with specific Companys expense.
matters reserved for the Board.
Businesses are decentralised with operating autonomy and financial responsibility delegated The Committee approves the appointment of the head of Internal to corporate and local management to the extent that they have Audit.
The annual programme of internal audit assignments is approval to operate within acceptable levels of authority and reviewed and approved by the Committee which also ensures risk.
that the involvement of the internal and external auditors is co-ordinated.
Procedures and controls There are formal written Group financial procedures and In 2006 the internal audit function and its performance, controls in operation, including specific procedures for treasury effectiveness and relationship with the Companys external auditor matters and the approval of significant contracts.
Corporate and was assessed by the Committee and a report was made to the local management are required to complete year end and half Board.
This assessment included both an internal survey of the year representation letters formally confirming that their businesses internal audits performance and an external review by KPMG LLP comply with the Groups financial reporting policies and other of a number of internal audit reviews carried out at significant Group policies and procedures.
Internal audit During 2006, the Committee met independently with the Companys An internal audit function monitors the accounting and financial external auditor to discuss informally matters of interest.
The risks faced throughout the Group and the control systems in Chairman of the Committee had meetings with the head of Internal operation to manage these.
The findings are reported to the Audit without any other member of management being present.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are reviewed Risk management annually, set out more fully the responsibilities of the Committee An internal risk management function together with operational and can be found online at www.
The performance management are responsible for monitoring the processes within and effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed as part of the the Group which identify, evaluate and manage the significant main performance appraisal of the Board and all its Committees.
health, safety and environmental risks faced by Group businesses.
All businesses have introduced an externally verified system of The Committee meets at least four times a year with representatives auditing and assessing the ability of their operations to identify, of the Companys external auditor.
At the request of the measure, reduce, control and review these physical risks.
The Committees Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Finance results of these audits are reported upon and reviewed by local Director and head of Internal Audit attend for part of each management, corporate management and the Audit Committee meeting.
The first meeting within the annual audit cycle is to in order to ensure that appropriate action plans are developed consider the nature and scope of the audit and to consider any and implemented.
additional special reviews that may be necessary.
Further meetings are held prior to the approval of the interim results and the final results to consider the annual audit, any special reviews undertaken, the business risks facing the Company and findings from the ARC meetings.
49 Corporate Governance Report The Committee is responsible for reviewing in detail the Annual Shareholder relations Report and Interim Report and all other published financial information for statutory and regulatory compliance with a view Dialogue with private and institutional shareholders to their recommendation and submission to the Board.
The The Board believes that good communication with shareholders Committee reports its findings on the audit process and on the is a priority.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive Officer wider aspects of internal control to the Board.
Additionally, the and Finance Director to meet with the Companys investors in the director of physical risk management and head of Internal Audit UK, US and Europe and presentations are made on the operating meet with the Committee to review and discuss the risk management and financial performance of the Group, including corporate policy and the commercial, physical and financial control risks governance related matters, and its longer term strategy.
Roadshows faced by the Group.
are held in the UK, US and Europe immediately after the announcement of the final and interim results.
If it is not possible The Committee has primary responsibility and advises the Board to arrange face to face meetings, meetings are held by telephone on the appointment, re-appointment and the remuneration of the conference.
The slide presentations made to representatives of the Companys external auditor.
 LLP PwC investment community following the announcement of the final has been the Companys external auditor since 2003.
During and interim results are available online at www.
com, as is 2006, PwC asked key people in the businesses and at corporate a webcast of the related results presentation.
level to assess PwC's ongoing relationship with the Company by completing an online survey.
All comments that raised any issues The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the were followed up by PwC through a person independent of the views of institutional shareholders.
A report on investor views audit function and the findings were reported back to the and comments about the Company is prepared by a third party Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the researcher, normally from the Companys brokers, after investor Companys external auditor and has recommended to the Board meetings and a summary report is presented to the Board for that a resolution to re-appoint PwC be proposed at the AGM information.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditor The Chairman and senior independent director are available to and the rotation of the audit partners from time to time.
meet with institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters that such shareholders believe should be brought to their The policy on the provision of non audit services by the Companys attention.
The non executive directors meet with shareholders at external auditor determines the procedures for the pre-approval of the AGM and may attend analyst presentations made by the such services and the fees paid for those services.
The scope and Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director following the final extent of non audit work undertaken by the Companys external and interim results announcements.
On the appointment of a new auditor is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires non executive director, institutional shareholders may request an prior approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision opportunity to meet with the new non executive director.
of the non audit services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
The Companys external auditor is prohibited from The Board fully supports the principle of the Code which seeks providing services to the Company that would be considered to to encourage more active interest and contribution from jeopardise their independence such as financial systems design institutional shareholders.
and implementation, actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing services and investment services.
The Committee also reviews the Companys external auditors reports on accounting and control matters, the Companys statement on internal control systems and, if requested to do so, the annual financial statements of the relevant Group pension funds.
50 Corporate Governance Report Annual General Meeting Historically, and underpinning its approach to CR, Rexam has The principal communication with private shareholders is through a longstanding set of environmental management programmes the Annual Review, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the and policies in place and is committed to the protection of the AGM which is held at a central London location.
The notice of the environment and the minimisation of the environmental impact AGM and any related papers are posted to shareholders with the of its operations and products.
Additionally, the social impacts Annual Review or, if requested, the Annual Report at least twenty of its business on employees, surrounding communities, suppliers, working days before the date of the AGM to ensure that customers and stakeholders, and its responsibilities towards shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items society in general have the highest priority.
The continuing focus of business to be approved.
All shareholder documents can be by institutional investors, the Government, charitable institutions viewed online at www.
and the media on CR encompassing social, environmental and ethical issues is acknowledged by the Board.
A presentation is made at the AGM to facilitate greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity More specific details of the Groups initiatives and commitment to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board to CR can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the committee during the AGM and meet all the directors informally Business Review on pages 27 to 31 and in the CR section of the after the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item Rexam website, www.
of business and the for, against and vote withheld proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the Meeting are Code of employee and business conduct counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted A worldwide code of conduct, which applies to all the Companys on each resolution.
A summary of the number of proxy votes cast employees, has been agreed with the Board and provides a clear in respect of each resolution is available to shareholders at the statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted conclusion of the AGM and it is also published on the Companys by Rexams activities.
The code of conduct was communicated website.
Following the Annual General Meeting 2006, a throughout the Group during 2005 and continues to be summary of the questions and answers raised at the Meeting was communicated through the new starter induction process, as posted on the Companys website.
An announcement confirming part of the team briefings in the Groups businesses, and on whether each of the resolutions were passed at the AGM is made the Groups intranet and website.
The Board is kept informed through the London Stock Exchange.
regarding the maintenance of the code of conduct.
Financial and other information is available online in a Whistle blowing policy comprehensive Investors section at www.
Rexams whistle blowing policy is supported by an external confidential telephone helpline, available to all employees for the American Depository Receipts ADR programme submission of any concerns, including those of a financial nature.
The Companys ADR programme trades through Nasdaq.
Rexam is subject to minimum disclosure requirements as the The telephone helpline, known as Raise Your Concern, has been ADR programme has been in existence for numerous years and beneficial as an independent point of contact for employees and, is not required to file a 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange if requested, the anonymity of the employee is maintained.
During Commission SEC or to comply with other SEC reporting 2006, 34 concerns have been logged and investigated, raising requirements.
matters, in the majority of cases, related to company issues and practices concerning the Groups code of conduct, none of which Corporate responsibility have related to fraud.
During 2006 the Group reviewed its reporting of environmental, social and governance policies and performance and created Any concerns reported are investigated at the earliest opportunity a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility CR section on its by the head of Internal Audit, in conjunction with the Company website.
The website gives access to policy documents, case Secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective studies and facts and figures underlining Rexams involvement business.
and commitment in this area.
The Group has identified four main areas Environment, Our People, the Community and The head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee Governance as the basis of its CR programme going forward.
on the concerns raised and the action that has been taken.
This report forms part of the Committees annual evaluation and review of the whistle blowing policy.
