39 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Review Governance The Board is accountable to shareholders for the running of the Company and continues to aspire to high standards of corporate governance, believing that good decision-making is fundamental to the long-term success of the business.
Governance processes were reviewed in preparation for the Initial Public Offering by which the shares were listed, and the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, issued in July 2003 the Code have been applied from June 2005 onwards.
The Compliance Statement at the end of this review gives further detail on this point.
The Boards approach has been to be guided by the Code and ensure that the spirit of the Code is observed at the Board and within the Company.
The Board The Board takes responsibility for the overall direction of the RHM businesses and decision-making processes within the organisation.
It oversees and approves the RHM operating structure under which authority for decision-making is reserved or delegated, ensuring that decision-making is taken at the right level within the organisation, leaving day to day operations to the executive directors and senior management.
The Board has a schedule of matters formally reserved for its decision.
This includes the approval of overall Group strategy and financial policy, Board and committee memberships, acquisitions and disposals and major capital expenditure.
The operational running of the business is delegated to the executive directors and senior management.
Board composition The Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors, namely the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, and four non-executive directors, of whom three are independent for the purposes of the Code.
Roger Matthews is the senior independent non-executive director.
Richard Hanson, as a director of Doughty Hanson which holds a substantial interest in the shares of the Company, is not considered to be independent.
The Board contains a majority of non-executive directors, and half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered independent.
The Board has a range of backgrounds and experience, which it is believed are appropriate to a company of RHMs size and business.
Board committees The Board has delegated certain areas of responsibility to sub-committees, as recommended by the Code.
These are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
As stated above, these consist of a majority, or entirety, of independent non-executive directors.
Terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
These terms of reference are aimed at reflecting good practice, deemed appropriate for RHM.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees follow the guidance relating to such committees appended to the Code.
Jan du Plessis was appointed as Chairman following the advice of external consultants, under the direction of the executive directors, and subsequent appointments were made under the direction of the Chairman.
In February 2006, the Nominations Committee was formally established.
New appointments received an induction to the Board and the Company, including its business plans, senior management and operational site visits.
Operational overview A written statement of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed.
Broadly, the Chairman is responsible for the management of the Board and the good governance of the Group, whilst the Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Groups business and operations.
At Board meetings, performance is reviewed via standing reports from the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director as well as regular presentations from senior management.
Other business is brought to the Board for noting or decision-making as appropriate.
40 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Review Meetings The Board has met 10 times in the year.
Since listing, the Board has met eight times this year, with committee meetings as required.
The intention is that the Board will meet nine times a year going forward.
The following table sets out the number of meetings and attendance by each member.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total May 2005 April 2006 10 1 2 1 Jan du Plessis 10 10 1 1 Ian McMahon 10 10 Andrew Allner 10 10 Richard Hanson 5 10 1 Roger Matthews 8 8 1 1 2 2 1 1 Michael Baulk 5 8 1 1 1 2 1 1 Erhard Schoewel 5 8 1 1 2 2 1 1 Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held since appointment.
The sub-committees of the Board were established in February 2006.
Prior to that time, matters that would otherwise have been considered at sub-committees were reviewed by the Board.
Board papers are circulated in advance of meetings, so that directors may make informed decisions in respect of the business.
Directors are entitled to take independent legal advice at the expense of the Company, in furtherance of their duties, under the guidance of the Company Secretary.
Shareholder approval of directors In accordance with the principles of the Code, a third of the Board will retire each year and submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
Directors submit themselves for election at the first general meeting after their appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association, and if elected, serve for a term of 36 months, before offering themselves for re-election.
At the first Annual General Meeting since flotation, the following directors will be offering themselves for election: Roger Matthews Michael Baulk Erhard Schoewel Brian Buchan appointed after the year end Biographies of the directors in office at the year end are set out on page 30.
If re-elected, the Board has agreed that, to avoid all the independent non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election at the same time in three years time, directors may offer themselves for re-election earlier to ensure that there is suitable continuity of representation by staggering elections.
Board, Committee and Chairmans evaluations As the Board is newly constituted, it has been decided to undertake an evaluation of its performance, and of its Chairmans and its committees performance, once 12 months operation has been completed.
No evaluations have therefore been made in the current year.
The non-executive directors met without executives present on one occasion in the period.
Executive Committee The Board has formally delegated the day to day operational management of the business to the executive directors.
The Chief Executive chairs a committee the Executive Committee made up of the executive directors and certain members of the senior management team, including the Chief Operating Officers of the three business divisions and heads of certain functions.
The Executive Committee is also provided with reports from other management groups.
These groups are created where there is a need to consider matters in more detail with a view to recommending options for the Executive Committee to review.
The intention of these bodies is to assist in ensuring informed and balanced decision-making throughout the Group.
These groups are comprised of different managers, in order to review items such as investment proposals, risk management structures and processes, pensions and food issues.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee was established by the Board for the primary purpose of overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, internal financial control and risk management processes of the Group.
The Committee is chaired by Roger Matthews and its other members are Michael Baulk and Erhard Schoewel, all of whom are independent of the Company.
Roger Matthews has been identified by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience for the position of chairman.
41 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Review The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and internal control policies, and its procedures for the identification and assessment of risk, and reports on these to the Board.
It monitors the integrity of the Companys interim and annual financial statements, together with other financial information prepared for compliance purposes, prior to their submission to the Board, and ensures that such statements fully comply with all relevant legal, regulatory and accounting requirements.
It also has primary responsibility for the appointment of the external auditors and the subsequent scope of their engagement, as well as monitoring their independence and making recommendations as to their remuneration.
Any changes in accounting policy or practice would also fall to the Committee for review.
In executing its responsibilities, the Audit Committee will meet the auditors at least twice a year, once without the presence of executive management, and review the effectiveness of the audit.
The Audit Committee also considers any non-audit services provided by the auditors, in order to ensure their continuing independence and objectivity.
Considerable non-audit work has been carried out in the current year by  LLP with regard to the flotation in July 2005, as well as on a consulting project relating to the Group pension scheme.
These are detailed in the Notes to the Accounts.
The Audit Committee is of the opinion that the auditors were the appropriate advisers for this work, due to their prior knowledge of the Groups activities.
Going forward a policy has been approved by the Audit Committee to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Under this policy, the auditors are excluded from consideration for certain types of professional services that could lead to a potential conflict of interest.
It is expected that the amount of non-audit work will reduce significantly in the coming year.
The Company established whistle-blowing procedures for the treatment of complaints or anonymous submissions from employees regarding possible wrongdoing by the Company in financial or other matters, which have become part of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee since its establishment.
Any such submissions would be treated in confidence and investigated independently.
Since flotation, the Company established an internal audit function for the first time.
The function is co-sourced with Deloitte & Touche LLP and reports to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives regular updates on the work of the internal audit function and reviews and approves the planned scope of its work and budget.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to satisfy itself that this function is adequately resourced.
Internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
They also recognise, however, that such a system cannot eliminate risk, and as such can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the Group failing to meet its business objectives or suffering a material loss.
The Group maintains a comprehensive system of internal control, the principal components of which are: a clearly defined organisational and operating structure, which sets out reporting lines and levels of delegated authority within that structure: a comprehensive set of policies and guidance covering areas such as corporate governance, risk management, project management, management and financial accounting, human resources, the environment, treasury matters, procurement and food safety: a robust budgeting, planning and reporting process for all businesses, focused on the setting of appropriate objectives and targets and the monitoring of performance against those targets, including quarterly business reviews: and the use of self assessment to evaluate the design and operation of internal controls across the Group.
As part of the due diligence processes undertaken in connection with the flotation, the Group undertook a number of activities designed to strengthen and formalise the Groups system of internal control.
These activities were: the documentation and communication of the Groups principal operating, financial, risk management and governance policies.
This process produced the RHM Risk Management Framework that was adopted by the Board on 29 June 2005.
Responsibility for the maintenance of this framework lies with the Group HR Director, the Company Secretary and the Director of Financial Planning and Control: the expansion of the Groups risk management activities including the adoption of a common risk model, the formation of divisional and Group risk committees and the establishment of divisional and Group risk registers: and the establishment of an internal audit function to provide assurance activities linked to identified risks, and the approval of an internal audit plan for the first year to focus specifically on the review of the design and operation of basic financial controls.
The Board was satisfied at the time of the flotation that governance structures and the internal control framework were adequate to meet the requirements of the Code.
Examples of reports received and reviewed by the Board or the Audit Committee of an internal control nature in the year are: monthly reports covering the performance of each business against budget for the year ended 29 April 2006: a three year plan: a budget for the Group for the year: reports covering commodity and treasury risk management activities: 42 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Review a Group risk register: a review of all capital projects with an investment over specified values: a summary of the results of the Group-wide self assessment of internal controls, updated as at the year end: self-certification from divisional and Company Chief Operating Officers or business Managing Directors and divisional Finance Directors relating to the operation of an effective internal control environment in their divisions for the year ended 29 April 2006: updates from the external auditors: regular updates on the execution of the internal audit plan and various internal audit reports: and a review of the effectiveness of the whistle-blowing policy in place across the Group.
These reports are considered adequate to enable the Board to build up a cumulative assessment of the state of control in the Group and the effectiveness with which risk is being managed.
As a consequence, the Board has concluded that, in the year under review, the system of internal control has been reviewed in line with the guidance applicable for the year ended 29 April 2006.
Nature of the risks faced by the Group The nature of those risks has been categorised by the Company as falling within strategic, operational, financial and compliance areas.
Examples of these would be increases in raw material or other input prices, difficulty in selling specific products, credit risks on major counterparties, consistent change in regulation in our fields of operations, and where risks arising can impact on the reputation of the Group, its products and brands, or its managers.
The flotation prospectus laid out the main risks to RHM faced at that time, and the Board does not consider that they have changed materially since then.
Particularly highlighted were the following key risks: a dependency on certain major customers: a dependency on certain brands for large parts of its value: the need to improve performance in its branded cakes business: the need for a consistent pipeline of new product development: and the highly competitive nature of the UK food market.
The Company also drew attention to the risks associated with the RHM Pension Scheme, given its long history and the extent of its liabilities.
The risks highlighted included the fact that it is not fully funded, that the valuation is based on certain assumptions which may vary over time, and that the Pension Trustee has a material degree of control over the Scheme.
Compliance statement For the year under review, the directors consider that the Company complied with the provisions of the Code with the following exceptions: until February 2006, the Board had not appointed a senior non-executive director.
Roger Matthews now fulfils that role: the Board operated without sub-committees until February 2006: as stated above, the Board and its committees has not yet undertaken an evaluation process of its own performance and that of the Board chairman.
Shareholder communications The Board is committed to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with all of its major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of Investor Relations, with the support of the Chairman, maintain a programme of regular visits and presentations to major institutional shareholders.
These presentations are made available to all shareholders via the corporate website.
All directors are kept fully appraised of current investor and market commentator sentiment via regular Board updates, from the Companys broker and investor relations advisor.
Board members also receive copies of all material analyst reports published on the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting the Board will be available to meet as wide a range of shareholders as possible and for the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and receive questions from investors.
It is anticipated that all directors will attend the Annual General Meeting on 26 September 2006.
At the meeting in September, the Company will provide for the vote on each resolution to be by poll, using an electronic voting system, rather than by a show of hands.
This is in line with best practice in this area, and will make for greater transparency, allowing the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, including those cast by proxy.
The voting results will be announced via the Regulatory News Service on the same day.
