20 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Corporate governance report The revised Combined Code on corporate governance was published In doing so, the chief executives role includes, but is not restricted to, in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the 2003 FRC Code implementing Board decisions, delegating responsibility, and reporting following a review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive to the Board regarding the conduct, activities and performance of the directors by Sir Derek Higgs and a review of audit committees by Group.
The chief executive chairs the formal management meetings a group led by Sir Robert Smith.
with the operating divisions of the Groups business and sets policies and direction to maximise returns to shareholders.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to the All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct of Companys shareholders for corporate governance and this statement the Companys affairs.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring describes how the Company has applied the relevant principles of that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are discussed the 2003 FRC Code.
The Company complied throughout the year in detail and assessed critically to ensure they conform with the longwith the provisions of the 2003 FRC Code on corporate governance.
term interests of shareholders and are compatible with the interests of employees, customers and suppliers.
The Board has reserved The Board to itself those matters, which reinforce its control of the Company.
The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, the These include treasury policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment chief executive, the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and removal of directors or the company secretary, appointment and and A-Plant, the senior independent non-executive director and removal of the auditors and approval of the annual accounts.
Short biographies of the directors are given on pages 16 and 17.
Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the executive directors and the company secretary, to ensure the directors The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Board are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
The Board normally meets at least agendas and encourages its effectiveness by the provision of timely, six times a year and there is contact between meetings to advance the accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business Companys activities.
It is the Boards usual practice to meet at least to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success annually at the offices of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have of the business.
The chairman, assisted by other directors, reviews the access to the company secretary and are able to seek independent effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than annually and advice at the Companys expense.
he facilitates constructive relationships between the executive and nonexecutive directors through both formal and informal meetings.
The Boards terms of reference are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The chairman ensures that all directors are properly briefed to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual undertake an induction to all parts of the Groups business.
Additionally, General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter detailed management accounts are sent monthly to all Board members at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors are and, in advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject documentation in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
to re-election and the provision of the Companies Act relating to the removal of a director.
The chairman facilitates effective communication with shareholders through both the Annual General Meeting and by individual meetings In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Mr Stenham, with major shareholders to develop an understanding of the views of Mr Robson and Mr Miller will offer themselves for retirement and the investors in the business.
He also ensures that shareholders have re-election to the Board at the next Annual General Meeting.
access to other directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
Non-executive directors The Board considers that the Company is in compliance with the The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of independence provisions of the 2003 FRC Code.
the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Groups practice undertakes the leadership and responsibility for the direction and to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
Before management of the day-to-day business and conduct of the Group.
appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure the Board 21 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com that they can give the time commitment necessary to fulfil properly The Audit Committee reviews the nature of any non-audit work to be their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss undertaken by Deloitte & Touche LLP and the level of proposed fees to matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
The nonensure their independence is not impaired.
The principal non-audit fees for executives letters of appointment are available for inspection at the the year relate to their work in connection with last years share placing and Annual General Meeting.
open offer, to their reviews of the Groups quarterly results announcements and to their work on the Groups IFRS implementation project.
The Audit The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and Committee is satisfied that the nature of work undertaken and the level of when required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss and non-audit fees did not impair their independence.
appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the FRC Code, the The Audit Committees terms of reference are available for inspection non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive at the Annual General Meeting.
director, also meet annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise his performance.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprised throughout the year Mr Cole Performance evaluation chairman, Mr Etheridge and Mr Drabble.
The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the Board and its committees is evaluated, amongst other things, against their respective The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required but in any role profiles and terms of reference.
This evaluation was conducted by event holds a series of meetings during the year to set the compensation the Board as a whole in the context of a paper submitted by the company packages for the executive directors, to establish the terms and conditions secretary summarising the key highlights of the year.
The executive of the executive directors employment and to set remuneration policy directors are additionally evaluated against the agreed budget for the generally.
Mr Stenham and Mr Burnett normally attend the meetings of generation of revenue, profit and value to shareholders.
The Committee also engages remuneration consultants to advise it in its work as and when required.
Board committees Audit Committee None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is currently The Audit Committee comprised throughout the year Mr Etheridge or has been at any time one of the Companys executive directors or chairman, Mr Cole and Mr Iceton.
In accordance with the an employee.
None of the executive directors currently serves, or has recommendation of the Smith Committee, the Companys non-executive served, as a member of the Board of Directors of any other company, chairman, Mr Stenham, is not a member of the Audit Committee.
which has one or more of its executive directors serving on the By invitation, our finance director, Mr Robson, our director of financial Companys Board or Remuneration Committee.
reporting, Mr Pratt and other directors including the chairman normally attend the committees meetings, as do representatives of our internal The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available for and external auditors.
inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
As is required by its terms of reference, the Audit Committee meets Nomination Committee on at least four occasions each year to review the draft quarterly and The Nomination Committee comprised throughout the year Mr Stenham annual financial statements prior to their publication, to consider the chairman, Mr Burnett, Mr Cole, Mr Etheridge, Mr Lovegrove, Mr Iceton key accounting estimates and judgements contained therein and to and Mr Drabble.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required consider reports from both the internal and external auditors which to recommend proposed changes to the structure and composition of includes audit plans and the key findings of their work.
The Audit the Board of Directors.
The Nomination Committee met informally on a Committee also keeps the Groups accounting policies under review, number of occasions throughout the year, usually at the end of Board evaluates the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial meetings.
As there were no proposed changes to the composition of the reporting policies and is responsible for dealing with any matter brought Board of Directors, the Committee did not meet formally during the year.
to its attention by the auditors.
The Audit Committee also keeps under review the effectiveness of both internal and external audit as well as The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available for the independence of the external auditors including the type of, and inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
associated fees for, non-audit services.
22 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Corporate governance report continued Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held between 1 May 2005 and 30 April 2006 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held 8 5 4 0 Mr Stenham 8 n a n a Mr Burnett 8 n a n a Mr Robson 8 n a n a n a Mr Dhaiwal 8 n a n a n a Mr Miller 8 n a n a n a Mr Cole 8 5 4 Mr Etheridge 7 5 3 Mr Lovegrove 8 n a n a Mr Iceton 8 5 n a Mr Drabble 8 n a 4 Finance and Administration Committee matters have arisen since the last report was prepared which might The Finance and Administration Committee comprised Mr Stenham, indicate omissions or inadequacies in that assessment.
They also Mr Burnett and Mr Robson throughout the year and is chaired by consider whether, as a result of changes in either the internal or external Mr Burnett.
The Board of Directors has delegated authority to this environment, any new significant risks have arisen.
The executive committee to deal with routine financial and administrative matters directors reviewed the draft report for 2006, which was then presented between Board meetings.
The committee meets as necessary to to, discussed and approved by the Group Board on 21 June 2006. perform its role and has a quorum requirement of two members with certain matters requiring the presence of Mr Stenham, our Before producing the statement on internal control for the annual report non-executive chairman, including, for example, the approval of and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006, the Board reconsidered material announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
In particular, through the Audit Committee, it received reports from the Internal control operational audit teams and considered the status of implementation The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system of internal control improvement recommendations made by the of internal control and confirm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
Groups internal auditors and our external auditors.
The control system In doing so, the Group has taken note of the guidance for directors includes written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines on internal control, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the of accountability and delegation of authority and comprehensive Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
reporting and analysis against budgets and latest forecasts.
The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of Ashtead, and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has minor breakdowns in established control procedures can occur.
There been in place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
It is kept under are supporting policies and procedures for investigation and management regular review by the executive directors and is considered periodically of control breakdowns at any of the Groups profit centres or elsewhere.
by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Audit Committee also meets with the external auditors at least four times a year to discuss the results of their work.
The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is appropriately designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and of failure to achieve business objectives.
Any such control system, monitoring procedures include: however, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial against material misstatement or loss.
management information, including a monthly profit and loss account and selected balance sheet data for each profit centre: The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authority risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction with levels and proper segregation of accounting duties at the Groups the management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are accounting support centres: documented in an annual report.
The reviews consider whether any 23 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board including The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records income statements for the Group and each subsidiary, balance sheet which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and cash flow statement: position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the Board: irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the counts conducted at each profit centre by equipment type Companies Act 1985. independently checked on a sample basis by our operational auditors and external auditors: The maintenance and integrity of the Ashtead Group plc website is the detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does undertaken by internal audit specialists from a major international not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accounting firm: accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the comprehensive audits of all profit centres generally carried out on financial statements since they were first published.
average at least once per year by internal operational audit.
A summary of this work is provided annually to the Audit Committee: and Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of a review of arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries the directors have a reasonable Statement of directors responsibilities expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial the financial statements.
In forming this view the directors have reviewed Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial the Groups budgets and cash flow forecasts for a period of more than statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company 12 months from the date of the approval of these financial statements law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in and considered the sufficiency of the Groups banking facilities accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of described on pages 42 to 43 of the Business and Financial Review.
By order of the Board IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys Eric Watkins financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires Company Secretary the representation of the effects of transactions, other events and 27 June 2006 conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
