RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance Directors remuneration The Company listed its shares on the Ofcial List of the The principles and details of directors remuneration and London Stock Exchange on 15 March 2006 Listing.
In the contractual arrangements are contained in the Remuneration period leading up to Listing, the Board implemented a Report on pages 29 to 37. number of changes to its governance arrangements to give further assurance to shareholders on Listing that the Board Board and Committee membership and attendance was committed to the highest standards of corporate The Articles of Association include the requirement that governance.
In this section we set out how we have applied one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and in the principles and complied with the provisions of the accordance with the Combined Code all directors submit Combined Code of Corporate Governance published in July themselves for re-election every three years.
In addition all 2003 Combined Code in the period since Listing when the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Combined Code applied to 31 December 2006 and explain opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals the reason for one area of non-compliance.
of no more than three years.
In accordance with this policy, Stephen Shipperley The Board Non-executive Director, Ed Williams Group Managing In addition to the Executive Chairman Scott Forbes, the Director and Nick McKittrick Executive Director will Board has three Executive Directors Ed Williams, Group submit themselves for re-election at this years Annual Managing Director, Nick McKittrick and Graham Zacharias, General Meeting.
Jane Pridgeon will retire from the position three Independent Non-executive Directors Jonathan Agnew, as Non-executive Director after the close of the Annual who is the Senior Independent Director, Nigel Cooper and Judy General Meeting.
Vezmar and two Non-executive Directors whom the Board Harry Hill resigned from the Board on 12 December 2006 do not consider to be independent Stephen Shipperley and in connection with the proposed management buy-out of Jane Pridgeon.
The composition of the Board on Admission Countrywide plc by 3i and Countrywide plc management.
to the Stock Exchange and for the period under review was The membership of the Committees of the Board and therefore not in compliance with supporting principle A3.2 of the attendance at meetings for the period under review are set Combined Code in that at least half of the directors excluding out in the table below.
the chairman were not independent non-executive directors.
Remuneration AuditNomination The directors believe that the Board currently operates Board Committee Committee Committee effectively and that Jonathan Agnew, Nigel Cooper and Judy Total meetings Vezmar are fully independent of management and free from since Listing 73 5 3 any business or other relationship that could materially Scott Forbes 7 3 N A 3 interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement Jonathan Agnew 7 3 5 3 and advice to the Board.
Nigel Cooper 6 3 5 N A Graham Zacharias, Group Finance Director is also a Harry Hill 3 N A N A N A non-executive director of Umeco plc.
His remuneration Nick McKittrick 7 N A N A N A for that position is retained by him and is set out in the 1 Jane Pridgeon 7 N A N A N A Remuneration Report on page 32.
Neither the chairman 2 Stephen Shipperley 7 N A N A N A nor any of the other executive directors hold any other Judy Vezmar 5 3 5 3 non-executive directorships or commitments disclosable Ed Williams 7 N A N A N A under the Combined Code.
Graham Zacharias 7 N A N A N A Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 16 and 17.
1 Represented by Colin Kemp of Halifax Estate Agencies Limited at two meetings.
2 Represented by Adrian Gill of Connells Limited at two meetings.
22 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 In addition to the above meetings, the chairman conducted a Chairman and Group Managing Director formal meeting with the independent non-executive directors There are clear written guidelines to support the division of without the executive directors, Stephen Shipperley and responsibilities at the head of the Company with the roles Jane Pridgeon being present.
of the chairman and group managing director separately held.
The chairman is responsible for the effective conduct Operation of the Board of the Board, for communication with shareholders and for The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall ensuring that each director uses their skills and experience direction and control of the Company.
Its key task is to to the benefit of the Boards effective decision making.
approve strategy, ensuring the successful implementation With the assistance of the company secretary, the chairman of projects and proposals and monitor the operating monitors the information provided to the Board to ensure performance of the Company in pursuit of its objectives in that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
the interest of maximising long-term shareholder value.
The The group managing director has day-to-day executive Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters requiring responsibility for the running of the Company, leading the specic approval.
These include, amongst other things, the executive and operational teams in developing strategies approval of the annual business plan, capital structure, and delivering results against dened objectives to enable dividend policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and the Group to meet its objectives.
removal of ofcers of the Company, approval of the interim and annual results, shareholder communication and Board training responsibility for corporate governance and review of the A comprehensive induction programme on the responsibilities Companys risk and system of internal controls.
for directors and the rules governing listed companies was The Board receives board papers and agendas one given in the last year to all non-executive directors prior to week prior to the meeting to allow sufficient time for detailed Listing of the Company by external advisers and internal review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
The breadth of management, financial and any director has a concern about any aspect of the business listed company experience of the independent non-executive conducted at any Board meeting, the company secretary directors is described in the biographical details on pages shall discuss this with the director concerned and record 16 and 17, which demonstrates their prior knowledge and their concern or comments in the Board minutes.
The Board skills relevant to a listed company and appropriate to the also receives monthly management and financial reports on Companys requirements.
The initial training for the newly the operational and financial performance of the business appointed directors has therefore focused on the on-line setting out actual and forecast financial performance against property advertising industry, company operating approved budgets in addition to other key performance environment, financial performance of the Company since it indicators.
At least twice a year the group managing director was founded in 2000, strategic aims, and one-on-one presents a strategy plan to the Board for review and approval.
meetings with the existing directors and senior managers.
The Board has scheduled seven formal Board meetings The Company operates an open plan ofce environment for the forthcoming financial year although meetings can be which facilitates exposure to the day-to-day Company scheduled at short notice at the request of any director or operations at both locations and offers the on-going if required.
Meetings for the Board and its Committees opportunity to interact directly with all staff, contributing are held at both the London and Milton Keynes ofces.
In signicantly to the knowledge and training of the addition to formal Board meetings, there is regular, informal independent non-executive directors.
