846725 pp087 27 2 07 1:56 pm Page 87 Audit committee charter Scope and authority Recommend to the boards that the annual and interim financial The Company is required by the UK Listing Authority UKLA, the New statements and Form 20-F reviewed by the committee or the York Stock Exchange NYSE, and the Australian Stock Exchange ASX chairman representing the committee for this purpose be included in to establish an Audit committee.
Each of the UKLA, the NYSE and the the Groups annual report.
ASX also lay down rules and guidelines for the composition of the Review the regular reports prepared by the internal auditor including committee and the work to be undertaken by it.
These requirements, the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
where not self evident, have been incorporated into this Charter.
External auditors The primary function of the Audit committee is to assist the boards Review and recommend to the boards the external auditors to be of directors in fulfilling their responsibilities by reviewing: proposed to shareholders, following a commercial tender if deemed The financial information that will be provided to shareholders and the necessary.
public: Review with the external auditors the planned scope of their audit and The systems of internal controls that the boards and management subsequently their audit findings including any internal control have established: recommendations.
The Groups auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
Periodically consult with the external auditors out of the presence of In carrying out its responsibilities the committee has full authority to management about the quality of the Groups accounting principles, investigate all matters that fall within the terms of reference of this material judgments and any other matters that the committee deems Charter.
Accordingly, the committee may: appropriate.
Obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties Periodically review the performance of the external auditors and the at the cost of the Group: effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant Have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may professional and regulatory requirements.
reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
Review and approve the fees and other compensation to be paid to the external auditors.
Composition Review and approve any non audit work and related fees to be The Audit committee shall comprise three or more non executive carried out by the external auditors.
directors, all of whom shall be independent.
The chairman of the Audit Ensure that the external auditors submit a written statement outlining committee will be an independent director, who is not also the chairman all of its professional relationships with the Group including the of the boards.
The boards will determine each directors independence provision of services that may affect their objectivity or independence.
having regard to the Independence Policy adopted by the boards, which Review and discuss with the external auditors all significant includes consideration of any past and present relationships with the relationships they have with the company to determine their Group which, in the opinion of the boards, could influence the directors independence.
Internal auditor All members of the committee shall have a working knowledge of Review the qualifications, organisation, strategic focus and resourcing basic finance and accounting practices.
At least one member of the of internal audit.
committee will have accounting or related financial management Review and approve the internal audit plans.
expertise, as determined by the boards.
A quorum will comprise any two committee members.
Periodically consult privately with the internal auditor about any The committee may invite members of the management team to significant difficulties encountered including restrictions on scope of attend the meetings and to provide information as necessary.
work, access to required information or any other matters that the committee deems appropriate.
Meetings Risk management The committee shall meet not less than four times a year or more Review and evaluate the internal processes for determining and frequently as circumstances require.
Audit committee minutes will be managing key risk areas.
confirmed at the following meeting of the committee and tabled as soon Ensure the Company has an effective risk management system and as practicable at a meeting of the boards.
that macro risks are reported at least annually to the board.
The Companys senior financial management, external auditors and Require periodic reports from nominated senior managers: internal auditor shall be available to attend all meetings.
confirming the operation of the risk management system including As part of its responsibility to foster open communication, the advice that accountable management have confirmed the proper committee should meet with management, the external auditors and the operation of agreed risk mitigation strategies and controls, and internal auditor, at least annually, to discuss any matters that are best detailing material risks dealt with privately.
Address the effectiveness of the Companys internal control system with management and the internal and external auditors.
Responsibilities Evaluate the process the Company has in place for assessing and The boards and the external auditors are accountable to shareholders.
continuously improving internal controls, particularly those related to The Audit committee is accountable to the boards.
The internal auditor areas of material risk.
is accountable to the Audit committee and the finance director.
Other matters To fulfil its responsibilities the committee shall: The committee shall also perform any other activities consistent with this Charter Charter that the committee or boards deem appropriate.
This will Review and, if appropriate, update this Charter at least annually.
include but not be limited to: Financial Reporting and Internal Financial Controls Review of the Groups insurance cover.
Review with management and the external auditors the Groups Review the Groups tax planning and compliance.
financial statements, Form 20-F, stock exchange and media releases Review the Groups whistle-blowing procedures for financial reporting.
in respect of each half year and full year.
Review with management and the external auditors the accounting policies and practices adopted by the company and their compliance with accounting standards, stock exchange listing rules and relevant legislation.
Discuss with management and the external auditors managements choice of accounting principles and material judgments, including whether they are aggressive or conservative and whether they are common or minority practices.
Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 87 AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER 2006
