846725 pp082 pp086 27 2 07 1:54 pm Page 82 Corporate governance The directors of Rio Tinto believe that high standards of corporate consultants, to evaluate once again its effectiveness and that of the governance are central to business integrity and performance.
The board committees and individual directors.
following describes how this philosophy is applied in practice.
Each directors performance was appraised by the chairman and, in As Rio Tintos three main listings are in London, Melbourne and New a meeting chaired by the senior independent non executive director, the York, the directors have referred to The Combined Code on Corporate non executive directors assessed the chairmans performance, taking Governance, published by the UK Financial Reporting Council the into consideration the views of executive colleagues.
Code, the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate Governance The evaluation process takes place annually and aims to cover Council Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice board dynamics, board capability, board process, board structure, Recommendations the ASX Principles, and the New York Stock corporate governance, strategic clarity and alignment and the Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Standards the NYSE performance of individual directors.
The directors believe that, through Standards, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. this evaluation process, they comply with the requirements of Rio Tinto complied fully with the detailed provisions of Section 1 of Clause A.
6 of the Code, Principle 8 of the ASX Principles, and of the Code and the ASX Principles as detailed further below.
on compliance with the NYSE Standards is set out below.
Independence The board The tests of director independence in the jurisdictions where Rio Tinto is The Companies have common boards of directors which are collectively listed are not wholly consistent.
The board has, therefore, adopted a responsible for the success of the Group and accountable to formal policy for the determination of independence of directors.
The shareholders for the performance of the business.
Throughout this policy, which contains the materiality thresholds approved by the board, report, they are described as the board.
can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
Among the key criteria are The board currently consists of 14 directors: the chairman, three independence of management and the absence of any business executive directors and ten non executive directors.
The Nominations relationship which could materially interfere with the directors committee continually assesses the balance of executive and non independence of judgement and ability to provide a strong, valuable executive directors and the composition of the board in terms of the contribution to the boards deliberations or which could interfere with the skills and diversity required to ensure it remains relevant in the current directors ability to act in the best interest of the Group.
The skills, experience and expertise of each director in the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a together with their terms in office are shown in the biographical details company in which a director has declared an interest, these are on pages 62 and 63. reviewed for materiality to both the Group and the other party to the contract.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that the majority The role and responsibilities of the board of the non executive directors: Ashton Calvert, Sir David Clementi, The role of the board is to provide the Group with good governance and Vivienne Cox, Sir Rod Eddington, Michael Fitzpatrick, Richard strategic direction.
The board also reviews the Groups control and Goodmanson, Andrew Gould, Lord Kerr and Sir Richard Sykes accountability framework.
The directors have agreed a formal schedule are independent.
of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board, including The board is also satisfied that the strength and objectivity of strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
This is available on Sir Richard Sykes contribution to the board, as a non executive director Rio Tintos website at www.
since 1997, is fully consistent with that of an independent director and Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business lies with so continues to regard him as independent.
The board has asked him to the executive team, with the board agreeing annual performance targets stand for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meetings, to for management against the Groups financial plan.
The board is serve one more year, to support the board during a period of executive ultimately accountable to shareholders for the performance of the transition.
Sir Richard is the senior independent director and also chairs business.
To ensure an efficient process, the board meets regularly and, in David Mayhew, who is chairman of one of Rio Tinto plcs 2006, had eight scheduled and one unscheduled meeting.
Details of stockbrokers, is not considered independent in accordance with directors attendance at board and committee meetings are set out in the Code.
the Directors report on page 68.
Paul Skinner was, until his appointment as chairman in 2003, The board has regular scheduled discussions on aspects of the an independent non executive director in compliance with the Code.
Groups strategy, as well as two separate strategy review meetings, He also satisfies the tests for independence under the ASX Principles one half day and one two day meeting, both of which are dedicated to and the NYSE Standards.
in-depth discussions on Group strategy.
The directors biographies are set out on pages 62 and 63.
Directors receive timely, regular and necessary management and other information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
The board has Election and re-election agreed a procedure for the directors to have access to independent Directors are elected by shareholders at the first annual general professional advice at the Groups expense and to the advice and meetings after their appointment and, after that, offer themselves for services of both company secretaries.
re-election at least once every three years.
Non executive directors are In addition to these formal processes, directors are in regular normally expected to serve at least two terms of three years and, except communication with senior executives from the product groups, at both where special circumstances justify it, would not normally serve more formal and informal meetings, to ensure regular exchange of knowledge than three such terms.
and experience between management and non executive directors.
To continue building on the formal induction programmes, which all new Chairman and chief executive non executive directors undertake, they are encouraged to take every The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the opportunity to visit the Groups operating locations.
The full board also division of responsibilities has been formally approved by the board.
takes the opportunity to combine attendance at the annual general meeting in Australia and at the two day strategy review meeting with site Board committees visits when they are able to witness at first hand operations at individual There are four board committees, the Audit committee, Remuneration business units and to meet local staff.
committee, Nominations committee and the Committee on social and The chairman holds regular meetings with non executive directors environmental accountability.
Each committee plays a vital role in without the executive directors being present.
ensuring that good corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group.
Committee terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Board performance board and the committees to ensure they continue to be at the forefront In 2006 the board conducted a formal process, facilitated by external of best practice: and are posted on the Groups website.
Minutes of all 82 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2006 846725 pp082 pp086 24 2 07 9:54 am Page 83 committee meetings are circulated to the board, with oral reports at the Members of the committee, which is chaired by Richard Goodmanson, next board meeting.
None of the executive directors are members of are Ashton Calvert, Sir Rod Eddington and Lord Kerr.
Executive directors other directorships Audit committee Executive directors are likely to be invited to become non executive The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of directors of other companies.
For full details of the Group policy and accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation fees, see page 74. of public financial information, review with management of procedures relating to financial and capital expenditure controls, including internal Directors dealings in shares audit plans and reports, review with external auditors of the scope and Rio Tinto has a Group policy in place to govern the dealing in Rio Tinto results of their audit, the nomination of auditors for appointment by securities by directors and employees.
The policy, which prohibits shareholders, and the review of and recommendation to the board for dealings when in possession of price sensitive information and shortly approval of Rio Tintos risk management policy.
Its responsibilities also before a results announcement, can be viewed on the website.
include the review of corporate governance practices of Group sponsored pension funds.
The committee has a number of training Communication sessions which may cover new legislation and other relevant Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective communication with information.
The external auditors, the finance director, the Group shareholders and the general investment community.
To ensure controller and Group internal auditor all attend meetings.
A copy of the shareholders are kept informed in a timely manner, the Group has Audit committee charter is reproduced on page 87 and can be found on adopted Continuous disclosure standards, which are appended to the the website.
Corporate governance standards and posted on the website.
The Audit committee is chaired by Andrew Gould and its members In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto has a recently are Sir David Clementi, Vivienne Cox, Michael Fitzpatrick and Lord Kerr.
redesigned website featuring in-depth information on health, safety and David Mayhew attends in an advisory capacity.
the environment, as well as general investor information and Group policies.
Results presentations and investor seminars are made available Remuneration committee as they happen as well as in the form of an archive on the website.
The Remuneration committee is responsible for determining the policy The Group produces a range of informative publications, which are for executive remuneration and for the remuneration and benefits of available on request.
For further details, see our website.
individual executive directors and senior executives.
Full disclosure of all Full advantage is taken of the annual general meetings to inform elements of directors and relevant senior executives remuneration can shareholders of current developments and to give shareholders the be found in the Remuneration report on pages 69 to 81, together with opportunity to ask questions.
As recommended by the ASX Principles, details of the Groups remuneration policies.
The committee is chaired Rio Tinto Limiteds external auditor attends the annual general meeting by Sir Richard Sykes and its members are Sir David Clementi, Michael and is available to answer shareholder questions about the conduct of Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson and Andrew Gould.
the audit and the preparation and content of the auditors report.
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders are also able to submit written questions Nominations committee regarding the statutory audit report to the auditors via the Company.
Any The Nominations committee is chaired by the chairman of Rio Tinto, questions received and answers provided will be made available to the Paul Skinner.
The committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for members at the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting in April 2007. ensuring that a suitable process is in place to meet the recruitment Rio Tinto plcs auditors will as usual attend the annual general meeting in requirements of the board.
It reviews the mix, structure and experience London and will be available to respond to audit related shareholder of the board and the desired profiles of potential candidates for questions.
In consultation with external search consultants it The main channels of communication with the general investment oversees the review and recruitment process to fill vacancies as they community are through the chairman, chief executive and finance arise.
The recruitment process itself includes identification of suitable director, who conduct regular meetings with the Companies major candidates, followed by a formal assessment of each candidate, shareholders.
The senior independent director and other non executive leading to a final selection process.
Proposals for new members are directors are also available as appropriate.
submitted to the full board for approval.
On behalf of the board it The Group organises regular investor seminars which provide a two also reviews proposals for senior executive appointments and way communication with investors and analysts: the valuable feedback succession planning.
is communicated to the board.
An annual survey of major shareholders The committee further reviews the time required to be committed to opinion and perception of the Group is presented to the board by the Group business by non executive directors and assesses whether non Groups investor relations advisors.
executive directors are devoting sufficient time to carry out their duties.
In addition to Paul Skinner, the committee consists of Ashton Calvert, Statement of business practice Sir Rod Eddington, David Mayhew and Sir Richard Sykes.
The way we work provides the directors and all Group employees with a Under the Code, two members of the committee are not considered summary of the global policies and controls in place to help ensure that independent: Paul Skinner, following his appointment as chairman, high governance and business standards are communicated and and David Mayhew.
The Code specifically allows the chairman to maintained throughout the Group.
As stated above, the board takes Global policies are adopted by the board after wide consultation, the view that Sir Richard continues to be an independent director externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated and the composition of the committee is therefore compliant with to business units worldwide, together with mandatory standards and the Code.
guidance notes to support implementation.
Business units are required to devote the necessary effort by management to implement and report Committee on social and environmental accountability on these policies and standards.
The Committee on social and environmental accountability reviews the In 2006, Rio Tinto undertook a review of its global policies.
The effectiveness of management policies and procedures in place to deliver following policies are currently in place: access to land: communities: those standards in our statement of business practice, The way we corporate governance: employment: environment: human rights: work, which are not covered by the other board committees and, in information management: occupational health: political involvement: particular, those relating to health, safety, the environment and social safety and sustainable development.
To complete the suite of policies, issues.
The overall objective of the committee is to promote the the following are being revised: business integrity: information security development of high quality business practices throughout the Group management and information technology: internal controls and and to develop the necessary clear accountability on these practices.
Each of these policies is supported by Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2006 846725 pp082 pp086 27 2 07 5:10 pm Page 84 Corporate governance continued standards expanding on the minimum expectations on topics such as Going concern antitrust, continuous disclosure, compliance, and health, safety and the The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern environment.
Many of these standards are supplemented by guidance basis.
The directors report that they have satisfied themselves that the notes.
These policies and standards apply to all Rio Tinto managed Companies and the Group are a going concern since they have businesses.
adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the There is also a Groupwide whistle blowing programme called foreseeable future.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns, including any suspicion of a violation of the Groups financial reporting Boards statement on internal control and environmental procedures, through an independent third party and Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is to maximise long term without fear of recrimination.
A process has been established for the shareholder value through responsible and sustainable investment in investigation of any matters reported with clear lines of reporting and mining and related assets.
The directors recognise that creating responsibility in each Group business.
shareholder value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to its business partners controls and for reviewing its effectiveness in providing shareholders and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
with a return on their investments that is consistent with a responsible Rio Tintos report on social and environmental matters follows the assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Association of British operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
This report can be found on page 32.
Details of the Groups Due to the limitations inherent in any such system, this is designed to overall and individual businesses social and environmental performance manage rather than eliminate risk and to provide reasonable but not continue to be published on the website and in the Sustainable absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors have established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process Responsibilities of the directors was in place during 2006 and up to and including the date of approval The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each of the 2006 Annual report and financial statements.
The process is financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of reviewed annually by the directors and accords with the guidance set the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
and cash flows for that period.
This includes, in respect of Rio Tinto plc, Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive preparing financial statements in accordance with UK company law committee and the Disclosures and procedures committee regularly which give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs, and review information related to the Groups control framework.
This preparing a Remuneration report which includes the information information is presented to the Audit committee to enable its members required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the UK Companies Act 1985 and to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls.
In addition, the Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures.
board and its committees monitor the Groups significant risks on an Details of the directors responsibilities in respect of Rio Tinto Limited ongoing basis.
Assurance functions, including internal auditors and health, safety To ensure that these requirements are satisfied, the directors are and environmental auditors, perform reviews of control activities and responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls, provide regular written and oral reports to directors and management including disclosure controls and procedures for financial reporting committees.
The directors receive and review minutes of the meetings throughout the Group.
of each board committee, in addition to oral reports from the respective The directors consider that the 2006 Annual report and financial chairmen at the first board meeting following the relevant committee statements present a true and fair view and have been prepared in meeting.
accordance with applicable accounting standards, using the most Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be mitigated to appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos business and supported an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
The accounting transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have received a extent considered appropriate.
written statement from the chief executive and the finance director to Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and administrative this effect.
In accordance with ASX Principle 7.2, this written statement offices complete an internal control questionnaire that seeks to confirm relies on a sound system of risk management and internal compliance that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and and controls which implements the policies adopted by the board and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any confirms that the Groups risk management and internal compliance exist, and take prompt action as appropriate.
The results of this process and control systems are operating efficiently and effectively in all are reviewed by the executive committee and it is then presented to the material respects.
Audit committee and board as a further part of their review of the The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and Groups internal controls.
This process is continually reviewed and other members of staff who are required to exercise judgement in the strengthened as appropriate.
course of the preparation of the financial statements are required to The Disclosure and procedures committee is tasked with reviewing conduct themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the adequacy and effectiveness of Group controls and procedures over the ethical standards of their profession and or business.
the public disclosure of financial and related information.
The committee The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting has been presenting the results of this process to the directors since its records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and the establishment in 2002 and will continue to do so.
They have a general responsibility for The Group has material investments in a number of jointly controlled taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other control, it cannot guarantee that local management of mining and irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that related assets will comply with Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
appropriate systems are in place to maintain and preserve the integrity Accordingly, the review of their internal controls is less comprehensive of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation than that of the Groups managed operations.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from current and future legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the Boards statement on disclosure controls and procedures auditors does not involve consideration of such developments and, In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures of accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes, each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, the common management should any be made, to the financial statements since they were initially of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, including their respective available on the website.
common chief executive and finance director, recognised that any 84 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2006 846725 pp082 pp086 24 2 07 9:54 am Page 85 controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, for its approval.
The Audit committee may impose a US dollar limit on can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any non objectives, and the management of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto audit service provided by the Groups principal auditors, where the Limited necessarily was required to apply its judgement in evaluating the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Because Groups normal tender procedures.
However, in exceptional of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls circumstances the finance director is authorised to engage the Groups can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of principal auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have the fees are expected to exceed US$250,000 then the chairman of the been detected.
Audit committee must approve the engagement.
The common management of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto The Audit committee has adopted policies for the pre-approval of Limited, with the participation of their common chief executive and permitted services provided by the Groups principal auditors.
These finance director, have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and are regularly reviewed by the committee.
Engagements for services operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the period provided by the Groups principal auditors since the adoption of these covered by the 2006 Annual report and financial statements.
Based on policies were either within the pre-approval policies or approved by the that evaluation, the chief executive and finance director of each of Audit committee.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable Audit committee assurance level.
The Audit committee meets the membership requirements of the Code, There were no significant changes in the internal controls or in other the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
The Group also meets the factors that could significantly affect internal controls of each of Rio Tinto composition, operation and responsibility requirements in respect of plc and Rio Tinto Limited subsequent to the date of their most recent audit committees mandated by the ASX.
The Audit committee is evaluation.
governed by a written charter approved by the board, which the Audit committee reviews and reassesses each year for adequacy.
A copy of New York Stock Exchange this charter is reproduced on page 87.
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed The Audit committee comprises the five members set out below.
on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any Michael Fitzpatrick became a member of the committee with effect from significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ June 2006.
The members of the committee are independent and are from the NYSE standards.
free of any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that carrying out their responsibilities.
David Mayhew attends the meetings in its practices are broadly consistent with them, with one exception.
NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of Report of the Audit committee independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in The Audit committee met seven times in 2006.
It monitors addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, developments in corporate governance in the UK, Australia and the US, develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance to ensure the Group continues to apply high and appropriate standards.
principles applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations The charter, reproduced on page 87, is subject to regular discussion committee, information about which is set out on page 83.
committee does not develop corporate governance principles for the There is in place a set of procedures, including budgetary boards approval.
The board itself performs this task and approves the guidelines, for the appointment of the external auditor to undertake non Groups overall system of governance and internal controls.
audit work, which aims to provide the best possible services for the Group at the most advantageous price.
The committee reviews the New Zealand Stock Exchange independence of the external auditors on an annual basis and a process Rio Tinto Limited is also listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange is also in place to review their effectiveness to ensure that the Group NZX which has introduced a Corporate Governance Best Practice continues to receive an efficient and unbiased service.
The Audit Code the NZX Code.
As an overseas listed issuer on the NZX, committee advised the directors that it is satisfied that the provision of Rio Tinto Limited is deemed to comply generally with the NZX Listing non audit services by the external auditors during 2006 is compatible Rules, including the NZX Code, while it remains listed on the ASX.
Whilst with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by the the ASX Principles and the NZX Code are substantially the same, there Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Furthermore, as part of its may be some ASX Principles or other ASX corporate governance rules responsibility to foster open communication, the committee meets which differ materially from the NZXs corporate governance rules or the separately with management, the external auditors and the internal NZX Code.
The ASX Principles and other corporate governance rules auditor.
can be found on the ASX website: www.
Financial expert Principal auditors The Audit committee reviewed the SEC requirements for audit The remuneration of the Groups principal auditors for audit services and committees financial experts and the Code requirement that at least other services, as well as remuneration payable to other accounting one committee member should have recent and relevant financial firms, has been set out in note 41 to the 2006 Financial statements.
Following a detailed review, the committee recommended Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the to the board that Michael Fitzpatrick, Andrew Gould and independence of the Groups principal auditors by prohibiting their Sir David Clementi be identified as the Audit committees financial engagement to provide a range of accounting and other professional experts in the 2006 Annual report and financial statements.
The board services that might compromise their appointment as independent has also concluded that Michael Fitzpatrick, Andrew Gould and auditors.
The engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide Sir David Clementi possess the requisite skills, experience and statutory audit services, certain other assurance services, tax services background to qualify for the purpose of clause C. 3.1 of the Code.
and some other specific services are pre-approved annually by the Audit committee.
Each engagement of the Groups principal auditors to 2006 financial statements provide other permitted services is subject to the specific approval of The Audit committee has reviewed and discussed with management the the Audit committee or its chairman.
Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December Prior to the commencement of each financial year, the Groups 2006. finance director submits to the Audit committee a schedule of the types We have discussed with the external auditors the matters described of services that are expected to be performed during the following year in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountant Auditing Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2006 846725 pp082 pp086 24 2 07 9:55 am Page 86 Corporate governance continued Standard No.
90, Audit committee communications, and in the International Standard on Auditing UK and Ireland 260, Communication of Audit Matters with those charged with governance ISA 260, including their judgements regarding the quality of the Groups accounting principles and underlying estimates.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and received and reviewed their written disclosures, as required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees and ISA 260.
Based on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the committee has recommended to the board of directors that the financial statements referred to above be included in the 2006 Annual report and financial statements.
Andrew Gould Chairman Sir David Clementi Vivienne Cox Michael Fitzpatrick Lord Kerr Report of the Nominations committee The Nominations committees activities during 2006 covered executive and non executive succession and appointments.
2006 saw the appointment of both an executive director, Tom Albanese, and a non executive director, Michael Fitzpatrick, as well as the appointment of Bret Clayton as Tom Albaneses successor as chief executive, Copper, followed by the announcement in December 2006 of Toms succession as chief executive in May 2007.
Michael Fitzpatrick is an Australian independent director, who brings extensive Australian and international business experience to the board.
A short biography of each is set out on pages 62 and 63.
As part of his annual performance assessment of individual directors, Paul Skinner, who is chairman of the Nominations committee, has also reviewed the time committed by directors to Group business and confirmed this to be appropriate in each case.
Paul Skinner Chairman Ashton Calvert, AC Sir Rod Eddington David Mayhew Sir Richard Sykes 86 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2006
