Corporate governance Statement on corporate governance compliance set out in detail in a schedule approved annually by the Board, which defines those Rolls-Royce attaches the highest priority to corporate governance, the system by decisions which can only be taken by the Board itself.
which the Company is directed, managed and controlled in the interests of all its The Board has approved the following statement summarising its core stakeholders.
The strength of the Companys corporate values, its reputation and its responsibilities: ability to achieve its objectives are influenced by the effectiveness of the Companys approach towards corporate governance.
Primary goal The Board confirms that throughout 2006, the Company complied with the The primary goal of the Board is to ensure that the Companys strategy creates value Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
This corporate for the long-term investor within an acceptable risk profile.
governance report and, where appropriate, the  report, explain how the Company discharges its corporate governance responsibilities.
The Boards tasks In line with its primary goal, the Board's principal tasks are to: The Boards composition and  ensure the development of the Companys strategy and keep it under rigorous Simon Robertson chairs the Board of the Company and Sir John Rose is the Chief review: Executive.
The division of responsibilities between them is set down in writing and monitor the implementation of the strategy, ensuring that the necessary agreed by the Board.
Peter Byrom is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
financial and human resources are in place to deliver it and that effective There are currently 11 directors on the Board comprising the non-executive controls exist to manage risk: Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five non-executive safeguard the values of the Company, including its brand and corporate directors.
reputation and the safety of its products: The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the Boards oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure through composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure the Boards effective succession planning and remuneration policies that it is maintained at effectiveness and also prevents any individual or small group dominating the Boards world-class standards: and decision making.
maintain an effective corporate governance framework that delivers long-term Each executive director receives a service contract on appointment see the value to shareholders.
 report for further information and each non-executive director receives a letter setting out the conditions of their appointment.
Directorsinduction, training and information Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may be Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction programme and extended subsequently with the agreement of the Board.
Executive directors are receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information on the Group.
employees who have executive responsibilities in addition to their duties as directors.
An existing executive director acts as a mentor to each newly appointed Non-executive directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily non-executive director, giving guidance and advice as required.
As part of their business management of the Group, they are selected with the assistance of briefing, non-executive directors visit key sites and meet a cross-section of managers recruitment consultants.
and employees to gain a better understanding of the Group and its operations.
The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its Ongoing training is available for all the directors, including presentations by the non-executive directors remain independent.
On his appointment as Chairman on executive team on particular aspects of the business.
January 1, 2005, Simon Robertson met the criteria for independence contained in There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional the Combined Code.
His other significant commitments are described on page 41. advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access every director has The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors every year, to the Company Secretary and the General Counsel.
using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Combined Code.
Having undertaken this review in 2006, the Board confirms that all the non-executive Board effectiveness directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman meets at least once a year with the non-executive directors without On January 1, 2007, Peter Byrom completed ten years service on the Board and the executive directors present, in order to review the operation of the Board.
therefore does not meet one of the criteria for independence contained in the The Chairman has an annual meeting with each non-executive director to Combined Code.
Having conducted a thorough review in 2006, the Board continues review their contribution to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director chairs an to hold the view that Peter Byrom remains independent in character and judgement, annual meeting with the non-executive directors to review the performance of the that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect his Chairman, the outcome of which is reported back to him.
independent judgement and that he is in no way dependent on the remuneration Each year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive as he receives from the Company.
The Board believes strongly that in a long-term, part of the annual salary review process overseen by the remuneration committee.
complex and technologically advanced business, it is essential that non-executive The Chief Executive reviews the performance of the other executive directors in the directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the experience same way.
and knowledge of the business and the sectors within which the Group operates.
In 2006, the nominations committee led the annual process to enable the In line with previous plans, the Company intends to appoint a new Senior Board to evaluate the effectiveness of its performance.
Following a review in 2005 Independent Director later this year.
It also expects to appoint to the Board a suitably undertaken by Consilium Associates, the Board decided that in 2006 the review qualified, non-executive director, with the objective of that person succeeding should involve the completion of a written questionnaire by the directors and a series Peter Byrom as Chairman of the audit committee later this year.
of meetings between the Chairman and each individual director.
The results of this exercise were reviewed by the Board in December 2006.
Role of the Board The review covered all aspects of corporate governance, including board and The Board is responsible to all its stakeholders for the conduct and performance of committee structure, board dynamics, the conduct and frequency of board the Company.
meetings, the consideration of strategic issues by the Board and the information The day-to-day running of the Company is delegated by the Board to the provided to directors.
The outcome of this exercise is being used by the directors to executive team under the leadership of Sir John Rose, the Chief Executive.
implement a number of improvements in the way the Board operates, including the The Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters which affect way it reviews strategy and Board composition and processes.
the shape and risk profile of the Company, as well as such items as the annual budget The audit, remuneration and nominations committees have separately and performance targets, the published accounts, payments to shareholders, major undertaken reviews of their terms of reference and effectiveness during 2006. capital investments and any substantial change to balance sheet management policy.
This division of responsibilities between the Board and the executive team is Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 44 Governance Board committees The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the published The Board is assisted by its committees.
Details of their membership and principal accounts and for reviewing the Groups financial reporting and accounting policies, terms of reference are set out below.
Their full terms of reference are available in the including major announcements made to a regulatory information service.
It is also Investors section on the Groups website at www.
com responsible for the relationship with the external auditors and for the internal audit The following table shows the level of attendance by the directors at Board and function, which in Rolls-Royce is termed Business Assurance.
In addition, the principal committee meetings in 2006: committee reviews the Groups procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2006 The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment of the external auditors and for reviewing the nature, scope and results Board Audit Nominations Remuneration of the annual external audit.
It also approves the audit fee and, on an annual basis, Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended assesses the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
It keeps under Hon Amy Bondurant 55 11 3 3 review the Groups internal controls and systems for assessing and mitigating financial Peter Byrom 77 44 22 5 5 and non-financial risk.
It also reviews and approves the Business Assurance work John Cheffins 76 programmes and ensures that this function is adequately resourced and Iain Conn 75 43 21 co-ordinated with the work of the external auditors.
Twice a year the committee Carl-Peter Forster 53 10 3 2 receives a written report on the reviews conducted throughout the Group by Colin Green 11 Business Assurance, and a report from senior executives on the key business risks and James Guyette 77 risk systems in selected sectors.
Simon Robertson 77 22 In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the following policy Sir John Rose 77 22 is applied in relation to services provided by the auditors: Andrew Shilston 77 Audit related services these are undertaken by the auditors as it is work that they Colin Smith 77 must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities relating to borrowings, Ian Strachan 76 44 22 shareholder and other circulars, risk management services, various regulatory reports Carl Symon 77 22 5 5 and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: Sir John Taylor 77 22 5 5 Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are used for this work where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant consulting work in The number of meetings held during the period a director was in office or a member of a committee.
these areas is put out to tender: and All other advisory services consulting the auditors are generally prohibited from Nominations committee providing these services.
In 2006, the nominations committee was chaired by Simon Robertson.
Its other Throughout the year the committee monitors the cost of non-audit work members were the Hon Amy Bondurant until September 14, 2006, Peter Byrom, undertaken by the auditors and is, therefore, in a position to take action if at any time Iain Conn, Carl-Peter Forster until September 14, 2006, Sir John Rose, Ian Strachan, it believes that there is a risk of the auditorsindependence being undermined Carl Symon and Sir John Taylor.
The committee met twice during the year.
through the award of this work.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors and on the membership of Board committees.
Risk committee It is assisted in the former task by external recruitment consultants.
It reviews The Board has a risk committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, with specific succession planning for appointments to the Board and to other senior positions accountability for the system of risk management and for reporting key risks and within the Group.
The committee also oversees the annual review of Board their associated mitigating actions to the Board.
In 2006, membership of the effectiveness.
committee comprised John Cheffins, Colin Green until April 4, 2006, James Guyette, In carrying out these tasks, the committee gives careful consideration to the Sir John Rose, Andrew Shilston and Colin Smith.
balance of skills required on the Board, including the need to reflect diversity, international experience and strong managerial and business skills.
Before Internal controls and risk management recommending the appointment of a non-executive director to the Board, the committee satisfies itself that the candidate will have sufficient time available to  discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and operational Remuneration committee perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The committee determines, on the but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups Boards behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the executive directors and a approach to internal control is based on the underlying principle of line number of senior executives.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the management remuneration of the Chairman.
The committee met five times during the year.
The s accountability for control and risk management.
committees membership and principal terms of reference are set out in the Directors In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the Board has remuneration report on page 48. taken account of the results of the work carried out to audit and review the activities of the Group.
Audit committee There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and manage risk, including those The audit committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive directors risks affecting the Groups reputation.
This process is subject to continuous and is chaired by Peter Byrom who has recent and relevant financial experience.
improvement and has been in place throughout the financial year to which these In 2006, its other members were Iain Conn and Ian Strachan.
The committee met four statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
In 2006, the risk review times during the year.
The Director of Risk, Head of Business Assurance and a framework has been enhanced at both programme and sector level and assurance representative of the external auditors normally attend the meetings.
Additionally the activities are more closely co-ordinated with the risk management process.
Head of Business Assurance has direct access to the committee.
The Chairman of the The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and any other Board member or ongoing processes and systems ensure that Rolls-Royce continues to be compliant senior executive attend the meetings as necessary, at the invitation of the audit committee Chairman.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 45 Corporate governance continued with the Turnbull guidance as contained inInternal Control: Guidance for Directors findings and the status of corrective actions taken to address these are reported in on the Combined Code.
writing to both the audit and risk committees twice a year.
Organisation Export controls The Group has a clearly defined organisation structure within which operational The Group attaches the highest priority to complying fully with export controls in all management has detailed responsibilities and levels of authorisation, supported by the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Detailed processes have been put in place to written job descriptions and operating manuals.
ensure that the Group follows all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board has established an exports committee, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, The risk management system which has responsibility for the application of appropriate controls to the Groups The risk management system is an integral part of managements approach to export activity.
delivering business objectives and is a systematic process designed to identify, assess, In the UK, the Group fully complies with the provisions of the UK Export Control treat, manage and communicate risks.
It also provides a method of escalation and Act on both tangible and intangible exports and with the regulations relating to delegation to the appropriate level within the organisation and ensures actions are trade, between third parties outside the UK.
Additionally, the Group complies with owned, defined, resourced and effective.
the relevant EU regulations regarding the export of dual use goods and technology.
Management is responsible for the ongoing identification and evaluation of In relation to other jurisdictions, most notably that of the USA, the Group vigorously significant risks within its areas of responsibility and, using a common process, for the enforces a policy of compliance with both the relevant national legislation and its operation of suitable controls or mitigation actions.
Risks are recorded in regularly underlying regulatory intent.
updated risk registers operating at all levels of the organisation and are continuously reviewed and monitored.
During the review process, significant emphasis is placed Ethics on learning from and sharing prior experience.
Risks may arise from a variety of The Board believes strongly that the Groups business should be conducted in a way internal and external sources.
They may be associated with regulations, customer that reflects the highest ethical standards.
requirements and competitor actions or could result from the capability of the Rolls-Royce has a Global Code of Business Ethics which lays down the principles processes used to execute the business or from external and largely unpredictable to be followed by employees when conducting business.
The code also gives events, such as terrorist activity or war.
The principal risks and uncertainties for the guidance to support achievement of the required standards.
Additionally, confidential Group are shown on pages 18 and 19. reporting lines enable UK and US employees to report, outside the normal Risks, irrespective of source, are managed through processes operated by management chain, any concerns they may have with regard to business conduct.
Management reports regularly to the risk committee on its view of risks and how they are managed so that the Board can then consider Communication with shareholders and review these risks in terms of their potential impact.
The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its communications with Management has continued to perform comprehensive risk reviews for all key shareholders.
It publishes an Annual review and summary financial statement as well projects, programmes and business change plans.
In addition, all the processes as a full Annual report.
There are also separate reports covering the environment and operated by the Group are subject to continuous improvement, including the risk community relations.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and the financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and interim Systems of internal control results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation in stockbrokers The general managers of individual businesses are aware of their responsibility to seminars and site visits.
operate systems of internal control which provide reasonable assurance of effective Each year the Group holds an investorsseminar, in order to improve the and efficient operations, reliable financial information and compliance with laws and financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce investors to a regulations.
Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that their broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain access to these and other routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that their results are properly presentations, as well as to the Annual report and other information about the Group, stated in accordance with Group requirements.
on the Groups website at www.
com The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
Company highlights key business developments during the year and at which Actual results are reported monthly against budget and variances reviewed.
shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, The activities of the Group are subject to review by the Department of Risk, remuneration and nominations committees are available to answer any questions including Business Assurance and Project Risk Assessment, and the assurance from shareholders on the work of their committees.
functions of Health, Safety and Environment, Quality and Engineering.
These The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant functions operate to work programmes agreed by the appropriate Board member.
documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the The Business Assurance function, which works closely with the external auditors, AGM.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications undertakes a programme of financial and operational audits and reviews agreed by electronically, notice is given by email of the availability of documents on the Groups the audit committee and covering all Group activities.
independent reviews of the systems of internal control and risk management.
The Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests with the executive management team led by the Chief Executive.
However, the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 46 Governance the non-executive directors make themselves available to meet with shareholders information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the as required.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of  in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements Disclosure of information to auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group and Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and that: regulations.
i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company Companys auditors are unaware.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required ii the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Act.
EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 theAct provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Act.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Report of the directors,  report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 47
