CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 23.
Set out within this section is a commentary on how the Company Companys businesses.
Their deliberations are reported to the Audit Corporate Governance applies the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Committee and Board.
This process is based on senior managers Corporate Governance the Code.
Specific disclosures required detailed knowledge and understanding of key risks within and within the provisions of the Code are also made within this section.
external to the business based on formal management information and reports and their interaction and daily dealings with those Code Compliance Statement reporting directly to them, their colleagues and external parties.
The All current serving executive directors now have one year notice principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are commented on period or less in their service contracts.
Following the appointment of in the Business Review section of this Annual Report.
IG King during 2005, currently there are now three independent nonexecutives as accepted by the Combined Code on the Board and the Internal financial audits are undertaken on a regular basis by a Board Committees.
As Rotork p. l. c. is considered a large company by selected group of accountants drawn from head office and across the the Code it is recognised that for full compliance, Code provision divisional businesses and geographic centres.
3.2 currently would require a further two independent nonhave received relevant and specific training in internal audit, best executives to be appointed so that half the Board excluding the practice and control procedures, including health and safety.
Work Chairman comprise non-executive directors.
The appointment of IG will continue to further embed internal control and risk management King is considered by the Board to be a significant step towards full in the operations of the business and to further enhance and add to compliance in respect of the relevant Code provisions, concerning the relevant processes including consideration of social and Board composition, in addition to facilitating full compliance for environmental risks.
Subject to the matter of the number of independent non-executives referred to in this paragraph the The processes that are used by the Board to review the effectiveness Company considers that it complies with the provisions of the Code.
of this system of internal control include the following: Internal Control During the year the Audit Committee: The Company has during the year operated procedures necessary to comply with the guidance issued in the Turnbull Report, and by Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of internal audit reporting in accordance with that guidance.
activities: Reviewed and monitored external auditor independence and The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: internal control and is required to set appropriate policies and to Considered reports from management, internal and external review its effectiveness.
The role of management is to implement audit on the system of internal financial control and any material Board policies.
control weaknesses: Received reports on Health and Safety and environmental issues: The system of internal control is designed to reduce but cannot Discussed with management the range of actions taken on eliminate the risks of failure to meet business objectives.
Internal problem areas for the business identified by Board members or control therefore can only provide reasonable but not absolute in the internal and external audit reports.
assurance in meeting such business objectives or against material misstatement or loss.
A continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company continued to be applied and developed during the year under review and operated up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Senior managers with responsibility across all functions participate in the risk management process that identifies and evaluates the key risks including consideration of social and environmental risks facing the 24.
Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED meetings in person and two by video-link.
During the year Board Performance Evaluation Corporate Governance meetings are scheduled at manufacturing sites other than the A formal process for performance evaluation of the Board, its Companys headquarters in Bath.
This allows in particular nonCommittees and individual directors takes place annually.
In 2006 the continued executive directors to meet management at these sites and receive evaluation took the form of individual interviews by the Chairman presentations from them.
During the year under review the Board with all the directors using as a framework for the discussion a list visited and held a Board meeting at the recently established of pre-notified points for discussion.
After due consideration the manufacturing plant in Shanghai, China and at the Leeds plant.
Chairman then delivered an overall summary of the evaluation results to the Board at a Board meeting.
JW Matthews, the senior The Chairman ensures through the Company Secretary that the independent director led the performance evaluation of the Board Agenda and all relevant information is provided to the Board Chairman.
sufficiently in advance of meetings.
The Chairman and Company Secretary discuss the Agenda ahead of every meeting.
At meetings For year 2007 the Board evaluation was conducted by use of a the Chairman ensures that all directors are able to make an effective Additionally: detailed questionnaire prepared in conjunction with external contribution throughout meetings and every director is encouraged to consultants who also provided analysis of the responses to the participate and provide opinions for each Agenda item.
The Chairman The Board received copies of the minutes of all Audit Committee Chairman for consideration prior to him briefing the Board on the always seeks to achieve unanimous decisions of the Board following meetings: main results of the evaluation.
due discussion of Agenda items.
The Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board reviewed the role of insurances in managing risk details those matters specifically reserved for Board decision.
The across the Group: Nomination Committee types of decision which are reserved for Board decision relate to The Board regularly receives written and oral reports from The Nomination Committees five members during the year under matters which cannot, or the Board considers should not, be management on all aspects of production, operations, financial review were RC Lockwood who chairs the committee, JW Matthews, delegated to the Chief Executive and executive management.
They and risk management matters.
A Walker, IG King and WH Whiteley.
include approval of Group commercial strategy and succession planning, approval of Group annual operating and capital expenditure Prior to the year end the full Board following discussion at the Audit Following the appointment of the third independent non-executive budgets and recommendations for payment of the final proposed Committee formally reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system director, IG King, the Nomination Committee now comprises three dividend and decisions for interim dividends and dividend policy, of internal control.
independent directors, the Chief Executive and Chairman.
A majority approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and announcements of of the members of the Nomination Committee are therefore final and interim results, ensuring sound internal control and risk The Board independent non-executive directors as accepted by the Code.
The management, executive director remuneration, corporate governance The Board currently has nine members comprising the Chairman, Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee can be accessed matters including Board and Committee performance appraisals, the three independent non-executive directors as accepted by the on the Companys website in the Investors section.
The Board regularly considers Code, and five executive directors.
On appointment directors receive and discusses future strategy, following submissions by a suitable and tailored induction.
There is a clear division of The Committee meets regularly to undertake its duties.
There were management, at Board meetings and, on occasion, separate strategy responsibility approved by the Board in writing between the two formally minuted meetings of the Committee in the year under meetings.
The non-executive directors constructively challenge and Chairman, RC Lockwood, and the Chief Executive, WH Whiteley, that review.
IG King attended one of these formal meetings, the other help develop proposals on strategy at those meetings.
The decisions ensures that there is a balance of power and authority between the members of the Committee attended both.
which are left to management are all those related to the successful running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the running operation and management of the Companys business and in of the Companys business.
JW Matthews is the Senior Independent Succession planning discussions continued in the year and there was implementing the commercial strategy within the limits set by the non-executive director.
consideration in particular of the development of a formal CEO Board annually for overall operational budgets and capital succession process mindful that WH Whiteleys contractual expenditure.
The full Board had eight meetings spread appropriately over the retirement date is in 2008. course of the year under review.
During the year RC Lockwood, The Chairman ensures that meetings of non-executives without the A Walker, JW Matthews, WH Whiteley, RE Slater and GM Ogden During the year the Committee recommended the appointment of PI executives present are held.
The Company maintains appropriate attended every Board meeting.
IG King attended seven meetings and France as an executive director.
In making this recommendation the directors and officers insurance cover.
RH Arnold, a United States resident and national, attended five Board Committee took due account of the composition and balance of skills, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25. knowledge and experience of the Board.
The appointment of PI Director is also Head of Internal Audit.
The work undertaken by the poll being called at the AGM the balance for and against the France, as an executive director, recognised the growth and Committee in discharging its internal control responsibilities is resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed for increasing significance of the Fluid System division within the Group described under the Internal Control section above.
During the year shareholders after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Prior to during the five years of his leadership.
the Committee actively reviews the actions and judgements of the AGM the Company Secretary reports to the Board on the results management in relation to the Companys financial statements, of the proxy returns and on the comments and analysis undertaken Audit Committee business review, interim reports and preliminary announcements by voting agencies.
The Audit Committee was during the year under review comprised of before their submission to the Board with the Committees the three independent non-executive directors, JW Matthews recommendations for approval or otherwise.
The Committee Chairman, A Walker and IG King.
The Committee usually meets considers the appointment of the auditor and recommends the audit three times a year to review published financial information, the fees to the Board.
effectiveness of both external and internal audit and internal financial and other controls.
The Finance Director, Chief Executive, Chairman The Committee discusses with the external auditor before the audit and the external auditors normally attend meetings and there is a commences the nature and scope of the audit and reviews steps meeting at least once a year between the Committee and the taken by the auditor to respond to regulatory requirements.
external auditors at which management is not present.
Remuneration Committee The matter of auditor independence is considered by the Committee.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is described in the The auditor does provide non-audit services.
The Audit Committee Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 34.
JW Matthews and A Walker has approved a written policy for non-audit work conducted by the attended all four of the formal meetings of the Remuneration auditor.
Whenever a non-audit work instruction excluding tax advice Committee during the year under review.
The exceeds 10,000 in fee value the Group Finance Director must clear Chairman and Chief Executive were invited to attend formal meetings the instruction in advance with the Audit Committee Chairman.
If but the Chief Executive was not in attendance when his own non-audit instructions in aggregate exceed 40,000 in any year then remuneration and benefits were considered.
the excess must be approved on an item by item basis by the Audit Committee Chairman.
For significant general consulting projects Relations with Shareholders more than one service delivery provider is normally considered.
Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
All members Categories of non-audit work provided by the auditor with fees are of the Board receive copies of all analysts reports of which the set out in note 8.
Tax advice provided by the auditor substantially Company is made aware.
The Board receives non-attributable analyst relates to compliance matters.
Within the Audit Committees Terms comments from analyst meetings and shareholder meetings after of Reference is a requirement for the Committee to assess the both interim and final results.
The Chief Executive reports at each independence of the external auditor ensuring key partners are Board meeting upon his meetings with analysts, fund managers and rotated at appropriate intervals and to ensure that the provision of shareholders.
The Company Secretary has written on behalf of the non-audit services does not impair the external auditors Board to the Companys major shareholders offering meetings with independence or objectivity.
This assessment was undertaken by the the non-executive directors and requesting shareholders to confirm Committee during the year.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit they are content with current Board level contact with the Company Committee are available to view on the Companys website in the and communication to non-executives.
The Chairman attends the Investors section.
preliminary and interim announcements in London with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and is available to meet fund All of the members of the Audit Committee, during 2006 being, JW managers and analysts on those days.
Matthews, A Walker and IG King attended all three meetings of the Committee.
RE Slater, WH Whiteley and RC Lockwood attended all Individual shareholders have an opportunity to put questions to the three meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The internal audit Chairman at the AGM and individual shareholder enquiries are dealt function is undertaken by members of the Groups finance with throughout the year by the Company Secretarys department.
departments who all have other distinct posts.
The Group Finance For the AGM all proxy votes are counted and except in the event of a
