13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 40 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Committee Combined Code In order to manage effectively the Groups structure In the opinion of the Board the Chairman and all the and organisation during a time when expectations other Non-Executive Directors are independent from about the nature and standards of Corporate the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Governance have been changing significantly and Companys shareholders for good governance and the rapidly, RPS has established a Corporate Governance statement set out below describes how the principles Committee.
This comprises the Chairman, Chief identified in the Combined Code already referred to Executive and Company Secretary: other Directors above are applied by the Company.
The Corporate are consulted as necessary.
The Committee reviews Governance Committee has reviewed RPS issues as they arise and is also responsible for keeping performance against the recommendations in the the Board appraised about the implications in respect Code.
In summary the position is as follows: of changes to the Combined Code.
The work of the Corporate Governance Committee is, therefore, reflected into the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees as well as the structure, composition and operation of the Group Board, including the production of the policies described in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report pages 18 to 20.
Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 28 29 include a statement of how the Board operates.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior A.
1.2 Compliant 30-39 Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman and members of Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of A.
1.4 Compliant 29 the Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split, and the individual A.
2.1 Compliant 29 roles clearly set out in writing.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 28 The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 30-39 considers to be independent.
At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive A.
3.2 NonDirectors determined by the board to be independent.
Compliant The Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be A.
3.3 Compliant 20 36 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders.
Until RPS joined the FTSE250 on 28 July 2006 it was required to have only 2 Non-Executive Directors.
Upon joining the FTSE250 the requirement went up to 5 Non-Executives as there are 5 Executives on the Board.
It is intended, therefore, to recruit 1 new Non-Executive during 2007 and then review the position again.
40 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 41 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Combined Code paragraph Comment Page There should be a Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee should make A.
4.1 Compliant 53-55 available its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and A.
4.2 Compliant 54-55 experience on the Board and evaluate the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
On appointment of a Chairman, the Nomination Committee should prepare A.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors should be made A.
4.4 Compliant 54 available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The annual report should describe the work of the Nomination Committee, including A.
4.6 Compliant 53-55 processes it has used in relation to Board appointments.
New Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
5.1 Compliant 29 Shareholders should be offered the opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive.
All Directors should have access to independent professional advice.
5.2 Compliant 29 Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Company A.
5.3 Compliant 29 Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board should state in the annual report how it evaluates performance of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 29 its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
All Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General A.
7.1 Compliant Notice Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no of more than three years.
Meeting The Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to A.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive should be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 44 proportion of the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
Share options should not be offered at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 47 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect the time commitment and B.
1.3 Compliant 49 responsibilities of the role.
The Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 49 the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
Notice or contract periods of Executive Directors should be one year or less.
1.6 Compliant 49 A Remuneration Committee should be established with at least three Independent B.
Compliant The Remuneration Committee should have published terms of reference.
43-44 The Remuneration Committee should set remuneration for all executives and B.
The Remuneration Committee should recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Board should determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.3 Compliant 49 Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive B.
2.4 Compliant 46 schemes and significant changes to existing schemes.
The Group currently has 3 Non-Executive Directors apart from the Chairman.
No Executive Director sits on any of the 3 major committees audit, remuneration and nomination.
In addition the Chairman does not sit on either the audit or remuneration committees.
As a result of this it is only practical for 2 Non-Executive Directors to sit on these committees.
This is likely change when a new Non-Executive Director is appointed.
Management & Governance 41 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 42 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing C. 1.1 Compliant 60-61 & 63 accounts and a statement, by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors should report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 60 The Board should conduct at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups C. 2.1 Compliant 43 system of internal controls and should report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Board should establish an Audit Committee with at least three members C. 3.1 Non-Compliant See footnote who should all be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
on page 41 The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee should be set out in written terms C. 3.2 3.3 Compliant 52-53 of reference.
This should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company C. 3.4 Compliant 52 may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an C. 3.5 Compliant 53 internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation C. 3.6 Compliant 53 on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
If the Board does not accept the Audit Committees recommendation it should C3.6 Compliant n a include in its annual report a statement explaining why the Board take a different position.
The annual report should explain to shareholders how independence is C. 3.7 Compliant 52 safeguarded if the auditor provides non audit services.
The Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are disclosed to the D. 1.1 Compliant 20 Board as a whole.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the shareholders.
The Board should state in their annual report the steps they have taken to ensure Board D. 1.2 Compliant 20 members develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Company.
The Company should count all proxy votes and indicate the level of proxies D. 2.1 Compliant Notice lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution of and the number of abstentions.
The Company should ensure that votes cast are Meeting properly received and recorded.
The Company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantially D. 2.2 Compliant separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating to the report and accounts.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees should attend the D. 2.3 Compliant 20 AGM in order to be available to answer questions.
The Company should arrange for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to D. 2.4 Compliant shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
42 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 43 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Communication and minimum standards required by the Board for effective financial control.
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders.
The full report Capital investment:The Company has clearly and accounts are made available to all shareholders defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These and to other parties who have an interest in the include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review Groups performance.
The Company responds to procedures, levels of authority and due diligence numerous letters from shareholders and customers requirements where businesses are being acquired.
The Companys web site provides up-to-date information about its organisation, Remuneration Report the services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
The Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee at the end of the year There is regular dialogue with individual were: Karen McPherson and John Bennett.
institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have assisted All shareholders have the opportunity to put the Remuneration Committee in their deliberations on questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Company Secretary is in attendance at the meeting to provide the Audit and internal controls committee with any additional advice that is required.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and None of the Executive Directors have any the independent auditors in connection with the external appointments.
accounts are explained on pages 60-61 and 63 and the statement of the Directors in respect of going Remuneration Committee - Terms of concern appears on page 60.
Reference The Board has procedures in place as nn the Committee has been delegated responsibility recommended in the guidance in The Combined by the Board to determine and agree with the Code on Corporate Governance and Turnbull: Board the framework or broad policy for the Guidance on Internal Controls and these have been remuneration of the Executive Directors and in place for the whole year and up to the date of Senior Employees of the Company: the approval of the financial statements.
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the executive members of the Board The risk management policies are described on who take advice from the independent pages 15-17. consultants.
No Director or manager is involved in The Directors are responsible for the Groups any decisions as to their own remuneration: system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against nn within the terms of the agreed policy, determine material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews from the total individual remuneration package of each time to time the effectiveness of the system of Executive Director including, where appropriate, internal control from information provided by bonuses, benefits, long-term incentive allocations management page 16 and the Groups external and share options: auditors.
The key procedures that the Directors nn the quorum necessary for the transaction of have established to provide effective internal business shall be two.
A duly convened meeting of financial controls are as follows: the Committee at which a quorum is present shall Financial reporting: A detailed formal budgeting be competent to exercise all or any of the process for all Group businesses culminates in an authorities, powers and discretions vested in or annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.
exercisable by the Committee: The results for the Group are reported monthly nn determine the policy for and scope of pension against this budget to the Board.
arrangements for each Executive Director: Financial and accounting principles and internal nn determine targets for any performance-related pay financial controls assurance: Compliance with these and share schemes operated by the Company: is reviewed as requested.
A detailed financial and accounting controls manual sets out the principles of Management & Governance 43 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 44 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Report continued nn in determining such packages and arrangements, The Committee is, in addition, mindful of trends give due regard to the comments and and best practice amongst listed companies of a recommendations of the Combined Code as well similar size in the Support Services sector.
as the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and associated guidance: 1 nn ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and Alan Hearne 1 Fixed 41% the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that 2 Variable 59% the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised, in line 2 with the statement of best practice in the ABI Guidelines: 1 nn ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Peter Dowen 1 Fixed 49% and the Code, are fulfilled: 2 Variable 51% nn be aware of and advise on any major changes in 2 employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group: 1 nn be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting Andrew Troup the terms of reference for any remuneration 1 Fixed 49% 2 Variable 51% consultants who advise the Committee: nn meet as required during the year: and 2 nn report the frequency of, and attendance by members at, Remuneration Committee meetings 1 in the annual report see page 39.
Gary Y oung Remuneration policy 1 Fixed 49% 2 Variable 51% The Remuneration Committees policy is to set the main elements of the remuneration package in order 2 to reflect: nn the performance of the individual concerned: 1 nn the performance of the business unit s for which Phil Williams he she is responsible: 1 Fixed 49% 2 Variable 51% nn in the case of Group directors, the performance of the Group as a whole: and 2 nn the relevant market s for executives and the terms and conditions prevailing in those markets.
Analysis of fixed versus performance related pay for Executive Directors 2006 The Committee recognises that the main competitors of the Group and, therefore, comparators Notes: for remuneration are found outside the group of Fixed compensation comprises: companies that are listed.
In consequence, the nn Basic salary Committee needs to reflect that in its deliberations nn Benefits including RPS market leading position in a number Variable compensation comprises: of those markets.
nn Maximum Bonus Potential nn Face Value of LTIP Awards 44 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 45 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 The policy is designed to attract, retain and This group was identified independently by motivate individuals by providing the opportunity to Halliwell Consulting.
earn competitive levels of compensation provided The basis of selection of the group was: performance is delivered, whilst remaining within the nn companies within the same sector as the range of compensation offered by similar companies.
Company: and Directors remuneration is the subject of annual nn companies with a range of market capitalisations review in accordance with this policy.
Additionally, it such that the Company sits within the middle of focuses on the contribution to the continued long the comparator group.
term growth and success of the Company and seeks to align their interests with those of the Company, Performance bonus employees and shareholders.
The following table shows in detail the potential level The charts on page 44 demonstrate the of bonus earned for a given level of earnings per proportion of the maximum potential compensation share performance under the 2006 bonus plan: which is performance related for each Executive The maximum bonus payable to the CEO is Director.
70% of salary and to the other Executives 50%.
The The Remuneration Committee appointed and bonuses payable for 2006 were calculated on the received wholly independent advice on executive basis of earnings per share growth based upon the compensation and associated share administration Companys adjusted figures under IFRS.
The EPS from Halliwell Consulting.
growth shown in the audited accounts was 32.5%.
This gives rise to the Executives being eligible for Base salary the maximum bonus payable.
When determining the salary of the Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee has taken Earnings per Share Growth Inclusive of RPI % of Bonus Payable into consideration: 5% 20% nn the performance of the Group as a whole: 6% 33% nn the performance of the individual Executive 7% 41% Director both for the Group and the businesses 8% 49% under his control: 9% 57% 10% 65% nn pay and conditions throughout the Company: and 11% 68.50% nn the market conditions in the sector the Group 12% 72% operates in.
13% 75.50% 14% 79% The results of this exercise were then 15% 82.50% benchmarked against an independently established 16% 86% group of listed companies.
17% 89.50% 18% 93% 19% 96.50% The companies comprising the comparator group are 20% 100% as follows: Alfred McAlpine John Menzies Ashstead Group Johnson Service Group The Remuneration Committee has determined after Babcock International Group Mitie Group reviewing the operation of the executive annual bonus BPP Holdings Mouchel Parkman plan to make the following changes to its operation Communisis PayPoint for 2007: Diploma Premier Farnell DX Services RPC Group nn the maximum bonus potential for the CEO has Enterprise Shanks Group been increased to 100% of salary and for the Erinaceous Group Speedy Hire other Executives to 80%.
These changes bring the Interserve WSP Group maximum bonus potentials into line with the median level in the market and support the Management & Governance 45 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 46 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives The maximum annual grant under the LTIP is 100% Remuneration Committees objective of having a of salary for the Executive Directors.
The first grant of substantial part of the executive compensation awards for the financial year 2004 were for the Chief package performance based: Executive 100% of salary and for the other Executive nn a change in the types of bonus targets used for Directors 75% of salary, based on the performance of the 2007 plan: the Groups total shareholder return TSR compared % of Bonus % of Bonus subject over a three year period from date of grant against subject to to Divisional & Executive EPS TargetIndividual Targets the comparator group detailed on page 42 of the Chief Executive 100% 2004 Annual Report.
The Remuneration Committee Finance Director 75% 25% reviews on an annual basis the current share Executive Directors 75% 25% incentives in respect of: nn an increase in the range of EPS growth in the nn their operation: bonus schedule from 5% to 20% to 5% to 32%.
It nn the grant levels: and should be noted that the CEO cannot earn more nn the performance criteria under the 2007 Plan in respect of EPS growth of 20% than he would have earned under the 2006 in order to ensure that what has been approved by Plan i. e. the maximum bonus payable in both shareholders remain appropriate to the Companys years for EPS growth of 20% is 70% of the CEOs current circumstances and prospects.
It is only for performance above EPS review the Committee determined for the second growth of 20% that the additional bonus potential grant of awards on 16 May 2005 that the Chief in 2007 will start to be earned.
Executive was allocated 80% of salary and the other Executive Directors, 60% of salary as an LTIP award.
The following table sets out the EPS schedule for the Shareholders were consulted and approved this 2007 Plan: measure in early 2005.
Earnings per Share % Bonus Payable Growth Inclusive of RPI for EPS Element The Committee agreed to leave these allocations 5% 14.00% unchanged for the third grant on 30 March 2006.
The 6% 23.10% second and third grant of awards have been using EPS 7% 28.70% growth as a performance condition.
Options follows: were not issued at a discount.
The Performance Conditions attached to the Share Options granted to Average Basic EPS Percentage of LTIP Growth p. a. above RPI Award Released the Directors under the Executive Share Option Schemes are that: 3% 12.5% 4% 25% nn Ordinary Options may only be exercised if, over 5% 37.5% any three year measurement period of the 6% 50% Company, beginning no earlier than the financial 7% 62.5% year during which the option is granted, the 8% 75% percentage growth in earnings per share exceeds 9% 87.5% the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the 10% 100% same period by at least 3% per annum, being 9% There will be straight line release between these for the three year period: and points.
nn Super Options may only be exercised if, over any The Remuneration Committee will determine the five year measurement period of the Company, satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The EPS beginning no earlier than the financial year during figure used by the Company will be the audited which the option is granted, the percentage basic EPS figure disclosed in the Companys growth in earnings per share exceeds the growth Financial Statements.
in the Retail Price Index over the same period by at least 6% per annum, being 30% for the five year The Remuneration Committee, on conducting the period.
It is also necessary for the share price to annual review of the operation of the LTIP for 2007, rise over both the three and five year periods to determined to make the following changes to the make the exercise worthwhile.
proposed 2007 grant of awards: The options granted to Executive Directors nn an increase in the award made to the CEO from during 2003 were Ordinary and Super Options.
80% of salary to 100%: and Options are not able to be exercised if nn an increase in the award made to the other performance is below target, and there is no reward Executives from 60% of salary to 80%.
The performance The primary reason for the Remuneration conditions are measured at the end of the three year Committees decision to increase the level of award holding periods applying to the relevant grants of was to bring the Company into line with its policy of Options.
There is no re-testing of the performance providing median comparative levels of award under conditions.
The Directors are required to refund to the its share incentives.
The Remuneration Committee Company all National Insurance contributions payable strongly believes that increasing the balance of the at exercise.
This makes the effective tax rate for compensation package provided to the Executives in Executives 47%.
The Directors individual share options favour of the performance elements is in the interests are detailed in the Directors report on page 59. of both the Company and shareholders.
In the case of The Remuneration Committee determines both the increase in annual bonus potential and the whether the performance condition has been met increase in award level under the LTIP, Executives will using the earnings per share information contained in only receive the full benefit if they generate the Companys annual report and accounts, and may consistently high levels of EPS growth over both the take advice from the independent advisors as to short and medium term.
whether any adjustments are required to ensure For 2003 and earlier years long-term incentives consistency in accordance with the terms of the comprised of annual grants of options.
This procedure is followed in Remuneration Committee set out the level of the order to ensure that no Director is in a position to option grant to the Executive Directors of the rule on whether the performance conditions applying Company at the median level.
to his own incentives have been satisfied.
Management & Governance 47 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 48 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Report continued The performance condition comparing increases discount to the price at which shares can be acquired.
in earnings per share against inflation was chosen in No new contracts have been offered under the plan order to ensure that options would only become since 2003. exercisable against a background of a sustained real Executive Directors can also participate in the allincrease in the financial performance of the Company.
employee Inland Revenue Share Incentive Plan SIP.
No further options will be granted to the The SIP gives employees the opportunity to purchase Executive Directors following the adoption of the LTIP.
up to 1,500 of shares a year with the Company providing additional one matching share for every The Companys rolling dilution for the purposes of employee purchased share.
The total participation in the ABI guidelines is less than 1% pa for all share plans the SIP scheme is 33% of eligible employees.
and less than 0.5% pa for discretionary plans.
The Executive Directors also receive the following Benefits additional benefits: The Executive Directors participate in a Company nn healthcare: money purchase defined contribution scheme for nn life assurance and dependants pensions: which the Employer Contribution is 15%.
nn disability schemes: and The Remuneration Committee agreed to make a one-off payment of 300,000 to the pension plan of nn company car or car allowance.
the CEO prior to 6 April 2006 representing 6 years Shareholding guideline of future annual contributions i. e. 50,000 p. a.. No further pension contributions will be made during this Shareholdings across the Executive Directors and period.
The Remuneration Committee agreed this Senior Executives are not uniform.
The Remuneration payment for the following reasons: Committee has, therefore, introduced shareholding guidelines to encourage long-term share ownership by nn the overall cost to the Company was less than the Executives.
The guidelines encourage Executive paying a future net of tax salary supplement due Directors to build up and retain a holding of shares.
to employers national insurance savings: The Remuneration Committee believes this forms a nn there has been no compensation for the loss of stable incentive pay platform on which to build a tax relief on future pension contributions: and responsible relationship between shareholders, the Executives and the Company.
nn the CEO entered an agreement which ensures that the Company can recover any part of the It is intended that the Executives will be able one-off payment not accrued if he ceases to build up the necessary shareholding by their employment with the Company within the six participation in the LTIP.
If the shareholding year period.
The Remuneration Committee requirement is not proportionately satisfied the believes that the Company is adequately Remuneration Committee may take this into account protected on the CEOs cessation of employment when determining the levels of future awards under as the maximum exposure would be less than the the LTIP.
CEOs contractual entitlements on cessation.
The table below summarises the policy: Executive Directors can also participate in the allRecommended Shareholding Requirement As employee Sharesave Plan.
Under the rules of this Plan, Percentage of Salary all employees can contribute up to 250 per month Position Built Up Over Five Years Chief Executive 150% with the option to buy shares at the end of the Other Executive Directors 100% savings contract at the price at the start of the contract.
Currently the Company does not provide a 48 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 49 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Service contracts respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after mitigation is considered.
None of the Directors The Companys policy on the duration of service contracts provide for automatic payments in excess of contracts is that: one year.
None of the Directors contracts provide for nn Executive Directors should have rolling service liquidated damages.
In the year ended 31 December contracts terminable on no more than one years 2006 no compensation was paid to any Director notice served by the Company or the Director: resigning from the Board.
and Details of the Directors service contracts are nn Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed included in the table below.
terms of three years, renewable on agreement of The table below shows that the only event both the Company and the Director.
on the occurrence of which the Company is liable The policy on termination payments is that the to make a payment to Executive Directors is on Company does not make payments beyond its cessation of employment.
contractual obligations, including any payment in Potential payment in event Name Potential termination payment Company takeover or liquidation Alan Hearne 12 months notice Nil Peter Dowen 12 months notice Nil Andrew Troup 12 months notice Nil Gary Young 12 months notice Nil Phil Williams 12 months notice Nil The Companys articles state that a Director shall receives a higher fee than the other Non-Executive retire at the first Annual General Meeting after the Directors and Committee Chairmen receive an date of his seventieth birthday, and then must face additional payment.
The basic fee for the Nonannual election thereafter.
All Directors face election Executive Directors for 2006 was 25,000 with a at least every three years.
Committee Chairman fee of 2,000 and a Senior Non-Executive fee of 2,500.
The Chairman Non-Executive Directors received 72,500.
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are Details of the terms of appointment of the determined by the Board and aim to be competitive serving Non-Executive Directors are set out in with other fully listed companies of equivalent size the table below: and complexity.
The Chairman of the Company Unexpired term of contract as at Name Initial Contract date 31 December 2006 months Brook Land September 1997 4 Roger Devlin April 2002 16 Karen McPherson June 2005 18 John Bennett June 2006 30 Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection participate in the pension plan or the performance by any person at the Companys registered office and based pay schemes including annual bonus and share at the AGM.
Terms and conditions of appointment of Management & Governance 49 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 50 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Report continued Performance Graph FTSE All Share, the FTSE All Share Support Services The graph overleaf shows a comparison of the total sector and the comparator group.
The Company has shareholder return from the Companys shares for selected these benchmarks as they provide a good each of the last five financial years against the total indication of the Companys general performance.
shareholder return for the companies comprising the 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Source:Thomson Datastream RPS Group RPS Comparables FTSE All Share 50 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 51 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Directors emoluments and compensation part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
The following table sets out details of the emoluments The following disclosures on Directors remuneration and compensation received during the year by and share incentives have been audited as required by each Director.
Share options At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 24 May 2007, a resolution approving The tables on pages 59 and 60 set out details of the this report is to be proposed as an advisory audited share options and LTIPs held by each Director Ordinary Resolution.
A description of the terms and conditions of the scheme are held on pages 46-48.
This report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2007.
All share options comply with ABI headroom guidelines.
Pensions Signed on behalf of the Board Karen McPherson The Executive Directors of the Company earned Chairman of the Remuneration Committee pensions benefits in a company money purchase 6 March 2007 defined contribution scheme apart from Phil Williams whose pension benefits are in a Group Personal Pension plan defined contribution during the year.
Management & Governance 51 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 52 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee - Terms of Reference The Audit Committees terms of reference are: The Audit Committee has written terms of reference Committee composition, capabilities and meetings set out below.
These are also available on the Group The Committee shall comprise two Independent website.
It reviews the draft financial statements prior Non-Executive Directors with a quorum of two, to submission to the Board and monitors and makes appointed by the Board, all of whom possess an recommendations to the Board regarding the Groups adequate understanding of the financial management accounting policies and considers significant matters and reporting requirements of publicly quoted relating to internal control procedures.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost The Board will appoint a suitably qualified Director effectiveness of the external audit under review.
In other than the Chairman to chair the Committee.
The order to ensure the independence of its auditors is Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
not prejudiced in any way, the Board decided on 22 February 2002 that in future the auditors, BDO The Committee shall meet at least twice per Stoy Hayward LLP, will not, other than in exceptional annum and may invite to attend: the Chief Executive circumstances, be used to undertake any assignment and the Finance Director, representatives of the for the Group or any part of the Group not related external auditors and anyone else who may assist the to the audit, tax issues and the review of Interim Committee from time to time.
If the Executives believe exceptional Current membership: John Bennett Chairman circumstances do exist, the appointment of the and Roger Devlin.
The Company Secretary attends auditors for some other assignment needs to be all meetings.
specifically approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee keeps non-audit Relationship between the Committee and the Board services under review.
This policy applies to all the The RPS Group Plc Board: territories in which the Group operates.
The split nn reviews and agrees terms of reference put between audit and non-audit fees for the year under forward by the Audit Committee: review appears on page 76. nn considers changes to the terms of reference when The Company has in place formal whistleblowing recommended by the Committee: procedures which allow staff of the Company to, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties nn receives prompt summary reports after each in matters of financial reporting and other issues.
These meeting of the Committee: procedures are reviewed by the Audit Committee and nn is advised of matters for its attention at other are as follows: times as deemed necessary by the Committee: nn any employee wishing to raise a concern nn will refer matters to the Committee for its regarding internal controls, accounting or audit attention as necessary: matters may do so with the Senior Non-Executive nn reviews annually the Committees policies, Director, Roger Devlin, or the Company Secretary, practices and performance: and April Rigby: nn ensures that funds are available to the Committee nn any concerns raised will be treated in confidence, for external advice when needed, which shall be and will be investigated and any action proposed obtained via an Executive Director.
reported to the Audit Committee: and nn the person raising the concern need not disclose Committee authority their identity.
However, it would be of greater The Committee shall have the authority to consider benefit in investigating the situation if the person any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
raising the concern identifies himself or herself.
If their identity is disclosed their identity will not be The Committee shall have the authority to passed on by the person receiving the complaint request relevant information from any employee and without the individuals consent.
employees shall be expected to respond accordingly.
52 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 53 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 The Committee may take external professional Other risk management systems advice with respect to its responsibilities and duties.
The Committee shall consider the adequacy of The Committee shall have no executive other systems which help to manage the Groups responsibilities with respect to implementation of its exposures to damage or loss.
Nomination Committee - Terms of Reference Committee responsibilities and duties The Committee meets as required, but not less than once a year, and comprises three Independent NonFinancial matters Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary attends The Committee shall review accounting policies all meetings.
Its responsibilities include reviewing the and practices used by the Group, as well as Board structure, size and composition, nominating information to be published to the London Stock candidates to the Board when vacancies arise and Exchange prior to its submission to the Board.
recommending Directors who are retiring by rotation The Committee shall ensure that the to be put forward for re-election.
The Committee is information presented by the Group supports a currently recruiting an additional Independent Nonbalanced, clear and understandable view of its Executive Director: an external search consultancy is financial position and prospects.
being used in respect of this appointment.
External audit The Nomination Committees written terms of reference are set out below: The Committee shall make recommendations to the Board with respect to the appointment of Membership external auditors and will take steps necessary to The Committee shall be appointed by the Board and satisfy itself about the continuing independence of shall comprise of a Chairman and at least two other relevant firms.
The Committee shall review the level of A majority of members of the Committee shall external audit fees.
The Committee shall review the scope of, The Board shall appoint the Committee approach to and findings from external audit work.
In the absence of the Committee The Committee shall discuss with the external Chairman and or an appointed deputy, the remaining auditors any proposed changes in accounting members present shall elect one of their number to policies.
The Committee Chairman will liaise directly If a regular member is unable to act due to with the external auditors in order to ensure a absence, illness or any other cause, the Chairman of full understanding of any issues that arise from the Committee may appoint another Director of the their work and will report to the Committee Company to serve as an alternate member having accordingly.
due regard to maintaining the required balance of Risk management Executive and Independent Non-Executive members.
Internal controls Care should be taken to minimise the risk of any conflict of interest that might be seen to give rise The Committee shall review the means by which to an unacceptable influence.
Current membership: sound systems of internal control are maintained Brook Land Chairman, Roger Devlin and across the Group and shall review reports on the Karen McPherson.
Internal audit Secretary The Committee shall review at least annually the The Company Secretary shall act as the Secretary of internal audit function and will make appropriate the Committee and attend all meetings.
Management & Governance 53 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 54 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Quorum Duties The quorum necessary for the transaction of business The Committee shall: is two.
A duly convened meeting of the Committee at nn regularly review the structure, size and composition which a quorum is present shall be competent to of the Board and make recommendations to the exercise all or any of the authorities, powers and Board with regard to any adjustments that are discretions vested in or exercisable by the Committee.
deemed necessary: Frequency of meetings nn prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: The Committee shall meet not less than once a year and at such other times as the Board or any member nn be responsible for identifying and nominating for of the Committee shall require.
the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: Notice of meetings nn satisfy itself with regard to succession planning, Meetings of the Committee shall be summoned by that the processes and plans are in place with the Secretary of the Committee at the request of the regard to the Board and senior appointments: Chairman of the Committee.
nn assess and articulate the time needed to fulfil the Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each meeting role of Chairman, Senior Independent Director confirming the venue, time and date together with an and Non-Executive Director, and undertake an agenda of items to be discussed, shall be forwarded to annual performance evaluation to ensure that all each member of the Committee no fewer than five members of the Board have devoted sufficient working days prior to the date of the meeting.
As far time to their duties: as practical meetings shall be held before or after nn ensure on appointment that a candidate has meetings of the Main Board.
sufficient time to undertake the role and review Minutes of meetings his commitments: and nn ensure that the Secretary on behalf of the Board The Secretary shall minute the proceedings and has formally written to any appointees, detailing the resolutions of all Committee meetings, including the role and time commitments and proposing an names of those present and in attendance.
induction plan produced in conjunction with the Minutes of Committee meetings shall be Chairman.
circulated to all members of the Committee and to It shall also make recommendations to the Board: the Chairman of the Board and made available on request to other members of the Board.
nn with regard to the Chairman having assessed every three years whether the present incumbent Annual General Meeting shall continue in post, taking into account the The Chairman of the Committee shall attend the needs of continuity versus freshness of approach: Annual General Meeting prepared to respond to any nn as regards the reappointment of any Nonshareholder questions on the Committees activities.
Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her The terms and conditions of appointment of specified term of office: especially when they have Non-Executive Directors should be made available for concluded their second term: inspection by any person at the Companys registered nn for the continuation or not in service of any office and at the AGM.
Director who has reached the age of 70: 54 Management & Governance 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 55 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 nn concerning the re-election by shareholders Authority of any Director under the retirement by The Committee is authorised to seek any information rotation provisions in the Companys articles it requires from any employee of the Company in of association: order to perform its duties.
nn concerning any matters relating to the The Committee is authorised to obtain, at the continuation in office as a Director of any Companys expense, outside legal or other professional Director at any time: advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
nn concerning the appointment of any Director to Executive or other office other than to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive, the recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of: nn all the Non-Executive Directors regarding the position of Chief Executive: nn all the Directors regarding the position of Chairman.
nn detailing items that should be published in the Companys Annual Report relating to the activities of the Committee.
Management & Governance 55 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 16:00 Page 56 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Trusted Reputation Consistent Innovation Quality Results
