The directors report on corporate The size and certain aspects of the holds the remaining 49%, he was not governance composition of the board and of the audit, regarded as independent for the purposes SABMiller continues to be committed to the nomination and corporate accountability of the Combined Code.
highest standards of corporate governance.
and risk assurance committees are The board considers six directors The board strives to provide the right determined primarily by the terms of our Ms Doherty, Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, leadership, strategic oversight and control relationship agreement with Altria Group, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni and Mr Ramaphosa, environment to produce and sustain Inc. which was originally approved by to be independent.
Until 11 January 2006, delivery of value to all of the companys shareholders in 2002 as part of the Miller Mr Ramaphosa was a chairman of Johnnic shareholders, the majority of whom are transaction, and was amended, with Holdings Limited, which has a 9.5% equity resident in the USA, South Africa and the shareholders approval, in 2005 as part of interest in Tsogo Investment Holdings UK.
The board applies integrity, principles the Bavaria transaction, and by the terms of Limited and is the principal shareholder of of good governance and accountability our relationship agreement with BevCo LLC Durban Add-ventures Pty Ltd, which in turn throughout its activities and each director a holding company of the Santo Domingo owns 40% of Tsogo Sun KwaZulu Natal brings independence of character and Group, which was approved by shareholders Pty Ltd.
The other 60% of Tsogo Sun judgement to the role.
All of the members in 2005 as part of the Bavaria transaction.
KwaZulu Natal Pty Ltd is owned by Tsogo of the board are individually and collectively The agreement with Altria limits the size Sun Holdings Pty Ltd, in which the group aware of their responsibilities to the of the board to a maximum of 15 directors, has a 49% shareholding.
In the opinion of companys stakeholders.
of whom no more than two are to be the board, this minor relationship did not This report describes our approach executive directors, up to three are to be affect Mr Ramaphosas independence, to corporate governance, and explains non-executive directors nominated by Altria, and the board therefore regarded how we apply the Combined Code on up to two are to be non-executive directors Mr Ramaphosa as being independent Corporate Governance.
nominated by BevCo, and up to eight are to throughout the year under review.
be non-executive directors appointed by the Ms Doherty was appointed to the board 2.
Compliance with the Combined Code board.
The agreement with BevCo allows with effect from 1 April 2006.
For ease of Throughout the year ended 31 March 2006, BevCo to nominate up to two non-executive reference, directors independence status we complied with the Combined Code, directors for appointment to the board.
for Combined Code purposes is indicated except in the following respects: Altria and BevCo each have the right in the table on page 36. a at least half the board, excluding the under their respective agreements to The board continues to believe that its Chairman, were not independent for the nominate one director for appointment to overall composition remains appropriate, purposes of the Combined Code.
With the nomination committee although neither having regard in particular to the effect from the retirement of Mr Ning has exercised their right.
BevCo has the independence of character and integrity of Gaoning at the Annual General Meeting right to nominate one director for all of its directors, and the experience and in July 2005, the board satisfied the appointment to the corporate accountability skills which they bring to their duties.
The independence requirements of the and risk assurance committee although board also considers that the composition Combined Code, but ceased to do so it has not exercised this right, and Altria of the audit committee remains appropriate, with effect from 9 November 2005, has the right to nominate one director for given Altrias interest as the companys with the appointment to the board of appointment to the audit committee which largest single shareholder.
The board is Mr Santo Domingo Dvila and Mr Prez it has exercised.
satisfied that, having regard to the terms Dvila as non-executive directors who, For the determination of independence of the relationship agreement between the as nominees of the Santo Domingo for Combined Code purposes, the company and Altria, and to the experience Group, are not independent for the board considers six directors not to be and background in financial matters of the purposes of the Combined Code: independent: Mr Bible and Ms fide Lisi, as director nominated by Altria as a member b the audit committee did not consist they are nominees of Altria, the companys of the audit committee, the independence solely of independent directors, as the largest shareholder: Mr Santo Domingo and effectiveness of the audit committee committee includes Ms fide Lisi, an Altria Dvila and Mr Prez Dvila, as they are in discharging its functions in terms of the nominee, who is not independent for the nominees of the Santo Domingo Group, the Combined Code are considerably enhanced purposes of the Combined Code: companys second largest shareholder: Lord and not compromised.
Lastly, the board c the chairman of the nomination Renwick of Clifton, because of his position believes that Lord Renwicks diplomatic committee, although considered by the with JPMorgan Cazenove, an investment and business experience and his role as board to be independent in character bank which has in the past three years had vice-chairman of a leading investment bank and judgement, was not independent a material relationship with the company: position him extremely well to chair the for the purposes of the Combined Code: and the Chairman, Mr Kahn, who is a deliberations of the nomination committee and former Chief Executive of the company and in assessing potential candidates for d two directors were not able to attend has served continuously on the board, and nomination to the board.
Accordingly, the the 2005 Annual General Meeting due on the board of the companys predecessor, board believes that the departure from the to prior commitments.
since 1981 although he has been a director requirements of the Combined Code as of the company only since 1999.
The to the independence of the nomination 3.
Board of directors: composition Chairman is deemed not to be independent committee chairman is justified, particularly and independence under the Combined Code.
having regard to Lord Renwicks Our board consists of the Chairman For the first four months of the year independence of character and judgement.
Mr Kahn : six independent non-executive under review until the Annual General directors including Lord Fellowes, the Meeting in July 2005, Mr Ning Gaoning 4.
How the board operates Senior Independent Director : five nonserved on the board.
As Mr Ning was 4.1 Board meetings and attendance independent non-executive directors: and Chairman of China Resources Enterprise, The board met seven times during the two executive directors Mr Mackay, the Ltd, which has a 51% stake in China year, in addition to the AGM.
Directors Chief Executive, and Mr Wyman, the Chief Resources Snow Breweries Ltd, an attendance at board and committee Financial Officer.
associate in which SABMiller indirectly meetings and at the AGM is set out in the 35 Corporate governance Directors attendance 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006 and committee membership Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM J M Kahn 7 7 1 1 3 3 E A G Mackay 7 7 33 M I Wyman 7 7 23 G C Bible 6 7 N J fide Lisi 5 7 3 4 M E Doherty N A Lord Fellowes 77 44 44 11 33 P J Manser 77 44 44 11 33 J A Manzoni 77 44 33 M Q Morland 77 44 44 11 Ning Gaoning 03 C A Prez Dvila 22 N A M C Ramaphosa 67 33 Lord Renwick 7 7 1 1 A Santo Domingo Dvila 22 N A considered not independent for Combined Code purposes considered to be independent for Combined Code purposes appointments and resignations: Ms Doherty was appointed to the board with effect from 1 April 2006 Mr Ning Gaoning resigned from the board on 28 July 2005 Mr Prez Dvila and Mr Santo Domingo Dvila were appointed to the board with effect from 9 November 2005 table above.
The Altria nominees waived 4.3 Matters reserved for the board 4.5 Information and training their fees during the period under review.
There is a schedule of matters which are The board and its committees are supplied In the few instances where a director dealt with exclusively by the board.
These with full and timely information, including has not been able to attend board or include approval of financial statements: the detailed financial information, to enable committee meetings, any comments which groups business strategy: the annual capital directors to discharge their responsibilities.
he or she has had arising out of the papers expenditure plan: major capital projects: All directors have access to the advice to be considered at that meeting, have been major changes to the groups management of the Company Secretary.
Independent relayed in advance to the relevant chairman.
and control structure: material investments professional advice is also available to or disposals: risk management strategy: directors in appropriate circumstances, 4.2 Operation of the board social and environmental policy: and at the companys expense, and the The board sets the strategic objectives of treasury policies.
committees have been provided with the group, determines investment policies, The board governs through clearly sufficient resources to undertake their agrees on performance criteria and mandated board committees, accompanied duties.
None of the directors has sought delegates to management the detailed by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each independent external advice through the planning and implementation of those standing board committee has specific company.
The Company Secretary is objectives and policies in accordance with written terms of reference issued by the responsible for advising the board through appropriate risk parameters.
The board board and adopted in committee.
These are the Chairman on matters of corporate monitors compliance with policies and all available on the companys website or, governance.
achievement against objectives by holding on request, from the Company Secretary.
Following the appointment of new management accountable for its activity All committee chairmen report orally on the directors to the board, tailored induction through monthly and quarterly performance proceedings of their committees at the programmes are arranged which involve reporting and budget updates.
In addition, next meeting of the board.
industry-specific training, and include visits the board receives regular presentations, to the groups businesses and meetings with on a rotational basis, from the divisional 4.4 The roles of executive senior management, as appropriate.
New managing directors as well as from directors and non-executive directors directors are briefed on internal controls at of key group functions marketing, corporate The executive directors are responsible business unit level and are advised of the affairs and human resources, enabling it to for proposing strategy and for making legal and other duties they have as directors explore specific issues and developments and implementing operational decisions.
of a listed company as well as on relevant in greater detail.
Non-executive directors complement the company policies and governance-related Board and committee meetings are held skills and experience of the executive matters.
The company arranges for major in an atmosphere of intellectual honesty of directors, bring an independent judgement, shareholders to have the opportunity to purpose and integrity, requiring reporting and contribute to the formulation of meet new appointees.
The company is also of the highest standard by management strategy, policy and decision-making committed to the continuing development and direct, robust and constructive debate through their knowledge and experience of directors in order that they may build on among board and committee members.
of other businesses and sectors.
their expertise and develop an ever more 36 detailed understanding of the business and The Senior Independent Director is Lord respect of the board, the Chairman, the the markets in which group companies Fellowes.
Lord Fellowes is chairman of the Senior Independent Director, the individual operate.
Members of board committees are corporate accountability and risk assurance directors and each of the four committees encouraged to attend internal and external committee CARAC, and also serves on were reviewed.
Regarding the board briefings and courses on aspects of their the audit, remuneration and nomination committees, each of the committee respective committee specialities and committees, and is therefore well placed to chairmen expressed his views regarding the regular updates on relevant legal, regulatory, influence the governance of the company operation of his committee against its terms corporate governance and technical and meet his responsibilities as Senior of reference, and the performance and developments are presented to committee Independent Director.
Lord Fellowes serves effectiveness of that committee and these members and, as appropriate, to the board.
as an additional contact point for views were discussed in an open and shareholders should they feel that their constructive manner with recommendations 4.6 Outside appointments concerns are not being addressed through arising from the discussions being brought Non-executive directors may serve on a the normal channels.
Lord Fellowes is also forward to the board and the respective number of outside boards, provided they available to fellow non-executive directors, committees.
continue to demonstrate the requisite either individually or collectively, to discuss The results of the evaluation process commitment to discharge effectively their any matters of concern in a forum that does were reviewed by the Chairman, the Senior duties to SABMiller plc.
The nomination not include executive directors or the Independent Director, the Chief Executive committee keeps the extent of directors management of the company.
In the year and the Company Secretary, all of whom other interests under review to ensure under review, the Chairman hosted two concluded that the board and its that the effectiveness of the board is not meetings of non-executive directors, committees were operating effectively.
The board is satisfied that without the executive directors present.
The Chairman confirms that each of the Chairman and each of the non-executive Lord Fellowes has, in addition, held a Mr Bible, Ms fide Lisi, Lord Fellowes and directors commits sufficient time to the meeting of non-executive directors without Lord Renwick standing for re-election at fulfilment of their duties as Chairman and the presence of the Chairman.
this years AGM, continues to perform directors of the company, respectively.
effectively and to demonstrate commitment The board believes, in principle, in the 4.8 Board, committee and director to her his role.
The nomination committee benefit of executive directors accepting nonperformance evaluation had considered the nomination for the reexecutive directorship of other companies A formal evaluation of the performance election of Lord Fellowes and Lord Renwick in order to widen their experience and and effectiveness of the board and of with particular rigour, as both have served knowledge for the benefit of the company.
the audit, remuneration, nomination and as directors for six years with each of Accordingly, executive directors are corporate accountability and risk assurance Lord Renwick and Lord Fellowes excusing permitted to accept one external noncommittees is carried out each year, led by himself from the consideration of his own executive board appointment, subject to the Chairman, with input from the Senior nomination for re-election, and had been the agreement of the board, and are allowed Independent Director and in consultation satisfied that their re-appointment as to retain any fees received from that with other directors and the Company directors for a further term was warranted appointment.
The performance of the Chief having regard to their ongoing contribution Mr Mackay has been a non-executive Executive is reviewed by the remuneration and valuable experience on the board, director of Reckitt Benckiser plc since committee and this review is shared with which in the boards view enhanced their 25 February 2005. the board and the performance of the effectiveness and commitment to their roles.
Chief Financial Officer is reviewed by the Lord Renwick will serve for two years of the 4.7 Chairman, Chief Executive Chief Executive and confirmed by the three-year term, at which point he will either and Senior Independent Director remuneration committee and the board.
move to a basis of annual re-election or may The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Each non-executive directors performance stand down from the board.
are separate with responsibilities divided is evaluated by the Chairman, in between them.
This separation of consultation with the Senior Independent 4.9 Retirement of directors responsibilities is formalised in their Director, who in turn consults with the New directors are subject to election at the respective letters of appointment, approved executive directors and the Company first annual general meeting following their by the board.
There were no significant Secretary.
These assessments are appointment, and directors are subject to changes to the Chairmans external conducted against eight key performance retirement and re-election by shareholders commitments during the year.
criteria using a variable rating system.
The re-appointment of The Chairman is available to consult with The Chairmans performance is non-executive directors is not automatic.
In shareholders throughout the year, and, in evaluated against the same criteria by the general, the board has determined that it will the month prior to the AGM, he also invites Senior Independent Director, the executive ask a director reaching the age of 70 years major shareholders to meet with him to deal directors and the Company Secretary.
to stand for re-election annually or to retire.
The board is kept informed In a meeting of the Chairman, the of the views of shareholders through regular chairmen of each of the four standing board 4.10 The Company Secretary updates from the Chairman, the Company committees the audit, remuneration and The Company Secretary acts as secretary Secretary and the executive directors, nomination committees and the corporate to the board and its committees and he as well as through the inclusion in the accountability and risk assurance attended all meetings during the year board papers of relevant reports and committee and the Company Secretary, under review.
commentaries of, and exchanges with, the results of the performance and shareholders and investor bodies.
effectiveness evaluations conducted in 37 Corporate governance 5.
The boards committees and the since May 2002.
Mr Manser qualified as to review the effectiveness of the system executive committee a chartered accountant in 1964 and was for monitoring compliance with laws 5.1 The executive committee made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and regulations including the groups The board delegates responsibility for Accountants in 1976.
He has held senior bi-annual letters of representation determining and implementing the groups positions as Managing Director of Jardine and the results of managements business strategy and for managing the Fleming Hong Kong, Managing Director investigation and follow-up including group to the Chief Executive, Mr Graham of the Save and Prosper Group, Group disciplinary action of any instances Mackay, who is supported by the executive Chief Executive of Robert Fleming Holdings of non-compliance.
committee excom, which he chairs.
Excom Ltd and Chairman of Robert Fleming members are appointed by Mr Mackay.
The audit committee reports its activities Excom consists of the Chief Financial Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Ms fide and makes recommendations to the board.
Officer, Mr Wyman: divisional managing Lisi served on the committee throughout the During the year, the audit committee directors responsible for managing the year.
Mr Morland has been a member of the discharged its responsibilities as they groups regional hubs North America, committee from its first meeting on 13 April are defined in the committees terms of Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia, 1999.
Lord Fellowes was appointed to the reference, and has been engaged in and South Africa : directors of key group committee on 1 June 2001 and Ms fide Lisi ensuring that appropriate standards of functions marketing, corporate affairs, and was appointed on 4 September 2002.
The governance, reporting and compliance are human resources : and the Company chairman has recent and relevant financial being met.
It has also advised the board Secretary.
Excoms purpose is to support the experience, as does Ms fide Lisi who holds on issues relating to the application of Chief Executive in carrying out the duties US accounting qualifications and has accounting standards as they relate to delegated to him by the board, and, in that experience in treasury, finance and merger published financial information, in particular context, excom co-ordinates brand and and acquisition transactions.
Ms Doherty the transition to IFRS.
The committee has operational execution, delivers strategic plans was appointed to the audit committee with monitored the further progress which has and budgets for the boards consideration, effect from 1 April 2006, and brings further been made during the year in reviewing and and, through the Chief Executive, reports on relevant financial experience to the upgrading internal controls in the major these matters to the board.
committee, in light of her experience as business entities across the group, Excom also ensures that regular financial Group International Finance Director of positioning the group to achieve substantive reports are presented to the board, that Tesco PLC.
compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley standards effective internal controls are in place and The committee met four times during in due course although the company is not functioning, and that there is an effective the year.
The external auditors, the Chief an SEC registrant, and is not required to risk management process in operation Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and comply with Sarbanes-Oxley standards.
the Chief Internal Auditor attended each The Chief Internal Auditor has direct meeting by invitation.
Other members of the access to the audit committee, primarily 5.2 The disclosure committee management team attended as required.
The audit committee With effect from 1 July 2005, the board Under its terms of reference, the has access to subsidiary internal audit has constituted a disclosure committee, committees duties include: leadership.
The reports of the divisional consisting of the Chairman, the Chief to review, and challenge where audit committees are also available to the Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, a necessary, the annual financial audit committee.
designated non-executive director Lord statements and interim and preliminary During the year, the committee met with Fellowes, and the Company Secretary announcements before their submission the external auditors and Chief Internal or the Deputy Company Secretary.
to the board for approval Auditor without management being present.
The function of the disclosure committee, to examine and review the internal In addition to the review of its in accordance with the groups inside control environment and risk performance, terms of reference and information policy, is to assure compliance management systems within the group effectiveness led by the Chairman of the with the new Disclosure Rules introduced and review the groups statement on board, the committee critically reviewed its by the Financial Services Authority in the internal control systems prior to own performance during the year by means UK on 1 July 2005, and to ensure that the endorsement by the board of a questionnaire which each member of routes of communication between excom to review the independence, objectivity the committee completed independently.
members, the disclosure committee, the and effectiveness of the external The committee chairman then reviewed in-house legal team, the company auditors the responses and conducted one-to-one secretarial office and investor relations are to make recommendations to the discussions with members of the committee clear and provide for rapid escalation to board regarding the appointment, where he felt it was necessary.
The results the disclosure committee and key advisers re-appointment and removal of the of the self-assessment and any action of any decision regarding potential inside external auditors and to approve and plans arising were then reported to the information, so that the company is able recommend to the board the board after discussion with the Chairman to comply fully with its continuing remuneration and terms of engagement of the board.
obligations under the Disclosure Rules of the external auditors and the Listing Rules.
to review annually the effectiveness of 5.4 The nomination committee the internal audit function throughout During the year the nomination committee 5.3 The audit committee the group, with particular focus on the was chaired by Lord Renwick.
The During the year under review, the audit charter, annual work plans, activities, other members of the committee were committee was chaired by Mr Manser, staffing, organisational and reporting Mr Kahn, Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, and who has been chairman of the committee structure and status of the function Mr Manser.
During the year under review, 38 neither Altria nor BevCo exercised its right to companys management consults, amongst The audit committee is satisfied that, for request that one of its nominated directors others, Hay Consulting, Ernst & Young and the period under review, the independence be appointed as a member of the Towers Perrin, on a project basis.
More of the auditors has not been affected by the nomination committee.
details of the companys remuneration policy provision of non-audit services.
The committee is empowered to can be found in the remuneration report.
The committee has also implemented consider the composition of the board and a formal system for the review of the its committees.
It is asked to consider the 5.6 The corporate accountability and risk effectiveness of the external auditors.
retirement, appointment and replacement assurance committee CARAC This process involves the external auditors of directors, and is required to make Lord Fellowes chaired the committee presenting their proposed audit strategy appropriate recommendations to the board.
Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, followed by the output of their initial The nomination committee continued to Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Ramaphosa discussions with management.
At the audit evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and Mr Wyman served as members.
committee meeting in May, the external and experience of the board.
Appropriate Additionally, the Director of Corporate Affairs, auditors present the output of their detailed succession plans for the executive directors Ms Clark, met regularly with the chairman year-end work.
In making its assessment of and senior management were also kept of CARAC to discuss implementation and external auditor effectiveness, the committee under review.
reviews the audit engagement letters before Where non-executive vacancies arise, The objective of CARAC is to assist the signature by management, reviews the the committee uses the services of external board in the discharge of its responsibilities external auditors summary of group and consultants in order to identify suitable in relation to corporate accountability, subsidiary issues and managements candidates for the board to consider.
including corporate social responsibility, response to the summary, and conducts Candidates are short-listed for consideration corporate social investment and ethical an overall review of the effectiveness of the by the nomination committee on the basis of commercial behaviour.
More details of the external audit process and the external their relevant corporate or professional skills committees activities can be found in the auditors.
This review is facilitated by the and experience.
Executive directors are sustainable development review section use of templates that rate effectiveness considered for appointment to the board on of this report and the companys separate across 14 critical criteria.
the basis of their experience, skill and ability corporate accountability report.
to contribute to the group.
These policies and During the year, CARAC focused 7.
Relations with shareholders procedures were followed in the appointment on company-specific and industry issues During the year the company has continued of Ms Doherty as a non-executive director.
which are critical to protecting the to promote dialogue with its major The terms and conditions of appointment of companys licence to operate.
All shareholders non-executive directors are available from the review of the groups corporate responsibility were again encouraged to attend the AGM, Company Secretary on request.
programmes, the committee approved a which provides shareholders with the new sustainable development framework opportunity to ask questions of the board 5.5 The remuneration committee focused on 10 sustainable development and chairmen of all the board committees.
Since 1 April 2005, the committee has priorities.
In addition, it continued to monitor All resolutions were put to a poll at the consisted entirely of independent directors: progress on corporate accountability AGM in 2005 and at the Extraordinary Mr Morland Chairman, Lord Fellowes, through regular reports from across the General Meeting held on 9 October 2005 to Mr Manzoni and Mr Manser.
group, with areas of particular risk being approve the Bavaria transaction and related The committee is empowered by the the focus of separate presentations.
The voting at each meeting board to set short, medium and long-term was conducted electronically, with the remuneration for the executive directors.
Relationship with auditors results being published on the Regulatory More generally, the committee is responsible  were appointed News Service and on the companys for the assessment and approval of a broad as auditors of the company on 8 February website, and communicated directly to the remuneration strategy for the group and for 1999, subsequently becoming 20 largest shareholders after the meeting.
the operation of the companys share-based  LLP PwC in 2003.
Alongside the facilities offered by the incentive plans.
This includes determination The company has in place a formal Company Secretarys department, the of short and long-term incentives for policy on auditor independence and noncompany maintains a dedicated investor executives across the group.
audit services, with which the external relations function.
Reporting to the Director During the year the remuneration auditors are required to comply, to ensure of Corporate Affairs, the investor relations committee has implemented its strategy of that the independence of the auditors is not team builds and maintains long-term ensuring that employees and executives are impaired by the nature of non-audit work.
relationships with institutional investors rewarded for their contribution to the groups As a reassurance, PwC confirms in a formal and analysts on the basis of fundamental operating and financial performance at levels report to the audit committee that processes business value driver analysis.
In partnership which take account of industry, market and to ensure compliance with this policy are in with our corporate and divisional country benchmarks.
To ensure that the place, and that these processes are management teams and within the scope executives goals are aligned to those of the monitored regularly.
This report includes a of regulatory constraints, investor relations company, share incentives are considered statement that, in its opinion, PwC believes gives presentations on regional business to be critical elements of executive incentive that the nature of its non-audit services has outlooks and strives to ensure that these are pay.
During the year, the committee not impaired the audit of the company.
understood across the global equity markets engaged the services of consultants, Kepler Note 3 to the financial statements has a in subsequent one-to-one meetings with Associates and Mercer Human Resource breakdown of non-audit services provided investors.
Occasional business site visits Consulting Mercer.
At levels below the to the group by the auditors for the year are also arranged.
Dialogue on socially companys executive committee, the under review.
responsible investment is handled by the 39 Corporate governance Head of Corporate Accountability in the Risk and the board of directors ongoing monitoring of significant risks corporate affairs department, who The directors are ultimately responsible for and internal and external environmental undertakes focused briefings with the groups risk management system and factors that may change the groups interested investors and stakeholders.
The risk risk profile In addition to scheduled managementmanagement system is designed to led programmes in which operating manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Group internal audit provide objective executives interact with investors and failure to achieve business objectives, and assurance as to group-wide compliance analysts, the Chairman has, independently, there is an ongoing process in place for with the risk management policy.
initiated formal contact with all shareholders identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring In addition to excoms twice yearly or their representatives holding more than and reporting on the significant risks faced reports to the board on key risks, there is 1% of the issued share capital of the by individual group companies and by the a process of regular reporting to the board company.
The purpose of this contact is group as a whole.
This process has been in through the audit committee on the status to enable the Chairman to address any place for the year under review up to and of the risk management process.
queries shareholders may have regarding including the date of approval of the annual Key annual reports include those that the governance of the company or nonreport and accounts.
Principal risks facing identify, rank, monitor and measure operational aspects of company strategy.
the group are set out in the Directors strategic, operational and financial risks in It is also, more broadly, designed to give the Report on page 46. each division and on a group basis.
board a greater awareness of shareholder concerns.
Alongside the Chairman, the Executive committee 9.
Internal control Senior Independent Director is also available The executive committee excom, which The groups systems of internal control are to discuss issues with shareholders and is chaired by the Chief Executive, and designed and operated to support the views expressed will be communicated by comprises senior SABMiller plc executives, identification and management of risks the Chairman to the board.
As part of this has specific responsibility as the risk affecting the group and the business initiative, the Chairman offers to meet with management committee for the system environment in which it operates.
As such, significant shareholders in the month before of risk management.
Excom reviews the they are subject to continuous review as the AGM specifically to deal with issues groups significant risks twice yearly, circumstances change and new risks emerge.
arising from the annual report and notice reporting to the board on material Key features of the systems of internal of AGM.
All non-executive directors of the changes to these risks and the associated control are: company are invited to participate in this mitigating actions.
the risk management system described process.
Comment on the annual report is In accordance with Turnbull Guidance, in the preceding section conveyed through the audit and remuneration reviews on the effectiveness of the risk written policies and procedures within committees and the Company Secretary management system were carried out by each business, which are detailed in to the board.
the risk management committee in April policy manuals, clearly defined lines and September 2005 and in April 2006. of accountability and delegation of 8.
Risk management authority, and comprehensive reporting System enhancements Enterprise-wide risk management and analysis against approved standards The groups risk management system is The excom views the careful and and budgets subject to regular review to ensure full appropriate management of risk as a key group treasury operations which control compliance with the requirements of the management role.
Managing business risk and reduce exposure to interest rate, Combined Code on corporate governance to deliver opportunities is a key element of counterparty, liquidity and currency and the Turnbull Guidance on internal all our business activities.
This is undertaken transaction risks and co-ordinate the control and is designed to deliver improved using a practical and flexible framework activities of group companies in this value to the operating businesses.
which provides a consistent and sustained area.
Treasury policies, risk limits and The comprehensive programme, method of implementing the companys monitoring procedures are reviewed commenced in 2004, to enhance the values.
The business risks, which may be regularly by the audit committee on groups enterprise-wide risk management strategic, operational, reputation, financial or behalf of the board framework of prudent and effective controls, environmental, are understood and visible.
minimisation of operating risk by is continuing to make good progress.
The business context determines in each ensuring that the appropriate Key enhancements to date have included: situation the level of acceptable risk and infrastructure, controls, systems and the integration of risk management into controls.
We continue to seek improvement people are in place throughout the the strategic and business planning in the management of risk by sharing best businesses.
Key policies employed in process practice throughout the organisation.
managing operating risk involve the roll out of a comprehensive risk Key features of the groups system of segregation of duties, transaction management training programme across risk management are: authorisation, monitoring, financial and the group group statements on strategic direction, managerial reporting further refined and focused risk reporting ethics and values business resumption planning, including greater alignment of risk and insurance clear business objectives and business preventative and contingency measures, activities principles back-up capabilities and the purchase an established risk policy of catastrophe insurance to ensure an ongoing process for identification ongoing product and service delivery and evaluation of significant risks to the under adverse conditions.
achievement of business objectives management processes in place to mitigate the significant risks to an acceptable level 40 Assurance on compliance with systems 10.
Internal audit of internal control and on their effectiveness Internal audit functions operated in all of the is obtained through regular management groups principal business units in the period reviews, reporting to the audit committee, under review, reporting to local senior control self-assessment, internal audit finance management with direct access to reviews and quality assurance described in local audit committees.
Under the global section 10 below, testing of certain aspects internal audit structure, implemented in of the internal financial control systems by 2004, the local and regional audit functions the external auditors during the course of have direct interface with the group internal their statutory examinations and regular audit function through the chief internal reports to the audit committee by the auditor.
The internal audit activities are external auditors.
The groups various performed either by teams of appropriate, divisional audit committees consider the qualified and experienced employees, results of these reviews regularly, to confirm or through the engagement of external the appropriateness and satisfactory nature practitioners upon specified and agreed of these systems, while ensuring that terms with equivalent access.
The Chief breakdowns involving material loss, if Internal Auditor prepares formal reports for any, together with remedial actions, have each audit committee meeting as to the been reported to the appropriate boards consolidated activities and findings of the of directors.
At the half year and at the year end the Following the implementation of a divisional managing directors and finance centrally co-ordinated functional structure directors of all the groups operations and a standardised group-wide internal are required to submit formal letters of audit methodology in 2004, a formal quality representation on controls, compliance assurance programme has been introduced and notification of continuing or potential within the global function.
Accordingly, operational, financial and legal risks or detailed quality review assessments are claims.
These letters form the subject of performed with regard to the local and reports to the audit committee.
These regional internal audit teams, to ensure letters, including the review described compliance with quality and performance above, cover all subsidiary companies measures defined under a newly developed but do not cover associates except for global functional effectiveness matrix.
This Tsogo Sun, which does submit letters of process provides a basis for an annual representation or joint ventures.
Directors, review of the effectiveness of the global executives, key managers and professionals internal audit function, resulting in a formal also make annual written declarations of report prepared by the Chief Internal interests and are obliged to report without Auditor to the audit committee to support delay any potential or actual conflicts of the committees annual requirement formally interest which may arise.
to assess the effectiveness of internal audit.
The directors are responsible for the In addition, periodic effectiveness reviews groups systems of internal control and for by independent external consultants reviewing their effectiveness.
The board has are utilised.
conducted a review of the effectiveness of The audit committee has satisfied itself the groups internal controls covering all that adequate, objective internal audit material controls, including financial, assurance standards and procedures exist operational and compliance controls and within the group, and that continuous risk management systems in place improvement in the quality and objectivity of throughout the year under review.
As part the global internal audit function is a primary of the integration of the Bavaria group of ongoing objective of the department.
companies, which became part of the group early in the second half of the year under 11.
Whistleblowing measures review, work is under way to embed All employees in most subsidiaries within systems, controls and procedures within the group have the opportunity to make the Bavaria group to bring them into full confidential disclosures about suspected alignment with those in place throughout impropriety and wrongdoing.
The continued the rest of the group.
The systems of functionality of the system has been verified.
internal control are designed to manage, The Company Secretary, in consultation rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to with the Chief Internal Auditor, decides achieve business objectives and can provide on the appropriate method and level of reasonable, but not absolute, assurance investigation.
The audit committee is notified against material misstatement or loss.
In of all disclosures made and progress in reviewing these, the board has taken into resolution and the results of investigation, account the results of all the work carried and actions taken, are reported to it.
The out by internal and external auditors to audit audit committee has the power to request and review the activities of the group.
further information, conduct its own inquiries, or order additional action as it sees fit.
