The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p33 Corporate Governance Statement The Company and the Group are committed to high The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper standards of corporate governance and the Board is management of the Group.
Where it is considered accountable to the Companys shareholders for good appropriate, training is made available to directors and corporate governance.
This statement describes how the training needs are assessed as part of the evaluation relevant principles of corporate governance are applied by procedure of the Board referred to below.
Throughout the year the Company has been the directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is in compliance with the provisions set out in the Revised set out on page 38.
The Board has formally adopted a Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, other which is available to shareholders on request to the than A.
3.2 relating to the composition of the Board and Secretary at the registered office and which is also A.
3.3 relating to the Senior Independent Director.
available on the Companys website at www.
All directors have access to the advice and services of Rule A.
3.2 requires at least half the Board, not counting the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Chairman, to comprise nonexecutive directors that Board procedures are followed and that applicable determined by the Board to be independent.
For the rules and regulations are complied with.
The Secretary period from the appointment of Sir Julian Horn-Smith to ensures that the directors take independent professional the role of Chairman of the Board on 1 August 2006 to the advice as required at the expense of the Company when appointment to the Board of Ms R Markland on 13 it is judged necessary to discharge their responsibilities as September 2006 this ratio was not maintained.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary a number of changes to the Board during the year which is a matter for the Board as a whole.
made compliance difficult to achieve in this short period.
With the appointment of Ms R Markland on 13 September The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, 2006 the Company is fully compliant with the rule.
reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major Rule A.
3.3 requires the Board to appoint one of the acquisition opportunities and reviewing regular reports to independent non-executive directors to the role of Senior shareholders.
In the year under review the Board met on Independent Director.
Mr L C N Bury, who fulfilled this role, nine occasions, six such meetings being formal board retired from the Board on 2 March 2006.
Sir Julian Hornmeetings and on three occasions at meetings of the Smith, who joined the Board in March 2006 and became Board called at short notice and held by telephone to Chairman on 1 August 2006, fulfilled the role for the period consider acquisition opportunities.
All directors in office from Mr L C N Burys retirement to his appointment as at the time attended all of these Board meetings other Chairman on 1 August 2006.
On 12 September 2006, Mr than on two occasions when Ms T Ingram was unable D H Clayton was appointed to the role and so for a short to attend the formal board meetings and two occasions period from 1 August 2006 to 11 September 2006 the role when Ms T Ingram and Mr A J Hobson were unable to was vacant.
attend the meetings called on short notice.
On one occasion Mr G S Berruyer was unable to attend a meeting THE WORKINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES called on short notice.
The Board The Board currently comprises the non-executive The non-executive directors have a particular Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by directors and five other independent non-executive the executive directors are fully considered.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive Executive are quite distinct from one another and are appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are clearly defined in written terms of reference distributed by the Secretary to all directors in advance of for each role adopted by the Board and available to Board meetings.
The members of the Board have shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered evaluated the performance of the Board, its committees office and on the Companys website at www.
and individual members at meetings and also through the completion of detailed questionnaires.
These are The directors biographies appear on pages 27 and 28. reviewed and considered by the Chairman and by the These demonstrate that the directors have a range of Board as a whole.
In the year under review, the experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring questionnaires indicated no areas of concern.
independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p34 The current Board complies with the main principle in Remuneration Committee paragraph A.
3 of the Combined Code in that it includes a The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by balance of executive and non-executive directors so that Mr T C W Ingram and its other members are the other no individual or small group of individuals can dominate independent non-executive directors, Mr D H Clayton, the Boards decision taking.
Mr A J Hobson, Ms T Ingram and Ms R Markland.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee meets at New members of the Board undergo a full, formal and least twice a year.
In the year under review, two meetings tailored induction to the Board.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith, of the Committee were held and all members in office at who was appointed to the Board in March 2006, has the time attended all the meetings other than Ms T Ingram undertaken such an induction process since his appointment who was unable to attend one meeting.
Each of the and Ms R Markland who joined the Board in September Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by invitation of the 2006 has also undertaken such a process.
Committee, attend meetings except when his own performance and remuneration are under review but The Chairman neither is a member of the Committee.
The Committee is The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board responsible for making recommendations to the Board, ensure that this role is quite distinct from that of the Chief within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys Executive and are set out on the Companys website at framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors The Chairman of the Board has held meetings with the including share options, performance share awards, non-executive directors without the executive directors.
In performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and addition, the non-executive directors have met without the compensation payments.
Remuneration consultants Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans advise the Committee.
The Committee also monitors performance.
The Chairman also ensures that shareholder remuneration for those senior executives below Board communication and responses are discussed at each level.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have non-executive directors.
The Secretary acts as secretary access to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Committee.
to the Chairman or the Secretary.
Details of the Companys policies on directors The Senior Independent Director remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report on The Board has appointed Mr D H Clayton to the role of pages 39 to 50, together with further details of the Senior Independent Director.
This role provides a point of Remuneration Committee.
contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
He is Audit Committee available to consult with shareholders and also chairs The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr A J Hobson.
meetings of the non-executive directors without the Its other members are independent non-executive Chairman present.
directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Mr D H Clayton and Ms R Markland who joined the Committee on 1 January COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 2007.
Mr A J Hobson is a Fellow of the Institute of Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and is of the Groups affairs.
These Committees are the considered by the Board to have the recent and relevant Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the financial experience required for the provisions of the Nomination Committee.
Details of all these Committees Combined Code.
The other members of the Committee are set out below.
Whilst the Board notes that a number of have a wide range of business experience, which is independent non-executive directors are members of more evidenced in their biographies on page 27 and 28.
The than one Board Committee, it is considered that Board makes appointments to the Committee and the membership is appropriate in the light of the Boards Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
policy that all independent non-executive directors are Full induction training is provided for new members and given the opportunity to take part in the discussions of additional training is provided as and when required.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are reviewed annually and are available on request from the Secretary at the registered office of the Company or on the Companys website at www.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p35 Corporate Governance Statement continued The main duties of the Committee, set out in its terms of Internal controls and risk management.
The Committee reference are to: considers reports from internal audit on the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control Make recommendations on the appointment and procedures, together with observations from the external remuneration of external auditors and to monitor their auditors.
The Committee monitored the effectiveness of performance: the Groups risk management process, which considers Approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services the key risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the provided by the external auditors to ensure that the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups controls to independence of the auditors is not compromised: manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
Review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies Internal audit.
Internal audit activities and responsibilities and on the control and mitigation of its financial and are provided by KPMG, under an outsourcing business risks: agreement.
The Groups Risk Officer provides oversight Review the nature and scope of the work to be and coordination of internal audit but internal audit performed by the external and internal auditors, the has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee results of their audit work and of the response of and its Chairman.
management: and Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Companys internal control environment, including the Board on the extent to which systems of internal its whistleblowing procedures.
control are effective and to provide independent and objective assurance that the processes by which Meetings significant risks are identified, assessed and managed The Committee invites executive directors, management, are appropriate and effectively applied.
The internal external and internal auditors to attend meetings as it audit plan which covers the scope, authority and considers appropriate for the matters being discussed.
resources of the function is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved Work of the Committee by the Audit Committee.
In the financial year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions and reported its conclusions to the Board.
It The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit met privately with the internal and external auditors team was reviewed and approved, the reports of results without executives present.
It also met with executive received and the responses of management management and executive directors.
The plan set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the in line with expectations.
financial year as follows: External audit.
The Audit Committee is responsible for Financial reporting.
During the year the Committee the development, implementation and monitoring of the reviewed the interim and annual financial statements.
Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns The Committee received a report from the external oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports requirements to the Audit Committee and day to day were based on a full audit Annual Report and a high responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
level review Interim Report respectively.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, The Committee has also advised the board on the Audit Committee reviewed: accounting policies, disclosure and controls.
It has - The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit been pivotal in considering the disclosure requirements plan and any variations: of IFRS, including IFRS policies and the Restatement of - The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors Financial Information for the year ended 30 September in their handling of key accounting and audit 2006, under IFRS and comparatives.
judgements: and - The content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p36 The Committee is confident that the objectivity and Nomination Committee independence of the auditors is not impaired in any way The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of by reason of their non-audit work.
The Committee has the Board, Sir Julian Horn-Smith and consists of the adopted controls to ensure that the independence of the Chairman and the five independent non-executive external audit process is not compromised and that, in the directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Mr D H Clayton, Mr A J provision of non-audit services, the objectivity and Hobson, Ms T Ingram and Ms R Markland.
In the absence independence of the external auditors is safeguarded.
of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee is chaired by These controls include the continued monitoring of the the Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination independence and effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee meets not less than twice a year.
Two scope, fee, performance and independence of the external meetings of the Committee took place in the year under auditor is considered annually by the Audit Committee, review at which all the members of the Committee in office together with an evaluation of whether the external audit at the time were present.
In addition, audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement of independence The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of from the external auditors is received each year.
In relation matters relating to the composition of the Board and its to the provision of non-audit services, executive committees including proposing candidates for management has the discretion, subject to certain appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance financial limitations, to obtain taxation services from the and structure and considering issues of succession.
auditors without prior reference to the Audit Committee Recruitment consultants are used to assist in the process.
subject to regularly appraising the Audit Committee of the The Nomination Committee is also responsible for an amount and nature of fees for such services.
Other nonannual review of the membership of the Board, evaluating audit services may be undertaken by the external auditors, the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the subject to all projects expected to cost in excess of an Board and advising the Board on any areas where further amount set by the Audit Committee being approved in recruitment may be appropriate.
It also considers the advance either by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or succession planning of the Group for key executive by the full Audit Committee depending on the expected personnel at Board level and below.
The Secretary cost of the project.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee acts as secretary to the Committee.
may require that such projects are put out to tender to a number of firms.
It is the policy of the Committee to RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS require acquisition due diligence be undertaken by firms Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
other than the auditors unless conflicts of interest for The Chairmans Introduction and Operating and Financial comparable firms make this impractical.
Further details of Review on pages 3 to 24 include a detailed review of the fees paid to the auditors are set out on page 64. business and future developments in relation to it.
A full Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders In the year to 30 September 2006 the audit fee was who so wish, although shareholders have been given the 1,732,000 including 0.3m of non recurring fees in opportunity to receive Summary Financial Statements in connection with the Groups conversion to IFRS.
The place of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, also Company also has a website www.
com which perform non-audit services for the Group principally tax contains up to date information on Group activities and advice over and above the external audit.
The fees in published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with relation to these services were 1,417,000 which was individual institutional shareholders and there are attributable to taxation services and compliance work.
The presentations to analysts after the Companys Audit Committee keeps the ratio of audit to non-audit fees announcement of the year-end and half-year results.
At under review and has determined that the ratio of non-audit each Board meeting, the Board receives an update on fees other than those relating to taxation paid to the presentations to investors and any communication from auditors and the audit fee should not exceed 1:1.
The shareholders to ensure that directors, both executive and Committee believes that the Company receives particular non-executive, have an understanding of their views.
benefit from tax advice provided by its auditors given their wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and the very The Board uses the annual general meeting to international nature of the Group.
communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The resolutions to be As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 6 March 2007 activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 115 to 118. recommended to the Board that the external auditors are reappointed.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p37 Corporate Governance Statement continued INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT A whistleblowing telephone hotline service has been The Board is responsible for the operation and introduced in many operating companies in the Group effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls including all those in the UK and US allowing employees and risk management.
There is an ongoing process for to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
The Audit faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for Committee receives regular reports on any matters raised the year under review and up to the date of approval of through this service and monitors its use throughout the this report.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and Group.
Similar arrangements are being considered for complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
The internal Group companies in other jurisdictions subject to control systems are designed to meet the Groups compliance with local legal requirements.
particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not Quality and integrity of personnel absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by through high recruitment standards and subsequent the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an Board.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to essential part of the control environment.
review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include discussions with management on significant risk Management structure areas identified and the review of plans for, and results The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each from, internal and external audits.
executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of organisation structure exists within which individual the risk assessment process to the Board.
The Board then responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The draws its collective conclusion as to the effectiveness of management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the the system of internal control.
The key procedures, which Chief Executive and the executive directors.
The conduct the directors have established with a view to providing of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local effective internal control, are as follows: executive management teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and performance of their Indication of business risks businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and success of the Group are an integral part of the internal sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group control environment.
Such processes, which are reviewed policies and guidelines.
and improved as necessary, include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the regular monitoring of Internal audit performance and control over capital expenditure and The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by acquisitions.
The Company has formed a Risk Committee KPMG to review compliance with procedures and assess consisting of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts the Group Risk Officer, members of the Group finance team, as a service to the businesses by assisting with the the Secretary and representatives of the Group operating continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
A representative of KPMG, the internal auditors, Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and may attend meetings of the Committee by request.
these are followed up by the Audit and Risk Committees to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
The Committee reviews all business activities to identify the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Budgetary process Group, undertakes risk review audits and considers the A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with scope and results of audits undertaken by KPMG.
It annual budgets for all operating subsidiaries being identifies significant internal control failings and approved by respective subsidiary boards.
Subsequently weaknesses, if any, and agrees remedial action on such the combined budget is subject to consideration and matters.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit approval by the Board.
Through the work of the Audit and Risk provide the directors with relevant and timely information Committees, the Board is provided with a balanced required to monitor financial performance.
assessment of the significant risks associated with the Groups operations and the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p38 Investment appraisal including acquisitions Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels report confirms that: regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant development programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject audit information of which the Companys auditors to internal guidelines governing investment appraisal are unaware: and criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and The director has taken all the steps that he or she post-acquisition management.
ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS ON COMPLIANCE and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE of that information.
Other than as referred to at page 33 above, the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
GOING CONCERN The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence By Order of the Board for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
M J Robinson STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Secretary Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 18 January 2007 statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
