THE COMBINED CODE Chairman and the Board for all aspects of management Corporate We have complied with the Combined Code on of the Group including: the preparation and evaluation Corporate Governance issued by the Financial of strategic options for recommendation to the Board: Governance Reporting Council throughout the year, with two the implementation of agreed strategic objectives: Report exceptions.
The first relates to the proportion of the preparation of long-term financial plans and the Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board annual budget: the achievement of financial objectives provision A.
3.2, and the second relates to the and ensuring that all key functions are adequately position of the Chairman, Sir Brian Stewart, as resourced and that the Groups organisation structure, Chairman of another FTSE 100 company, Standard Life policies and practices are aligned with the Groups plc provision A.
We cover these points in more business objectives.
The Chief Executive also chairs detail in the reports from the Nominations Committee the Executive Management Group, which comprises and from the Senior Independent Director below.
all Executive Directors together with heads of our main business areas and Group functions.
THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the overall leadership BOARD MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES of the Group and for determining our long-term We have eight scheduled Board meetings each year, objectives and strategy.
In addition to the Chairman, including one full days strategy discussion.
We agree it comprises the Chief Executive and three further in advance a schedule of items to be brought to the Executive Directors together with eight Non-Executive Board throughout the year, and the Chairman sets the Directors.
We have included brief biographies of each agenda for each Board meeting after discussion with member of the Board on pages 14 and 15.
Since our the Chief Executive and other Directors.
Each meeting last report, the main changes to the Board have been will usually include a report from the Chief Executive the appointment of Brian Wallace as a Non-Executive covering issues such as recent trading and current Director on 1 January 2007 and the proposed issues facing the business and all Directors receive appointment of Bridget Macaskill as a Non-Executive a monthly report on the performance of the Group Director.
Both Brian Wallace and Philip Bowman and its individual businesses for the month in question have now been appointed to the Audit Committee.
At different points in the year, In addition we have announced that Dr. Neville Bain the agenda will also include financial items for will retire at our Annual General Meeting.
example approval of the Groups long-term strategic We have a formal schedule of matters specifically plan and annual budget or quarterly financial reviews reserved for the Board, for example: approval of annual together with regular reports on other subjects, operating and capital expenditure budgets: approval of for example safety and environment, corporate preliminary announcements and published report and responsibility and investor relations.
The agenda will accounts and dividend policy.
The Board also sets the typically also include a number of special items Groups capital authorisation and control procedures.
for example a particular project or a one off report We have four permanent Board Committees: that the Board has requested.
Some meetings are held Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Treasury.
Each in the Group office in Edinburgh, but others are held of these Committees has formal terms of reference, at our breweries or offices elsewhere, which provide which are available on our website www.
scottishan opportunity to tour production sites, meet local newcastle.
We have included a report from the management and visit customers.
In addition, Chairman of each of these Committees below.
we convene special meetings when necessary, for example to review major transactions.
This year, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE unusually, we held six such meetings to approve, There is a clear written division of responsibilities amongst other things, the UK distribution joint venture between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The with Kuehne and Nagel and the acquisition of the Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board Fosters brand for Europe.
Since these meetings usually including: overseeing the overall Board structure, have to be planned to meet transaction deadlines, the appointment of the Chief Executive and the they are held outside our normal meetings schedule approval of all other Board appointments on the and sometimes at short notice.
It is therefore not advice of the Nominations Committee: Board practicable for all Directors to be present, although procedures and processes: and promoting the Groups all receive appropriate papers for the meeting and interests with third parties, including investors, it is our policy for the Chairman or Chief Executive government organisations, industry bodies, business to speak to each individual Director who is not able partners and the community at large.
The Chairmans to be present in order to ensure that their views can role envisages a time commitment of the equivalent be expressed at the meeting.
of around 10 full days each month.
The following table shows the number of The role of the Chief Executive is to lead the Board and Committee meetings held during 2006, management of S&N in order to deliver maximum together with individual attendance by Directors.
He is responsible to the Board Special 8 meetings Board incl.
Board Meetings Audit Nominations Remuneration Treasury strategy day 6 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings Sir Brian Stewart 8 5 3 Dr N C Bain 8 4 4 4 4 1 Mr P Bowman 8 1 2 out of 3 Mr J M Dunsmore 8 4 Mr A G Froggatt 8 6 4 Sir Angus Grossart 8 3 3 4 4 Mr E J V Hartwall 7 4 2 Mr I G McAllister 81434 Mr I P McHoul 8 5 4 Mr J R Nicolson 8 0 Mr H V L Therman 8 5 Sir Ian Robinson 8343 Notes: 1 Joined Audit Committee 28 March 2006 16 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 We have an agreed procedure for Directors to take NOTIFIABLE INTERESTS Corporate independent professional advice if necessary at the As at 20 February 2007, the Company has been Companys expense.
We also have an appropriate level notified of the following interests representing Governance of insurance cover in respect of legal action against 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital Report Directors and Officers and they also benefit, subject of the Company: to certain exceptions, from a deed of indemnity.
continued A copy of the deed of indemnity is available for Hartwall Capital Ltd 10.2% inspection at our Registered Office.
The Company Barclays Plc 7.0% Secretary, Peter Kennerley, is responsible for ensuring Capital Group Companies 3.9% that Board procedures are followed and is in regular Trevor Hemmings family interests 3.8% contact with all Directors.
Legal & General Group Plc 3.0% INDUCTION, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT All Directors receive a full induction on joining the PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Board.
This is tailored for the individual Director During the year we carried out a full performance concerned and includes presentations on our evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each businesses, structures and procedures, meetings individual Director.
with business and functional heads and visits to We conducted the review of the Board and its our main sites.
We also offer major shareholders Committees internally, by means of interviews with an opportunity to meet new Directors.
members of the Board and others using a structured Our approach to training and continuing questionnaire aligned with the Combined Code.
development for Directors recognises that all This was carried out by the Company Secretary members of the Board and particularly our Nonand the Head of Group Review and Audit, under the Executives have extensive experience in senior posts supervision of the Chairman.
The resulting report was in major businesses.
Our focus is therefore to ensure then presented to the Board.
Overall, there was a that Directors regularly refresh their knowledge of our general consensus among the Directors that the Board markets and businesses as well as keeping abreast functions effectively and that improvements had been with external events, for example regulatory made since the previous year.
This we do through our monthly identify a number of areas where we believe there is performance reports, Board papers and presentations room for further improvement.
One example is that from management and advisers.
We also encourage we have agreed that the Board should conduct a more Directors to manage their own development by extensive review of the requirements and resources informing them of and recommending appropriate at senior management level outside the context external courses or seminars.
of the annual remuneration review and formal senior succession planning.
We also believe that we can SHAREHOLDERS improve the process by which major projects are We speak to institutional shareholders regularly presented to the Board.
These areas will require throughout the year other than during close periods.
further work and we have committed to presenting Our Directors receive regular reports on the views proposals to the Board in June.
In addition to these of our major shareholders, and the views of City broader issues, we have agreed a number of more analysts, including a summary of reactions to our procedural action points, ranging from the format published results.
of Board papers to the planning of visits.
We also encourage communications with private The Chairman evaluated the performance of the shareholders and welcome their participation at Chief Executive and Non-Executives: other Executive shareholder meetings.
All Board members attend the Directors were appraised by the Chief Executive under Annual General Meeting and, in particular, the Senior our Performance Development Potential appraisal Independent Director and the Chairman of the Audit, process, which is used for all senior management.
Remuneration and Nominations Committee are Ian McAllister, the Senior Independent Director, available to answer questions.
We send notice of the led a formal evaluation of the performance of the Annual General Meeting to shareholders at least 20 Chairman, as described in the paragraph on Nonworking days before the meeting and publish details Executive Directors below.
As a result of these reviews, of the proxy votes for and against each resolution, the Board confirms that it is satisfied that each of the together with abstentions, after the result of hand Directors who are proposed for re-election at the AGM votes.
We also post details on our website continues to demonstrate the necessary commitment www.
You will find details to the Company and to be fully effective members of our established share dealing service on page 59. of the Board.
AGM SPECIAL BUSINESS AUDIT COMMITTEE Details of the special business to be proposed Report by the Committee Chairman, at the AGM are contained in the Circular Letter to Dr Neville Bain shareholders accompanying the Companys Report The current members of the Committee, who are all and Accounts.
Special business comprises the increase Independent Non-Executive Directors, together with of aggregate Non-Executive Directors remuneration, their dates of appointment to the Committee are: amendment of the Articles of Association to allow Dr Neville Bain 26 June 1997: appointed Chairman on inter alia communication with shareholders by 2 December 1998, Ian McAllister 26 September 1996, electronic means, renewal of the Directors allotment Sir Ian Robinson 29 September 2005, Philip Bowman authority, permission to make non pre-emptive issues 28 March 2006 and Brian Wallace 25 January 2007. of ordinary shares in limited circumstances, and Brian Wallace and I have, in the view of the Board, renewal of the authority for the market purchase the appropriate level of recent and relevant financial of Company shares.
experience as required by the Combined Code.
Mark Stevens, Assistant Company Secretary, acts SHARE CAPITAL as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Finance Details of share movements during the year, Director and the Head of Group Review and Audit including shares issued and options granted under attend by invitation, as does Henrik Therman, the employee share schemes and options held by to assist the Committee on issues relating to BBH.
the Scottish & Newcastle employee share trusts Representatives of the Groups auditors also generally are contained in note 24 to the accounts.
attend the meetings and each year we meet with the auditors at least once without members of the management present.
Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 17 The role of the Committee includes: monitoring We have also continued in our active recruitment Corporate the integrity of the financial statements of the of Non-Executive Directors and we were pleased to Company and any formal announcements relating to announce the appointment of Brian Wallace as an Governance financial performance: reviewing accounting policies, Independent Non-Executive Director in December Report accounting treatments and disclosures in financial 2006.
We have also reached agreement in principle reports: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys for Bridget Macaskill to be appointed to the Board continued internal controls and risk management systems: and expect to make a formal announcement to that reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures: effect shortly.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Group The Combined Code recommends that at least Review and Audit: making recommendations to the half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the be Non-Executive Directors determined by the Groups external auditor and approving their terms of Board to be independent.
We have agreed that all our engagement: and overseeing the relationship with the Non-Executive Directors are independent, with the external auditors, including assessing independence exception of Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman, who and objectivity.
are each Directors of Oy Hartwall Ab, which is a major We had four scheduled meetings during the year.
Whilst for 2006 we did We also held, for the first time, a full days planning not therefore comply with the Combined Code on this session which enabled us to develop our approaches point, we nevertheless believe that we had a good to issues such as risk management, tax strategy, balance between Executive and Non-Executive transaction reviews and IT outside the constraints Directors on the Board.
Since the appointment of of a formal meeting.
Also, as in previous years, we Brian Wallace in January 2007, we do comply with conducted a formal review of the service provided the Code on this point, but we believe that the right by the Groups external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
balance of skills on the Board is more important than The results of this review were shared with Ernst & a strict proportion of Independent Directors.
We will Young to provide a basis for our recommendation therefore continue with our current process of regular as to their appointment.
refreshment of the Board membership in order to We have agreed a clear policy on the engagement combine the benefits of stability of succession with of our external auditor for non-audit services.
Where continued reinvigoration and challenge from new work is closely related to the audit, for example members.
In essence, we aim to equip the Board accounting advice or stock exchange reporting, work with a balance of skills in the areas of international may be awarded to the external auditor.
If the work is beverages, brands, strategic experience and financial of a nature such that a detailed understanding of the expertise.
We use external search consultants to assist Group is necessary, or where significant benefit can be us in recruitment.
gained from work previously conducted, for example Non-Executive Directors are usually appointed for tax advice or due diligence on transactions, the work an initial term of three years, which can be extended may be awarded to the external auditor, except that if for a further two three-year terms or, exceptionally, it exceeds 250,000 in value, it must first be approved for further periods.
In deciding whether to agree any by the Chairman of the Committee.
All other work such extension, the Committee carefully evaluates the above 100,000 in value will generally be submitted past and likely future contribution to the Board of the for tender and assessed on established criteria, subject Directors concerned, together with the current Board to the approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
structure and the need for progressive refreshing of We believe that this policy provides a more relevant the Board.
measure of auditor independence than the monetary During the year, we agreed that Dr. Neville Bains ratios and guidelines followed by some investors.
appointment should be extended to the close of the A breakdown of the fees paid to our auditors in Annual General Meeting and that Ian McAllisters respect of audit and non-audit work is included appointment should be extended for a further year.
in note 5 to the accounts on page 35.
As required by the Combined Code, we took into account the fact that they had already served NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE on the Board for nine and ten years respectively, Report by the Chairman of the Committee, but came to the clear conclusion that this did not Sir Brian Stewart compromise their independence.
The current members of the Committee are: Sir Angus Ian McAllister will therefore retire at the AGM but Grossart, Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson offer himself for re-election.
Other Directors who will and Sir Brian Stewart.
The Committee therefore be proposed for re-appointment, in accordance with comprised a majority of Independent Non-Executive the Companys articles of association, are Ian McHoul Directors throughout the year.
The Company Secretary and Erik Hartwall, who retire by rotation and Brian is Secretary to the Committee and the Chief Executive Wallace who has been appointed since last years and Group HR Director usually attend meetings by AGM.
In addition, Bridget Macaskill will be proposed invitation except where their personal positions are for re-appointment if she has joined the Board by under discussion, as do other Non-Executive that time.
The role of the Committee includes: reviewing REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the structure, size and composition of the Board and Report by the Committee Chairman, making recommendations to the Board on changes: Ian McAllister planning succession for Directors: assessing and The members of the Committee are: Dr Neville Bain, nominating for Board approval candidates to fill Board Sir Angus Grossart and Ian McAllister as Chairman, vacancies: reviewing annually the time commitment all being Independent Non-Executive Directors.
required from Non-Executive Directors: making Our formal Remuneration Report, on pages 21 recommendations to the Board regarding Committee to 27, contains a summary of our terms of reference, memberships: and reviewing the leadership needs a further explanation of our activities and our of the Company to ensure its ability to compete remuneration policy and details of the remuneration in the marketplace.
paid to the Board during the year.
During the year we held three formal meetings, where the agendas included a review of the current profile of the Board and a discussion of our resources and our succession plan.
18 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 TREASURY COMMITTEE As part of the ongoing process, each division Corporate Report by the Committee Chairman, and function reviews and evaluates the risks to the Sir Angus Grossart achievement of its strategic objectives.
The Board Governance The current members of the Committee comprise: also identifies those significant risks which might Report Sir Angus Grossart Chairman, Dr Neville Bain, preclude achievement of corporate objectives.
Ian McHoul the Group Finance Director, Alan Dick Mitigating controls are then identified together continued Group Financial Services Director and John Jackson with any action necessary to enhance the Group Treasurer, who also acts as Secretary.
The profiles of The role of the Committee includes: providing significant risk at divisional and corporate level strategic recommendations to, and acting on behalf are subject to regular review and update as an of, the Board on treasury matters: presenting an integral part of the Groups integrated performance Annual Treasury Policy Statement for review by the management process.
Board: and the approval on behalf of the Board of The Board obtains its assurance on the standard terms for loan facilities and guarantees effectiveness of the control system from regular within certain financial limits.
reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee, At each meeting we review current market management reports, reports by the internal and conditions for each of our main businesses, with external auditors and receives a formal report on increasing focus on our developing business interests the process annually.
in Russia, India and China.
The Group has an internal audit function Group Review and Audit or GRA which reports to the Audit NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committee.
The annual audit plan, which is risk-based, Report by Ian McAllister, is approved by the Audit Committee and covers Senior Non-Executive Director business processes and internal controls in all The Non-Executive Directors met twice, as a formal divisions and functions.
Reports are produced group, during the year, once with the Chairman for each audit undertaken and there is an effective and once under my Chairmanship.
We do, however, follow-up system for ensuring the implementation have a regular dialogue with the Chairman outside of agreed action.
A comprehensive control self-assessment As required by the Combined Code, I led a formal exercise conducted on an annual basis complements evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the work of GRA.
This exercise is subject to regular including separate interviews with each member of enhancement and requires management to assess the the Board, after which a formal report was produced effectiveness of their control over all aspects of their for discussion at the meeting of the Non-Executive operations, not just financial controls.
Group Review Directors at which the Chairman was not present.
and Audit will test the validity of the latest responses One issue we addressed, in particular, was Sir Brians on their next visit to the location.
At the end of the chairmanship of Standard Life, which joined the financial year, heads of business functions sign a FTSE 100 on flotation in July 2006.
Aware of the letter of representation confirming that controls Code recommendation that an individual should have been applied throughout the year.
not chair two FTSE 100 companies, and of Standard The foregoing procedures can be varied depending Lifes flotation plans, we addressed the issue when upon the specific agreements with each of our joint Sir Brian was appointed chairman of Standard Life in venture partners.
Where this is the case, however, we 2003.
We believed then that the appointment would would seek to ensure so far as is practicable that we not interfere with his role as Chairman of S&N and I are satisfied with the effectiveness of the prevailing am pleased to report that this has proved to continue control environment.
In the case of our investment to be true after Standard Lifes flotation.
in Baltic Beverages Holding BBH, in particular, If any shareholders would like to raise any concerns significant progress has been made during last year, with me, or with any other Non-Executive Director, and is expected to continue during 2007, with the could they please contact the Company Secretary.
creation of a robust corporate governance framework, including an Audit Committee and internal audit DIRECTORS INTERESTS function at BBH.
Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman are former shareholders of Oy Hartwall Ab, which the Company GOING CONCERN acquired in May 2002 pursuant to agreements dated After making enquiries, the Directors have a 14 February 2002.
Otherwise, no Director had, reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate during or at the end of the year, any material interest resources to continue operating for the foreseeable in any contract of significance in relation to the future.
For this reason, the going concern basis was Groups business.
adopted in preparing the accounts.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 27.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND AUDIT The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and we recognise that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As prescribed in the revised guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal Control, we have established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements.
The process is regularly reviewed and discussed at the Board and amended where required.
Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 19 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES PROVISION OF AUDIT INFORMATION Corporate IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Each of the Directors who were members of the Board The Groups consolidated financial statements are of Directors at the time of approving this report have Governance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
confirmed in accordance with Section 234ZZA of the Report The Directors are responsible for preparing Companies Act that: the Annual Report and the Group and Company a So far as the Director is aware there is no relevant continued Financial Statements, in accordance with applicable audit information of which the Companys law and regulations.
auditors are unaware: and UK company law requires the Directors to prepare b The Director has taken all the steps that he ought Group and Company Financial Statements for each to have taken as a Director in order to make financial year.
Under that law the Directors are himself aware of any relevant audit information required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in and to establish that the Companys auditors are accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have aware of that information.
elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
AUDITORS The Group Financial Statements are required by A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly Companys auditors and to authorise the Board to set the financial position and performance of the Group.
their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming The Company Financial Statements are required Annual General Meeting.
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
By Order of the Board The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation Peter Kennerley to such financial statements that references in the Secretary relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving 20 February 2007 a true and fair view are references to their achieving fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
For the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial Statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
20 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006
