Corporate Governance 1 Corporate Governance Statement 6 Internal Control and Risk Management 2 Board Composition 7 Communication with Shareholders 3 Board Effectiveness 8 NYSE Corporate Governance Rules 4 Board Proceedings 5 Reports from Committees executive directors.
Vicky Bailey and Nolan Karras will retire following the Annual General Meeting AGM : accordingly Corporate Governance this requirement will continue to be met.
1 Statement Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 48 and 49.
The Board is committed to good corporate governance.
The There is a clear division of authority at the most senior purpose of this statement is to explain how the company has level within the company through the separation of the roles of applied the principles contained in the UK Combined Code.
Charles Miller Smith as Chairman and Philip Bowman as Chief It should be read in conjunction with the Remuneration Report Executive.
The relationship between the two roles has been of the Directors on pages 57 to 68. documented and agreed by the Board, creating an appropriate During the year ended 31 March 2006, the company system of checks and balances.
complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code, Donald Brydon is the senior independent director and with the following two exceptions: serves on the Boards three principal standing committees.
1.4 the value of any fees received by executive directors acts as the presiding director at meetings of the independent in respect of external non-executive appointments is not directors and leads the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
disclosed in the Remuneration Report as this is not considered He is available to shareholders for concerns which have not relevant to ScottishPower: and been resolved by contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive D. 1.1 this provision is concerned with dialogue with major or for which such contact is inappropriate.
shareholders on issues of governance and strategy and an The non-executive directors are drawn from diverse explanation of the companys position in this respect is backgrounds and possess a broad range of experience contained in the statement below under the heading encompassing business, financial services, regulation and Communication with Shareholders.
community administration in the UK and US.
This gives them the capacity to debate with and constructively challenge This statement also contains details of the companys management both in relation to the development of strategy compliance with the applicable provisions of the US Sarbanesand in relation to operational and financial performance.
Oxley Act of 2002 and associated rules and the corporate governance rules set out in the Listed Company Manual of the INDEPENDENCE New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to Further details including documents that can be be independent in character and judgement, having no material downloaded can be accessed on the corporate governance relationship with the company.
As in prior years, the Board section of www.
made this determination based on detailed questionnaires completed by all non-executive directors.
Last year the Board set out in detail its reasoning for regarding Nolan Karras and Nancy Wilgenbusch as 2 Board Composition independent.
This explanation was provided because of The Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and connections between these directors and the companys former six independent non-executive directors.
It therefore meets the subsidiary, PacifiCorp.
The Board was cognisant of these matters Combined Code requirement that at least half of the board, but considered that they posed no threat to either directors excluding the chairman, should comprise independent nonindependence.
That remains the view of the Board.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 51 Corporate Governance APPOINTMENTS Reports were produced for the Board and each of the The Nomination Committee has developed a robust process for committees and considered at their March meetings.
The outcomes the selection and recruitment of directors.
Following a review of the evaluation exercise were positive and the Board considered of the Boards size, composition and diversity, the Committee the decisions it had taken during the year to be of high quality with determines selection criteria and a role specification which is good levels of teamwork, participation and debate.
There was an then passed to external selection consultants.
The Committee acceptance of the need to place a renewed focus on the reviews the profiles of identified candidates and interviews are composition of the Board going forward.
The Committee then makes its recommendations arising from the evaluation included, for example, methods of to the Board for approval.
strengthening links and enhancing communication with Directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first independent advisers.
The Nomination Committee also received a annual general meeting following their appointment and are summary of the outcomes of the individual evaluation as part of its subject to re-election at intervals of not more than three years broader consideration of those directors to be re-appointed and rethereafter.
Decisions on re-election are informed by the results elected and the development needs of directors.
of the individual performance evaluation exercise.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term COMPANY SECRETARY of three years and re-appointment is not automatic.
Taking into All directors have access to the advice and services of the account the independence guidelines contained in the Combined Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board Code, the company revised its policy during the year to provide procedures are observed and for advising the Board on all that non-executive directors may serve for a maximum of three corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretarys remit three-year terms.
None of the current non-executive directors encompasses ensuring good information flows as well as has served for more than two terms of office.
facilitating the programme of directors induction and professional development and the Board performance evaluation exercise.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
3 Board Effectiveness ADVICE AND INSURANCE DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Directors can take independent professional advice at the All newly appointed directors receive a structured induction, companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The tailored to their requirements, to ensure they have the necessary company has in place a directors and officers liability insurance knowledge and understanding of the company and its activities.
policy that provides appropriate cover in respect of legal action At the time of appointment of new non-executive directors they brought against its directors.
Article 159 of the companys are available to meet with shareholders on request.
Articles of Association provides that every director or officer of Continuing professional development is provided through the company shall be entitled to be indemnified by the company briefing sessions in the course of regular Board meetings, to the extent permissible under UK company law in respect of covering business-specific and broader regulatory issues.
liabilities incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
A deed of indemnity in similar terms to Article 159 has BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION been granted to each current director and officer of the company For the last three years the performance evaluation has been since July 2005.
These indemnities are available for inspection conducted using external facilitators.
This year it was conducted by shareholders at the companys registered office.
internally, although external consultants may be used on a periodic basis in the future.
The internal evaluation followed a formal and structured process.
The Chairman met with each of the directors to review 4 Board Proceedings the effectiveness of the Board and the Nomination Committee which he chairs and to conduct the individual evaluation.
The MEETINGS chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees held similar The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year, with meetings with members of their own committees.
The evaluation an additional eight meetings to address specific issues.
As part of the Chairman was led by the senior independent director of this schedule, the Chairman meets with the non-executive following a private discussion of the non-executive directors and directors and also the non-executive directors meet privately taking into account the views of the executive directors.
under the guidance of the senior independent director.
Details The evaluation recognised that the Board had taken a of directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its number of major and far-reaching decisions during the year and Committees are set out in Table 30.
The contribution of focused on the way the Board had reached these decisions and individual directors should not however be assessed solely by the support provided by the committees.
reference to the number of meetings attended.
52 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 Board meetings involve reviews of operational, financial and SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL MATTERS safety performance against the targets set by the Board and risk At each of its scheduled meetings, the Board receives an management, both at a group level and for each of the businesses.
operational report from the Chief Executive describing They also cover strategic issues, business issues requiring decision developments across the group, including any relevant social, often in relation to capital expenditure projects and other environmental and ethical SEE matters.
Similarly, any SEE specific issues for decision or information.
At each meeting, the matters of significant importance are incorporated within the Board receives an operational report from the Chief Executive overall risk and control framework and included in the risk and a financial and risk report from the Finance Director.
SEE matters are also included in the induction programme for directors.
These mechanisms enable the Board DECISIONS to take account of the strategic significance of SEE matters to The Board took three decisions during the year of major significance the group.
for the company: to sell PacifiCorp returning cash to shareholders Further information regarding SEE matters can be found and restructure the continuing group: to reject a takeover approach in Section 9 of the Business Review and on the corporate from E. ON: and to appoint a new Chief Executive.
In each case the responsibility section of www.
Board scrutinised all aspects of the proposal and devoted significant time to ensuring that the decision was in the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
Taking the sale of PacifiCorp as an Reports from example, over the period from September 2004 to May 2005 the 5 Committees Board held a series of dedicated strategy sessions and additional meetings in order to review the different options with The Board is supported by three principal standing committees management and with financial and legal advisers.
the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Board has also established a Group Finance Committee, chaired GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK by Nick Rose and comprising both executive and non-executive The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for directors, which allows for detailed scrutiny of financing issues.
decision, ensuring that the Board can exercise control over the It has authority to approve financing transactions within the key issues of strategy, investment and capital expenditure.
A strategy set by the Board.
summary of this schedule can be accessed on the corporate Reports from the Nomination and Audit Committees are governance section of www.
set out below and the activities of the Remuneration Committee With the exception of these reserved matters, the full are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 68. authority of the Board is delegated to the Executive Team.
The committees terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis, and are available on the corporate governance section of EXECUTIVE TEAM www.
com and on request from the Company The Executive Team is constituted as a committee of the Board Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of and comprises the executive directors along with key executives the committees.
and officers responsible for the businesses and functions within the group biographical details of Executive Team members are NOMINATION COMMITTEE set out on pages 48 and 49.
The Executive Team generally meets The Nomination Committee is chaired by Charles Miller Smith.
once a month and ensures executive focus on groupwide The other members are Donald Brydon, Nolan Karras and performance and risk management.
Nancy Wilgenbusch, all independent directors, and Philip Table 30 Board and committee attendance during the year ended 31 March 2006 Charles Vicky Euan Donald Nolan Nick Nancy Philip Simon Philip Ian Charles David Judi 1 2 3 4 5 6 Miller Smith Bailey Baird Brydon Karras Rose Wilgenbusch Bowman Lowth Carroll Russell Berry Nish Johansen N A R N, R, A N, R, A R, A N, R N R, A N Board 15 15 9 13 13 12 12 2 15 6 12 5 8 14 15 meetings Nomination Committee 4 4 4 4 1 3 4 meetings Remuneration Committee 5 9 1089 4 10 meetings Audit Committee 9 9 9 8 3 9 meetings 1 5 N Nomination Committee Philip Bowman was appointed in January 2006.
David Nish retired in September 2005 2 6 R Remuneration Committee Philip Carroll retired in July 2005.
Judi Johansen retired in March 2006.
3 A Audit Committee Ian Russell retired in February 2006.
4 Committee Chairman Charles Berry retired in September 2005.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 53 Corporate Governance Bowman, the Chief Executive.
Following his appointment on Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the 16 January 2006, Philip Bowman replaced Ian Russell on the Finance Director, the Group Director of Finance, the Director Committee.
The majority of the members of the Committee are Group Internal Audit and representatives of the external independent non-executive directors.
However, the Committee holds regular private sessions The main functions of the Committee are to: to meet separately with senior management, representatives of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
review the structure, size and composition of the Board: During the year the Committee met on nine occasions.
identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies: It reviewed the quarterly and annual results announcements of consider succession planning for directors: both Scottish Power plc and PacifiCorp and received quarterly oversee the directors induction and training programme reports on the work of the Internal Audit function, including the and the Board performance evaluation exercise: and results of audits undertaken during the period and delivery of the keep under review developments in relation to corporate audit plan.
It also received more detailed presentations on risk governance.
and control issues from the management of each of the businesses, allowing the Committee to question and challenge Only one Board appointment was made during the year, that of management directly on these issues.
Philip Bowman as Chief Executive.
Given the critical importance The Committee received regular progress updates on the of this appointment, all of the non-executive directors were implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of involved in the selection process and held extensive discussions 2002.
It also monitored reports being received through internal on the issue led by the Chairman.
External consultants were and external whistleblowing channels and reviewed the groups instructed to lead the search and constructed a short-list of anti-fraud programme.
candidates, from which two were selected for interview conducted by the Chairman and senior independent director.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE Philip Bowman was identified as the preferred candidate and was During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the subsequently interviewed by each of the remaining non-executive independence and objectivity of the external audit firm.
To directors before being appointed at a meeting of the full Board.
prevent this independence being compromised policies are in During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
The place regarding the provision of non-audit services, and the Committee kept under review the composition of the Board and hiring of former external audit staff.
In line with best practice, its committees and considered issues of management change and the Audit Committee undertook a tender of the external audit succession, recommending the appointment of a new Finance contract in early 2006.
Following a rigorous review process, Director and a new Company Secretary.
In performance of its it was agreed to recommend the appointment of Deloitte & corporate governance role, the Committee adopted a revised Touche LLP as the groups external auditor for the year ending policy on non-executive directors terms of office, received an 31 March 2007.
A resolution to this effect will be put to update on those directors who completed their induction phase shareholders for approval at the upcoming AGM.
during 2005 and considered the results of the performance The policy on non-audit services prohibits the use of the evaluation of individual directors.
external audit firm for specified services.
It is considered appropriate, for commercial and practical reasons including AUDIT COMMITTEE confidentiality, to use the external auditors for certain non-audit The Audit Committee is chaired by Nick Rose, who is also the services.
These permissible services are set out in the policy and identified audit committee financial expert for Scottish Power have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee up to an initial plc.
The other members of the Committee are Vicky Bailey, fee value of 100,000 per assignment.
Permissible services that Donald Brydon and Nolan Karras.
Philip Carroll retired from are not listed in the policy require to be pre-approved the Committee on 22 July 2005.
All of the members of the individually by the Audit Committee or its Chairman: any Committee are independent non-executive directors.
assignments that exceed the fee limit must be reviewed and The main functions of the Committee are to: authorised by the Committee Chairman and the Finance assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Director.
consider key risks facing the group and controls over these risks: Fees paid to the external auditors are shown in Table 31 review the companys financial statements: opposite: consider the activities and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including the engagement of auditors, the audit scope and approach, fees and performance: assess compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: and review litigation and claims affecting the group.
54 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Table 31 The companys commitment to controls and risk management Auditors remuneration is embedded within its culture and reflected in its policies.
The 2005 06 2004 05 m m organisational structure enables appropriate control of the Audit services businesses, with authority and accountability being delegated statutory audit 2.0 1.7 on a structured basis according to acceptable levels of risk.
audit-related regulatory reporting 0.5 0.7 Further assurance services 1.4 2.5 The importance of acting with integrity and in a control Tax services conscious manner is communicated to all managers and employees.
compliance services 1.2 1.0 The companys expectations in this regard are set out in Compliance advisory services 1.8 0.4 Other services 0.1 Behaviour and the Law, a policy document that summarises the Total UK and US audit and non-audit fees main legal, regulatory, cultural and business standards applicable paid to auditors 7.0 6.3 to all employees.
The company has also adopted a Code of Ethics For the year ended 31 March 2006, fees for Further assurance services and Tax advisory for Principal Officers this document can be accessed on the services principally relate to services provided in connection with the disposal of PacifiCorp corporate governance section of www.
and the capital reorganisation and return of cash to shareholders.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, fees for Further assurance services principally relate to due diligence work The company has in place an anti-fraud programme and on acquisitions and advice regarding the implementation of s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act procedures to ensure that all incidences of fraud are appropriately and the implementation of IFRS.
This is supported by the companys Speaking Out and Whistleblower Protection Policy, which Safeguards are also in place to protect the independence of the incorporates a confidential, external reporting service operated Internal Audit department.
The department reports directly to by an independent provider.
This policy provides for all reports the Audit Committee: the Committee reviews the Internal Audit made through the external service, and all other internal reports work plan and sets the departments budget.
In addition, the judged material, to be communicated to the Audit Committee.
Committee is required to approve the appointment, replacement, A Disclosure Committee operates at management level to reassignment or dismissal of the Director Group Internal Audit.
ensure effective disclosure controls are operating around the production of key published financial statements and to provide assurance to the Chief Executive and Finance Director that they Internal Control and may sign their formal certification to the SEC in accordance 6 Risk Management with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining an IDENTIFICATION AND EVALUATION OF RISKS adequate internal control system, and for setting the companys The companys strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, risk management policy, rests with the Board.
The effectiveness which effectively manages exposures related to the achievement of the system is kept under continual review by the Audit of business objectives.
Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, as part of a rolling work Each business identifies and assesses the key risks associated programme.
This review encompasses financial, operational and with the achievement of its strategic objectives.
Any key actions compliance controls as well as risk management systems.
Audit needed to enhance the control environment are identified, along Committee papers and minutes are circulated to all members of with the person responsible for the management of the specific the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee chairman updates risk.
A detailed review of the key risks, controls and action plans the Board on the Committees deliberations after each meeting.
within each of the businesses takes place and a risk report is The Executive Team is responsible for implementing the produced for review and challenge at the monthly meetings of risk management strategy: ensuring that an appropriate risk the Business Risk and Investment Committees see below.
management framework is operating effectively across the A groupwide risk report setting out the top ten risks is group: embedding a risk culture throughout the group: and prepared on a monthly basis and reviewed by the Executive Team.
providing the Board and the Audit Committee with a The Board also considers this report at its scheduled meetings.
consolidated view of the risk profile of the company, identifying Further details of risks can be found in Section 9.3 of the any major exposures and mitigating actions.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, recognising that it can provide only BUSINESS RISK AND INVESTMENT COMMITTEES reasonable and not absolute assurance against material During the year, the Group Energy Risk Committee and the misstatement or loss.
The internal control system and risk Group Investment Committee were disbanded and replaced management framework, which is subject to continuous with Business Risk and Investment Committees BRICs.
development, provides the basis on which the company has Operating within each of the businesses, the role of the BRICs complied with the Combined Code provisions on internal is to maintain an overview of all matters of risk and capital control.
management and undertake diligence as required.
Membership ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 55 Corporate Governance includes the business head and other senior business executives The Board is kept informed of investors views principally as well as corporate representation from the finance, strategy, through the distribution of analysts and brokers notes.
In risk management and legal functions.
addition, the Board may commission periodic research.
These are practical and effective methods of communicating MONITORING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION shareholder opinion to the Board on a regular basis.
The operation of the groups control and monitoring procedures The Chairman and the senior independent director and is reviewed and tested by the groups Internal Audit function indeed other non-executive directors are available to under the supervision of the Director Group Internal Audit, shareholders in the event of any concerns arising which cannot with a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and to the be addressed through management, or in connection with any Finance Director.
Internal Audit reports and recommendations significant change to the companys strategy, remuneration policy on the groups procedures are reviewed regularly by the Audit or governance arrangements.
The Chairman has held meetings Committee.
The external auditors also provide reports to the with various investors during the year, with discussions including Audit Committee on matters in relation to the groups internal issues of strategy, management and governance.
However, it is financial control procedures identified during the course of their not the companys practice for the Chairman or senior audit.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports on the independent director to hold such meetings routinely.
As a result, continued development, implementation and evaluation of the the company has not strictly complied with the full requirements risk management and internal control system.
of Code provision D. 1.1, although it is believed that, in practice, the objectives of the provision have been achieved.
EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 AGM The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have evaluated The AGM gives shareholders the opportunity to consider the the effectiveness of the groups disclosure controls and companys financial and business performance as well as to procedures as at the end of the period covered by this report.
question the Board on its stewardship of the company.
It is Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance normal practice for all directors to attend the AGM and be Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures available to answer questions.
Philip Carroll, who was retiring at as they are defined in Rule 13a-15 e under the Securities the conclusion of the meeting, was unable to attend the AGM in Exchange Act of 1934, as amended are effective.
All resolutions at the AGM are voted by poll, with full During the year management has further improved the control results including the number of votes withheld published environment in response to business change and developments in following the close of the meeting.
The application of IFRS has introduced more complexity to the groups financial reporting processes principally in its treasury and energy management activities and management NYSE Corporate will continue to enhance processes and systems in these areas to support ongoing business needs.
Furthermore, PPM Energy 8 Governance Rules implemented a new integrated financial accounting system in The NYSE requires listed companies incorporated in the US to March 2006 following the divestment of PacifiCorp.
Management comply with certain corporate governance rules.
Foreign issuers is now focused on embedding these new processes and systems such as ScottishPower are exempt from the majority of these within the PPM Energy business.
requirements and may instead follow the practices prevailing in There has been no change to the groups internal controls their home country.
The practices followed by ScottishPower are that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially very similar to those mandated by the NYSE with two primary affect, these controls over financial reporting during the period exceptions: covered by this report.
Nomination Committee composition in line with UK practice, the Nomination Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors, but does also include both Communication with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The NYSE rules suggest that 7 Shareholders all members of the committee should be independent: and DIALOGUE Corporate Governance principles UK listed companies are The company promotes dialogue with major investors through required either to comply with the Combined Code or explain analysts briefings and investor roadshows in the UK, US and why they have not done so.
As a result, the Combined Code in Europe.
These presentations cover strategic issues as well as effect provides a set of corporate governance principles for the financial and operational performance.
Broader shareholder company addressing all of the issues covered by the NYSE communication takes place through the companys website at rules.
ScottishPower has not, therefore, adopted companywww.
com, and through the Annual Report & specific corporate governance guidelines as suggested by the Accounts and the Annual Review.
