In 2006, Serco Group plc complied fully Reporting directly to the Board, the with the provisions of the Code of Best Corporate Assurance Group CAG is Practice as issued by the Financial tasked to develop and oversee corporate Reporting Council in 2003 and processes for the identification and superceded by the Combined Code on management of business risks and the Corporate Governance issued in June appropriate application of the Serco 2006 the Code.
Management System SMS and corporate responsibility activities throughout the The paragraphs below together with the Group.
The Business Review on pages 10 Business Review on pages 10 to 44 and to 44 details the internal control and risk the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to policies, procedures and management 71 provide details of how the Company framework adopted by the Group.
The has applied the principles and provisions Corporate Responsibility Report, which of the Code.
covers the whole spectrum of corporate assurance processes and outcomes for 2006 is available online at www.
TheBoardofDirectors The Report illustrates how Sercos Board composition: Currently the Board approach to corporate assurance and has seven members: the Chairman, two responsibility translates from the Board into Executive Directors and four Non-Executive everyday working practices.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards Reserved and delegated authorities: There decision-making.
The Chairman is is aformal schedule of matters reserved to presumed under the Code not to be the Board.
This schedule, which is independent.
The Board considers all the reviewed annually, includes approval of: Non-Executive Directors to be Group strategy independent.
They bring avaluable range Annual financial and operating plans of experience and expertise to the Board.
Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or The profiles of all Directors can be found divestments on page 57.
Annual and interim financial results The role of the Board: The Board has Dividend policy responsibility for the overall management Treasury policy.
and performance of the Group, the approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and for ensuring that any necessary In addition, the Board satisfies itself as to corrective action is taken promptly.
the integrity of financial information, ensures adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management, together with the appointment and removal of Directors, the Company Secretary and committee members and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
46 Annual Review and Accounts 2006  Other  are As Chairman, Kevin Beeston is delegated to Board committees which responsible for: operate within clearly defined terms of Ensuring the effective running of the reference.
Details of the responsibilities Board, its agenda and process delegated to the committees are given on Promoting the highest standards of pages 49 to 50. corporate governance and ensuring appropriate communication with Information flow: Senior executives below shareholders on these standards and the Board level attend certain Board meetings Groups overall performance and make presentations on the results and Maintaining appropriate external strategies of their divisional units and relationships and promoting the Group functional areas of the Group.
members are given appropriate documents in advance of each Board and each The Chairmans role is distinct from that of committee meeting.
Board meetings are the Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, routinely held four times ayear over two who is responsible for: days at atime.
They are structured to allow open discussion and for all Directors to The formation and implementation of the participate fully in discussing the strategy, Groups global strategy trading and financial performance and risk Providing motivation and leadership to management of the Group.
Meetings are the divisions, chairing the Global held at varying locations and the Management Board and setting its style opportunity is used to combine the formal and tone business of the Board with site visits and Setting the overall policy and direction of divisional presentations and discussions.
Sercos business operations, Additional Board meetings are scheduled investments and other activities within a if required, usually to discuss major framework of prudent and effective risk transactions, if any.
management and ensuring that divisions and functions control those risks The attendance of individual directors at satisfactorily Board meetings held during the year, which Providing, with the Chairman, external they were eligible to attend, is shown in the leadership and representing the Group to table on page 48. major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Company Secretary and independent advice: The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all Senior Independent Director: corporate governance matters, ensuring DeAnne Julius is the Senior Independent that all Board procedures are followed, Director and is available to shareholders if ensuring good information flow and they have any issues or wish to discuss facilitating induction programmes for any aspects of the Groups business Directors.
All Directors have access to the without the Executive Directors being advice and services of the Company present.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take External directorships for Executive independent professional advice if Directors: The Board considers that necessary at the Companys expense.
Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through Chairman and Chief Executive: appropriate Non-Executive appointments in Kevin Beeston is currently the Executive other listed companies or independent Chairman of the Group.
The Board is careful 2006, after 22 years with Serco, he to ensure that any such appointments do announced his intention to move to not compromise the effective management Non-Executive Chairman from 1September of the Group and that these are approved 2007.
This move is supported by the in advance of appointments being taken Board and has been communicated to up.
Details of the fees received by and discussed with major shareholders Executive Directors for external as appropriate.
appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 63. www.
com 47 Re-election of directors: In accordance with Term of appointment: All Non-Executive the Companys Articles of Association, a Directors are appointed for an initial term of Director must retire at the Annual General three years.
Thereafter, subject to Meeting but is eligible for re-appointment satisfactory performance, they may serve if he or she has held office for more than one or two additional three-year terms, with 30 months as at the date of the notice athorough review of their continued convening the meeting, since he or she independence and suitability to continue as was appointed or last re-appointed.
Any Non-Executive Directors being undertaken Directors appointed by the Board since the if they remain on the Board for more than last Annual General Meeting must stand for nine years.
The terms and conditions of the re-election at the next Annual General appointment of the Directors are Meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors who summarised in the Remuneration Report have served for more than nine years will on page 63 and are available on request be subject to annual re-election.
The names of the Directors retiring and Meetings of Non-Executive Directors: standing for re-election at the 2007 Annual Non-Executive Directors meet separately General Meeting are set out in the Notice without the Chairman or Executive of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
 Independence: All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management  and have no cross-directorships or The attendance of the individual Directors significant links which could materially at Board and committee meetings during interfere with the exercise of independent 2006 was as follows: judgement.
Board Audit Remuneration Training&Nomination Development 2 4 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings 1 meeting 1 meeting Kevin Beeston 4n a n a 11 Christopher Hyman 4n a n a n a n a Andrew Jenner 4n a n a n a n a 3 Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 32410 Margaret Ford 43511 4 Ralph Hodge 11101 DeAnne Julius 43511 David Richardson 43511 Notes: 1.
N a means that the specified Director is not amember of that committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the committee.
In addition to the four full Board Meetings, which are run over two days, there was one Board meeting, attended by the Executive Directors only, for the approval of the year end results which had been considered previously by the full Board, with authority delegated from the Board to the Executive Directors for final approval of the results.
Leonard V. Broese van Groenou was appointed to the Board as aNon-Executive Director on 3April 2006.
Ralph Hodge retired as aDirector on 5May 2006.
48 Annual Review and Accounts 2006  BoardEffectiveness and the frequency of certain of the reports Induction: On joining the Board, Directors to the Board.
All recommendations from are given background information the evaluation have been implemented.
describing the Group and its activities.
Leonard V. Broese van Groenou, who was appointed as aDirector on 3April 2006, BoardCommittees received an induction pack which included The Boardhas  information on all the governance number of permanent committees to deal processes of the Group, the roles of the with matters in accordance with written Board, committees and other management terms of reference.
The terms of reference teams and arange of other appropriate for all committees are reviewed on a information about the Group, its activities regular basis by the Board to ensure they and its advisors.
He also met with arange are still appropriate and reflect any of key people from across the Group on a changes in good practice and governance.
structured basis to assist his induction.
Committees are authorised to obtain Visits were also arranged to anumber of outside legal or other independent contracts around the country.
professional advice if they consider it necessary.
Continued professional development: During 2006 the Board members were all The Audit Committee and Audit Committee engaged in arange of training and Report professional development activities.
These Membership: The Audit Committee is activities are reported to the Training and chaired by David Richardson and Development Committee, which also comprises Margaret Ford, DeAnne Julius considers the training needs of all Directors and Leonard V. Broese van Groenou.
The and the Company Secretary.
All Board Committee consists solely of independent members are encouraged to attend Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of relevant training courses at the Groups the Committee has recent and relevant expense.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
Performance evaluation: In October 2006, a rigorous evaluation of the Board and its At the invitation of the Committee, the committees was undertaken which Finance Director, Director of Corporate included aformal evaluation questionnaire Assurance, Grant Thornton the Groups and one-to-one meetings for all Directors internal audit providers and Deloitte & held with the Chairman plus an evaluation Touche LLP the external auditors, attend of the Chairmans performance led by the meetings.
The Committee meets with each Senior Independent Director.
The Group of the internal auditors, external auditors recognises the importance of arigorous and Corporate Assurance teams separately evaluation process for the Board and at least once ayear.
All Directors have ensures that comments and access to the minutes of the Audit recommendations are considered carefully Committee meetings.
and implemented where appropriate to ensure the continued development of the Responsibilities: The Audit Committee is Board.
The outcomes from the Boards responsible for exercising the full power appraisal were discussed fully at the and authority of the Board on accounting November 2006 Board meeting.
The matters and financial reporting matters principal finding from the evaluation was including the integrity of the financial confirmation that the Board is effective and statements of the Group, the accounting in many cases is considered to be leading policies adopted, significant in aspects of best practice.
All Directors financial reporting judgements made and feel that the Board and Group is open and the role of the internal auditors.
that appropriate information is provided to In accordance with the Combined Code, the the Board in the furtherance of its Committee is responsible for aformal responsibilities.
Aspects for further whistleblowing policy and procedure which development were largely procedural and applies throughout the Group.
Responsibility covered such areas as the balance for the operation of this policy has been between formal reports and presentations delegated to the Company Secretary.
com 49 During 2006, the Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee considered the following: Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies together with the Directors Corporate Governance Report and remuneration, emoluments and interests in Directors Statement of Responsibilities the Companys share capital are set out in for inclusion in the 2005 Annual Review the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71. and Accounts 2006 Interim Report The Training and Development Committee 2006 external audit fees Membership: The Training and Review of the whistleblowing policy Development Committee is chaired by Kevin Beeston and comprises Margaret Assessment of the Committee and the Ford, DeAnne Julius, David Richardson external and internal auditors and Leonard V. Broese van Groenou.
2006 internal audit programme and Responsibilities: The Committee met once proposed 2007 programme during 2006 in November to consider the Work undertaken and fees incurred by training needs of all Directors and the the external auditors to ensure that the Company Secretary.
external auditors remain independent of the Group.
Executivecommittees The Board has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Non-audit services: During the year, the business to the Global Management Board Group has complied with the policy set by GMB.
The GMB is chaired by the Chief the Audit Committee in respect of the Executive, Christopher Hyman and its provision of audit and non-audit services by membership currently comprises fifteen Deloitte &Touche LLP, the Groups external senior managers representing each of the auditors.
Where appropriate, Groups operating divisions and anumber non-audit services have been provided by of functional heads.
It also includes the companies other than Deloitte &Touche LLP.
Finance Director plus the Chairman by invitation.
The GMB meets formally three Auditor independence: The times ayear, over two days at atime to independence, objectivity and review the Groups activities and discuss effectivenessofthe external auditors has management and operational issues.
been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their Representatives from across the Serco terms of engagement, remuneration and business are invited to the meetings to proposal for partner rotation.
discuss aspects of their business or give presentations on specific topics.
The GMB The Committee recommended to the is able to take abroad view of the business Board that Deloitte &Touche LLP be due to its membership being drawn from proposed for re-appointment at the across the Group.
This recommendation has been accepted and Asenior group of the GMB, the Executive will be proposed to shareholders.
Team, which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises six members  including the three Executive Directors, is Membership: The Nomination Committee responsible for the oversight of all aspects is chaired by Kevin Beeston and comprises of the day-to-day operations and trading of Margaret Ford, DeAnne Julius, David the Group.
The Executive Team met 12 Richardson and Leonard V. Broese van times during the year.
The Committee met once during 2006 in February.
Responsibilities: Matters considered included the appointment of Leonard V. Broese van Groenou as aNon-Executive Director which took place when Ralph Hodge was still aNon-Executive Director and before the appointment of Leonard V. Broese van Groenou, the Board structure and composition going forward and the appointment of Margaret Ford as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
50 Annual Review and Accounts 2006   Group website The Groups relationships with The Group website www.
com is a shareholders are given ahigh priority.
The primary source of information on the Annual Review and Accounts is available to Group.
The site includes an area tailored all shareholders and ashorter Annual for investors, including information such as Review and Summary Financial Statement an archive of reports, announcements, is also available by election or on request.
presentationsand webcasts, share price In addition, an Interim Report is produced.
tools, the terms of reference for all Board Regular trading updates are published committees and information on voting at ahead of closed periods and before the the Annual General Meeting.
It also has a Annual General Meeting by press release.
link directly to the Companys registrars, In addition, press releases and stock allowing shareholders to view their exchange announcements are made shareholding online and to vote on the regarding significant contracts or resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting transactions.
All trading announcements for the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
are posted on the Groups website www.
BusinessConduct Annual General Meeting The Group has published an Ethics and Individual shareholders have the Business Conduct Policy that applies to all opportunity at the Annual General Meeting business divisions, operating companies to question the Chairman and, through and business units throughout the world.
him, the chairs of the various Board committees and other Directors.
The Policy outlines the Groups position on awide range of ethical and legal issues Details of the meeting are set out in the including conflicts of interest, financial Notice of Meeting, which is sent to inducements, human rights and legal and shareholders and contains the text of the regulatory compliance.
The Policy applies resolutions to be proposed with to Directors and to all employees explanatory notes.
regardless of their position or location.
Shareholders attending will be advised of Serco has established adedicated the number of proxy votes lodged for each whistleblowing hotline so that employees resolution, in the categories for and can seek guidance or express any against together with the number of concerns on Group related issues.
This information is also Company Secretary investigates any issues posted on the Groups website raised independently and reports back to www.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
Institutional investors All three Executive Directors have regular The Group maintains aposition of dialogue with .
The impartiality with respect to party politics.
Groups investor relations programme and Accordingly, itdoes not contribute funds to day-to-day activities are managed by any political party.
Itdoes however Richard Hollins, Head of Investor Relations.
contribute to the public debate of policy As part of her role as the Senior issues that may affect the Group in the Independent Director, DeAnne Julius is countries in which it operates.
available to shareholders and has participated in anumber of routine meetings during 2006.
The Board receives an investor relations report on aquarterly basis.
This reviews share price movements and valuation, changes in the share register, the Groups recent and planned investor relations activities, communication with shareholders, analyst recommendations and significant news from the market and support services sector.
The report ensures that the Board has aclear understandingof the Groups investor relations performance.
com 51  Further to the comments above regarding Corporate Assurance, details of the Groups internal control and risk management processes are contained in pages 41 to 43 of the Business Review.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses, which it has determined to be significant from its review of the Groups internal controls.
GoingConcern The Directorsconfirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Review and Accounts.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Joanne Roberts Secretary Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY 28 February 2007 52 Annual Review and Accounts 2006
