Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance All directors who joined the board during the year The company attaches great signicance to the have undertaken induction training.
Furthermore, maintenance of good corporate governance the training needs of all directors are kept under procedures and adherence to best practice review and appropriate training identied as part recognising that they play their part in creating of a continuing process.
a framework which can provide increased benets for shareholders.
Details of the directors service agreements, emoluments, the interests of directors and their Compliance statement immediate families in the shares of the company The report set out on pages 35 to 39 describes and in awards or options over such shares granted how the company has applied the principles of under the companys Long Term Incentive Plans good corporate governance as set out in Section 1 and Sharesave Scheme are shown in the Directors of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance remuneration report on pages 40 to 51. issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
In respect of the Operation of the board year ended 31 March 2006, and the period up The board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring to the date of approving the accounts, the board that the company is properly managed and considers that the company has complied with achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
It has an the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which includes setting long term strategic and business The board objectives, overseeing the companys internal Board structure control systems and ensuring that appropriate The board consists of a non-executive Chairman, resources are in place to enable the company to five executive directors and six non-executive meet its objectives.
In accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals, Sir John Egan and Colin The board meets at least ten times in each Matthews, are appointed to the positions of calendar year and convenes additional meetings as Chairman and Group Chief Executive respectively.
Details of the number of board Martin Flower is the senior independent nonand committee meetings and the attendance of the executive director.
He retires from the board on directors at those meetings are shown on page 37.
10 June 2006 and will be replaced in that role by Richard Davey.
The Chairman has prime responsibility for the effective workings of the board and agrees the The board has reviewed the status of the nonagenda in consultation with the Group Chief executive directors and considers them all to be Executive and Company Secretary.
Papers, independent in character and judgement and including minutes of board committees held since within the denition of this term in the Combined the previous board meeting and reports from each Code.
The test of independence is not appropriate of the executive directors responsible for the in relation to the Chairman.
groups operating businesses or key central functions, are circulated in advance of each The Chairman and the non-executive directors meeting.
In addition to the board meetings, the contribute external expertise and experience in Chairman meets with the non-executive directors areas of importance to the group such as corporate without the executive directors present.
The nonfinance, general finance, corporate strategy, executive directors also have an annual meeting environmental matters, general management where there is an opportunity for them to meet and corporate governance.
They also provide without the Chairman.
independent challenge and rigour to the boards deliberations.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management of all of the groups Collectively, the board is satisfied it has all of the businesses and for implementing board strategy necessary skills, experience and qualities to lead and policy within approved budgets and the company timescales.
The Group Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee.
Membership of the Directors and their interests Executive Committee is shown on page 30 and Michael McKeon was appointed as an executive comprises the executive directors and senior director on 13 December 2005. managers responsible for key central functions.
Bernard Bulkin and Richard Davey were appointed Procedures are in place which allow directors to as non-executive directors on 1 January 2006. take independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the John McAdam, Mark Wilson and Derek Osborn advice and services of the Company Secretary.
retired from the board on 1 September 2005, Where a director has a concern over any 13 December 2005 and 31 March 2006 respectively.
unresolved business he she is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Martin Flower will retire from the board on Should he she later resign over this issue, the 10 June 2006.
Chairman will bring it to the attention of the board.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set out on page 30.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Governance Corporate governance report The company purchases directors and ofcers Auditors independence, as part of the committees liability and indemnity insurance to cover its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit directors and ofcers against the costs of defending process.
An analysis of fees payable to the Auditors themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in respect of audit and non-audit services is in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting provided on page 67. from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
It is the groups policy to seek rotation of the Board committees Auditors principal engagement partner as a matter The board has established an effective of course every five years and of other key committee structure to assist in the discharge members of the audit team, where deemed of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference appropriate by the Audit Committee.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees the Principal Committees comply The Audit Committee has reviewed risk with the provisions of the Combined Code and management and the effectiveness of the are available for inspection on the companys system of internal control during the year website www.
com or may be ended 31 March 2006 and has reported obtained on written request from the Company to the board on the outcome of this review.
Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
The effectiveness of the groups internal audit Each of the Principal Committees has reviewed function has been reviewed by the Audit its effectiveness and terms of reference during Committee.
the year and any necessary actions have been identied and reported to the board.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the groups formal whistle blowing policy that deals with The membership of all board committees is set out allegations from employees relating to breaches on page 30. of the groups Code of Business Principles and Conduct.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by John Smith.
Remuneration Committee Its membership comprises Bernard Bulkin, Marisa The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Martin Cassoni and Richard Davey.
He retires from the Board on 10 June 2006 executive directors may serve on the committee.
and will be replaced in that role by Richard Davey.
John Smith and Marisa Cassoni have been The other members of the Committee are Marisa identied by the board as having recent and Cassoni, and Martin Houston.
Only independent, relevant financial experience.
non-executive directors may serve on the committee.
The Chairman and the Group Chief The committee meets with the groups external Executive attend Remuneration Committee auditors the Auditors at least four times a year.
meetings at the invitation of the Remuneration By invitation of the committee other individuals Committee Chairman.
The committee will normally such as the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, meet at least four times a year.
Group Finance Director and Group Director of Internal Audit will normally be in attendance for all The Remuneration Committee determines, on or part of those meetings.
The committee and the behalf of the Board, the companys policy on the Auditors also hold separate meetings without the remuneration of executive directors and the attendance of executive management.
Chairman of the board, and is consulted by the Group Chief Executive regarding remuneration for a In their assessment of the independence of the number of the companys senior executives.
Auditors, the committee receives annually in writing details of relationships between the Auditors and Further information on the activities of the the group, which may bear on the Auditors Remuneration Committee is given in the Directors independence and receives conrmation that remuneration report on pages 40 to 51. they are independent of the group as required by International Auditing Standard 260.
The Directors remuneration report also describes how the principles of the Combined Code are The committee annually reviews the level of applied in respect of remuneration matters and the Auditors fees in respect of the audit of includes a statement on the companys policy on the financial statements of the group and its directors and senior executives remuneration, subsidiaries at the same time as considering the benets, share scheme entitlements and pension adequacy of the Auditors proposed audit plan.
A formal policy, which includes fee limits, has A resolution to approve the Directors remuneration been adopted for non-audit services.
Any material report will be proposed at the Annual General project work where fees payable to the Auditors Meeting.
are likely to exceed 100,000 must be approved by the Audit Committee.
Where fees are expected to exceed 500,000 the project work would normally be the subject of a competitive selection process.
The level of non-audit services provided by the Auditors and the associated fees are considered annually by the committee, in the context of the 36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Nominations Committee Directors interests in contracts The Nominations Committee is chaired by No director had a material interest at any time Sir John Egan and its members are the Group during the year in any contract of signicance, Chief Executive and all non-executive directors.
other than a service contract as shown in the The committees core members are Bernard Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 51, Bulkin, Martin Flower and John Smith.
All other with the company or any of its subsidiary non-executive directors will attend meetings subject undertakings.
Other executive directors, senior management and external advisors may be invited Remuneration to attend meetings as considered appropriate.
The Directors remuneration report, which includes The Nominations Committee has responsibility a statement on the companys policy on directors for considering the size, structure and composition and senior executives remuneration, is set out of the board of the company, retirements and on pages 40 to 51. appointments of additional and replacement directors, succession planning and making Reappointment recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate The companys Articles of Association require all balance of skills and experience on the board.
The directors to submit themselves for reappointment committee meets at least three times a year.
at least every three years.
This provision also ensures that, as a minimum, one third of the board The board appointments made during the year in of directors, together with any director appointed respect of Michael McKeon, Bernard Bulkin and since the last Annual General Meeting, retires each Richard Davey were undertaken using an external year and, if eligible and so desires, stands for search consultancy.
reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
directors retire on the basis of their length of Corporate Responsibility Committee service since their last election.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Its main responsibility Martin Houston, Colin Matthews and John Smith is to develop, review and promote policies to further retire by rotation.
Bernard Bulkin, Richard Davey the groups environmental values in its business, and Mike McKeon have been appointed since the workplace and community engagement activities.
All six directors offer The committees terms of reference may be viewed themselves for reappointment.
on the companys website www.
Details of the groups corporate responsibility The Nomination Committee has formally reviewed activities may be found on pages 23 to 25. the performance, contribution and commitment of each of the retiring directors and has recommended Meetings their reappointment to the board.
Details of the board and principal committees meetings attended by each director during the Performance and effectiveness reviews year are as follows: During the year the board, with the help of an outside facilitator, carried out a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees.
Since the board has undergone a number of changes Plc board Audit RemunNomieration nations with three new directors joining the board and a new Company Secretary being appointed in the Number 13689 latter part of the year a review of individual of meetings performance was not done.
Each director and the Sir John Egan 13 9 Company Secretary answered a questionnaire on M J Bettington 13 his her perception of the composition, operation R S Brydon 13 and effectiveness of the board and its committees and on the performance of the Chairmen of the Jannetta 2 board and principal committees.
In addition they B Bulkin 4 2 were interviewed by the facilitator to explore M L Cassoni 12 6 6 certain issues in greater depth and to identify 3 R H Davey 3 1 areas requiring improvement.
Finally, the M C Flower 12 8 8 process reviewed progress against actions M J Houston 12 5 identied in last years review.
4 J D G McAdam5 33 1 Shareholders M J E McKeon4 Relations with shareholders C S Matthews 13 The board recognises the importance of representing 5 F A Osborn 13 6 8 and promoting the interests of its shareholders and 7 J B Smith 96 1 that it is accountable to shareholders for the 6 M R Wilson 8 performance and activities of the company.
A P Wray 13 The annual report and accounts is the principal means of communicating with shareholders.
com contains 1 Appointed 13 12 05 5 Resigned 31 03 06 2 Appointed 01 01 06 6 Resigned 13 12 05 complete versions of such reports along with other 3 Appointed 01 01 06 7 Appointed Nominations information relevant to shareholders.
4 Resigned 01 09 05 Committee 01 12 05 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Governance Corporate governance report continued In respect of the companys Annual General Each business unit reports regularly to the Group Meeting the board encourages shareholders Chief Executive on its risks and controls.
The to attend and exercise their right to vote.
The Executive Committee reviews these risks as well notice of meeting and related papers are sent to as carrying out a process to identify any other shareholders at least 20 working days before the significant risks affecting the group, considers the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on controls in place to mitigate the risks faced by the each substantially separate issue.
Details of the group and ensures that its focus is on managing proxy votes for and against each resolution and the most important risks and meeting any changes the number of abstentions are indicated after in the risk prole.
the result of the vote on a show of hands.
The board reviews risk management and the Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet effectiveness of the system of internal control with the board before and after the Annual through the Audit Committee.
They also keep Generally Meeting.
Presentations are made on the under review ways in which to enhance the control groups activities and performance prior to the and audit arrangements in the group.
The Audit formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders have Committee receives reports every six months from the opportunity to ask questions of the board and the Group Chief Executive on the significant risks present their views.
The chairmen of the Audit, faced by the group, an assessment of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees, effectiveness of controls over each of those risks together with all other directors will normally and an action plan to improve controls where this attend the Annual General Meeting.
has been assessed as necessary.
Any significant control weaknesses that have been identied are The company announces its results on a half yearly also reported to the Audit Committee.
Presentations are made to analysts and also report on significant control issues to this shareholders following the release of the interim committee.
The internal audit department provides and year-end results.
The Group Chief Executive objective assurance and advice on risk and Group Finance Director meet shareholders management and control and monitors the risk during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, management process.
The groups internal audit the senior independent non-executive director are department has been reorganised with a dedicated available to meet shareholders if required.
The Group Director of Internal Audit appointed and board receives written feedback following meetings more resources made available to it.
In addition its with institutional shareholders.
reporting lines have been changed and its processes strengthened to provide an independent Internal control review of Severn Trent Waters controls and Internal control and risk management reporting.
New external auditors were appointed at The board has overall responsibility for the groups the Annual General Meeting in 2005. system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board has formally established During the year the Audit Committee and the policies and processes for identifying and Board considered certain weaknesses in controls.
evaluating the significant risks faced by the group.
In particular, on 31 October 2005 the group The policies and processes are designed to manage announced that the Serious Fraud Ofce was risks rather than eliminate them and can only undertaking a criminal investigation into alleged provide reasonable but not absolute assurance false reporting of leakage gures to Ofwat by against material errors, losses or fraud or breaches Severn Trent Water and that it is co-operating fully of laws or regulations.
with the Serious Fraud Ofce.
On 7 March 2006 the conclusions of Ofwats interim report concerning There are procedures for managing these allegations of false reporting made against Severn significant risks, of which the key elements are: Trent Water in 2004 were accepted and on 7 April an organisation structure with clear lines of 2006 it was announced that the company was accountability: regular, structured reviews of giving Ofwat an interim report into misreporting business risk by senior management: a scheme of of customer relations data.
To address these issues delegated authority: pre-approval of plans, budgets a thorough review of control processes in Severn and significant investments: monthly reporting Trent Water was embarked upon and substantial and monitoring of financial results and other key action has already been taken to implement its business measures and independent assurance recommendations.
This work continues to improve provided by both internal and external auditors.
As part of this Deloitte and Touche conducted a review of key controls The senior management teams of each of the in the Water company and substantially all their principal business units have identied the risks recommendations have now been implemented.
facing their businesses and have made an The remainder will be completed during this year.
assessment of the impact and likelihood of those risks.
They also have a process to identify changes The directors confirm that there is an ongoing to the risk prole and to identify weaknesses in process for the identication, evaluation and internal control.
The controls that are in place to management of the significant risks faced by the manage each of the more significant risks in each group.
This process has been in place throughout unit have been identied and an assessment has the year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date been made of the effectiveness of these controls.
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It accords with the guidance in the report on Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance.
38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Principal risks groups operating costs or capital expenditure by Through its business operations the group is requiring changes and modications to its exposed to a number of commercial risks and operations in order to comply with any new uncertainties, which could have a material impact environmental laws and regulations.
on our businesses, financial condition, operations and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of The failure of our assets or our inability to carry our securities.
Not all of these factors are within our out critical operations could have a significant control and, in addition, other factors besides those impact on our financial position and our reputation listed below may have an adverse effect on the group.
We may suffer a major failure in our assets which could arise from a failure to deliver the capital In 2006 07, one of the most significant risks that the investment programme for our businesses or to group faces will be to deliver the new comprehensive maintain the health of our systems.
Any failure strategy for the group, which has at its core a could cause us to be in breach of a licence or focused water company and, therefore, includes approval and even incidents that do not amount to the demerger of Biffa from the Severn Trent group.
a breach could result in adverse regulatory action The delivery of this strategy will be a key focus and financial consequences, as well as harming our of our risk management process.
Severn Trent Waters regulated business the following specic risks have been identied: controls and operates water and sewerage networks and undertakes maintenance of the associated Changes in law or regulation in the areas in which assets with the objective of providing a continuous we operate could have an adverse effect on our service.
The failure of a key asset could cause a business and operations significant interruption to the supply of services, Regulatory decisions in relation to our businesses, which may have an adverse effect on the groups eg on whether licences or approvals to operate are operating results or financial position.
In addition renewed, whether market developments have been water supplies may, inter alia, be subject to satisfactorily implemented, on the level of contamination, including contamination from the permitted revenues for our businesses, whether development of naturally occurring compounds there has been any breach of the terms of a licence and pollution from man-made sources and these or an approval, could have an adverse impact on may have an adverse effect on our operating the results of our operations, cash ows, financial results or financial position.
The group could also condition of our businesses and the ability to be held liable for human exposure to hazardous develop those businesses in the future.
substances or other environmental damage.
The results of our operations depend on a number In addition, we are subject to other risks which are of factors relating to business performance, including largely outside our control, such as the energy costs, the ability to outperform regulatory targets and impact of climate change, weather or unlawful acts deliver anticipated cost and efficiency savings of third parties, including terrorist attacks, sabotage Earnings from our regulated water business or other intentional acts which may also physically will be affected by our ability to meet or better damage our business or otherwise signicantly our regulatory targets set by Ofwat, Environment affect corporate activities and, as a consequence, Agency, Drinking Water Inspectorate and other affect the results of our operations.
To meet these targets, we must continue to improve management and operational External factors could affect the groups pension performance.
In addition, earnings from a regulated schemes and adversely impact on our financial business also depend on meeting service quality position standards set by regulators.
To meet these standards Pension assets and liabilities pre tax of 1,403 we must improve service reliability and customer million and 1,625 million are held in the groups service.
If we do not meet these targets and balance sheet as at 31 March 2006.
Movements in standards, both our results and our reputation equity markets, interest rates and life expectancy may be adversely affected.
could materially affect the level of surpluses and deficits in the schemes and could prompt the Various government environmental protection and need for the group to make additional pension health and safety laws and regulations govern our contributions in the future.
The key assumptions businesses used to value our pension liabilities are set out in These laws and regulations establish, amongst other Note 27 on page 85. things, standards for drinking water and discharges into the environment which affect our operations.
The groups financial position and business results In addition, our businesses are required to obtain could be adversely affected if its existing funding various environmental permissions from regulatory arrangements are materially altered agencies for their operation.
Environmental laws The main risks faced by the group in its treasury and regulations are complex and change operations relate to material external changes to frequently.
These laws and their enforcement have current arrangements.
In the debt markets, factors tended to become more stringent over time both in such as borrowing restrictions or changes to credit relation to their requirements and in the levels of ratings could mean we were unable to finance proof required to demonstrate compliance and, ourselves or be forced to pay too high a price for while we believe we have taken account of the that finance.
In terms of our borrowings a significant future capital and operating expenditure necessary proportion is subject to variable interest rates and to achieve and maintain compliance with current any increase in those rates could substantially and foreseeable changes in laws and regulations, it increase our borrowing costs.
In addition we is possible that new or stricter standards could be undertake financial transactions with a number of imposed or current interpretation of existing institutions and we could suffer a financial loss if legislation amended, which will increase the any of those counterparties were to fail.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39
