Combined Code The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and exemplary ethical standards in all its business dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30, explains how the Group has applied the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003.
The Board considers that it has complied with the Code provisions in all material respects throughout the year.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, four further Non-executive Directors and one Executive Director.
Their brief biographies are set out on page 16.
During the year to 31 March 2006, Mr A Auer, Mr P Johnson and Mr F Welham were appointed as Directors on 16 May 2005.
Mr R Biffa retired on 30 June 2005 and Mr D Downes retired on 31 December 2005.
Mr I Clubb, having reached the age of 65, will be retiring at the conclusion of the AGM due to be held on 27 July 2006 and will be succeeded by Mr A Auer.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate individuals and the role of the Chairman is Non-executive.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for the operations of the Group and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr I Clubb and Mr P Delaunois are not deemed to be independent in accordance with the criteria set out in the Combined Code due to Mr Clubbs length of service and Mr Delaunois receiving fees for providing consultancy advice to the Groups Belgian subsidiaries in addition to the fees received for acting as Director.
Notwithstanding this, the Board considers they are independent due to their experience, strength of character, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its Committees.
The Non-executive Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby ensuring that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share option schemes.
Mr R Pointon is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board meets regularly, normally at least ten times a year, and in addition, separate strategic discussions take place.
Several meetings are held at subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and overseas where local operations are reviewed.
The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, and may delegate certain powers to Committees of the Board.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are published financial statements, strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over a defined limit, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
Matters not reserved for the Board may be delegated to senior management.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
The performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors were evaluated during the year via the Company Secretary where questionnaires were completed and reviewed by the Board.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years if eligible, and all Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for a three year term.
Any new Director appointed to the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
It has been agreed that those Non-executive Directors who have served for a period greater than nine years from initial appointment will submit themselves for annual re-election.
The Board confirms that it is satisfied that Mr M Averill and Mr P Delaunois, who are proposed for re-election at the AGM, continue to demonstrate the necessary commitment to be fully effective members of the Board.
On appointment, Directors are given a comprehensive introduction to the Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
