Corporate governance statements The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board has taken into consideration that The Hon James Grant is a The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance partner of Stikeman Elliot, a Canadian law rm which, from time to time, and supports the provisions and principles set out in The Combined provides legal advice to the Group.
The Board considers Mr Grant to be Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Reporting independent notwithstanding his position as he is not involved in the Council in July 2003 and revised in June 2006 the Combined Code.
provision of legal advice to the Group and is not engaged in marketing the services of Stikeman Elliott to the Group.
Stikeman Elliott is one of Statement of compliance with the Combined Code a range of legal and other professional advisors engaged by the Group Throughout the year ended December 31, 2006 the Company has, in from time to time.
Accordingly, the Board does not consider the the Directors opinion, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 relationship between the Group and Stikeman Elliott to be material and of the Combined Code.
the fact that Mr Grant is a partner at that rm does not, in the Boards assessment, affect his independence.
Mr Grant was a Board member The Board of BioChem Pharma Inc. prior to its merger with Shire in 2001.
Mr Grant The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive and seven has extensive knowledge of Shires business and he brings valued Non-Executive Directors and meets at least six times a year.
The Non-Executive Directors bring judgement which is independent of management to Board deliberations.
The Executive Directors have The Board, when making its determination on the independence of responsibility for day-to-day business operations.
Dr Price, gave particular consideration to the fact that Dr Price has been a serving member of the Board for 11 years, that the Combined The Board has overall responsibility for managing Shire and its Code suggests that length of service of nine years or more is relevant strategic direction and seeks to provide effective leadership and the to a determination of independence and that re-appointment should control required for a listed company.
The Board discharges those be subject to rigorous review.
The Board was also mindful of the need responsibilities through regularly scheduled meetings.
The Board has to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
In this regard the Board formally reserved specic matters to itself for determination and took into account that there have been substantial changes to the approval which include strategic issues, budgeting, changes in share Board membership in recent years, including the appointments of capital, approval of the Groups financial statements and approval of Mr Buchanan and Mr Emmens in 2003, Mr Kappler in 2004, Mr Langlois material contracts.
The Board reviews the Groups internal controls in 2005, Ms Nealon in 2006, Dr Leiden in 2007 and the retirement of Mr and risk management policies and approves its Code of Ethics.
It also Nordmann at the end of his term of ofce in December 2006.
Having monitors and evaluates the performance of the Shire group as a whole, deliberated carefully on the issue, the Board has no hesitation in asking through engaging with the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer Dr Price to remain on the Board.
Dr Prices commitment to the Group and members of the Management Committee, as appropriate.
Matters is undiminished and his performance continues to be effective.
In not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the Management accordance with the Combined Code, Dr Prices reappointment to Committee and to various other Board committees whose functions are the Board is for a one year term.
His reappointment will be subject to described below.
shareholder approval at the 2007 AGM.
Board members receive detailed information from Executive Throughout 2006 and up to the date of publication of this report, at Directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Management least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised Non-Executive Committee and other senior managers to enable them to discharge their Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
All Directors have access to the advice and guidance of the Company Secretary and are encouraged to Board and Committee changes seek independent advice at the Groups expense, where they feel it is Mr Kappler joined the Nomination Committee on April 26, 2006.
The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the Langlois joined the Remuneration Committee on December 12, 2006. knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions required Ms Nealon joined the Board and the Remuneration Committee on July of a director of a listed company.
Dr Leiden joined the Board on January 1, 2007.
Mr Nordmann retired from the Board on December 22, 2006.
Biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on pages 26 and 27.
Independence of Directors The Board considers Dr Barry Price, The Hon James Grant, Mr Robin Buchanan, Mr David Kappler, Mr Patrick Langlois and Ms Kate Nealon to be Independent Non-Executive Directors and that Mr Ronald Nordmann was an Independent Non-Executive Director for all of his period of ofce.
The Board views each of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent of management, independent in judgement and character and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
32 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Corporate governance statements Board meetings Supply of information During 2006, there were eight Board meetings of which six were faceThe Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible to-face meetings and two held by telephone.
Board meetings are well for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members in attended.
The record of attendance by Directors at Board meetings is advance of any scheduled Board meeting.
Before decisions are made, set out below: consideration is given to the adequacy of information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further information is Number of required.
The Company Secretary, Ms Tatjana May, is also secretary meetings Out of Attendance of the other Board committees.
Directors attended possible % James Cavanaugh Appointment and re-election of Directors Chairman 8 8 100 The Board has authority to appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed must retire and submit himself for election at Matthew Emmens the next AGM.
Chief Executive officer 8 8 100 Angus Russell Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two Chief Financial officer 8 8 100 years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one Barry Price year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code, are subject to Senior Non-Executive Director 8 8 100 annual re-election by shareholders.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive The Hon James Grant Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Non-Executive Director 6 8 75 Board approval.
Ronald Nordmann At every AGM a minimum of one-third of the Directors must retire Non-Executive Director 8 8 100 from ofce and may offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Robin Buchanan Accordingly, no Director should serve for more than three years without Non-Executive Director 8 8 100 being subject to re-election.
David Kappler At the AGM to be held in 2007, Dr James Cavanaugh, Dr Barry Price, Non-Executive Director 8 8 100 Ms Kate Nealon, Mr David Kappler, Mr Patrick Langlois, Mr Matthew Patrick Langlois Emmens and Dr Jeffrey Leiden will retire and offer themselves for Non-Executive Director 7 8 88 re-election.
Kate Nealon Further information concerning all the Directors standing for re-election Non-Executive Director at the AGM, including their biographies, will be included in the Notice Appointed July 27, 2006 2 2 100 of Meeting to Shareholders.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met during the year The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and without the Executive Directors being present.
the service contracts of the Executive Directors will be made available for inspection at the Companys AGM in 2007.
Chairman and Chief Executive officer The ofces of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are held separately.
Board performance evaluation The Chairman, Dr James Cavanaugh, is responsible for the conduct The Company conducted evaluations of the performance of the Board, of the Board and ensures that Board discussions are conducted in such its Committees and its Directors in 2006.
The 2006 evaluations were a way that all views are taken into account and so that no individual undertaken by way of a formal review chaired, respectively, by the Director or small group of Directors dominates proceedings.
The Chief Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Board Committee.
Executive officer has the overall responsibility for running the business The reviews covered a wide range of matters including adequacy on a day-to-day basis and chairs the Management Committee.
of the composition of the Board and its Committees, performance of Directors and the adequacy of information provided.
The Board The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive and its Committees noted that the minor improvement to operating officer are clearly dened, separate and have been approved by the procedures identied in the previous year had been implemented.
Following discussions in 2006, further minor improvements were identied for implementation in 2007.
Senior Non-Executive Director Dr Barry Price is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Dr Price is the Groups longest-serving Director and as such he has significant knowledge of Shire and its business.
Dr Prices in-depth knowledge of Shire and the pharmaceutical industry generally is acknowledged and utilized by the Board.
Dr Price chairs meetings held by the Non-Executive Directors during the year in the absence of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Dr Price is available, as required, for consultation with major shareholders on any matter of concern.
Annual report and accounts for the 33 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Corporate governance statements Committees of the Board The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search The Board has established the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee, consultants to assist it in the identication and nomination of new the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Board candidates.
Each committee has its own written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board.
The Terms of For further information about the Nomination Committee, its Reference of the committees are available on the Groups website.
membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 Details of each committee are as follows: please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 31.
1 Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee 4 Management Committee The Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee has been established In July 2006 Shire revised its operating model and streamlined its for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting decision making structure.
A new Management Committee was processes of the Group, the audit of its financial statements and the established with the remit to focus on overall corporate strategy, Groups systems of internal controls.
It meets at least four times a year.
near and long-term business planning, the execution of merger The members of the Committee are all Independent Non-Executive and acquisition strategies and corporate governance.
For further information about the Audit, Compliance and Risk has delegated the day-to-day management of the Group to the Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December Management Committee, which operates within clear and formal 31, 2006, please refer to the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee parameters.
It is expected that the Management Committee will meet report on pages 39 to 40.
Since July 2006 it has met on six occasions.
The Chief Executive is the Chairman of the Management Committee, which 2 Remuneration Committee on December 31, 2006 consisted of four Executive Vice Presidents The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board including the two Executive Directors.
The Management Committee the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior reports to and seeks guidance from the Board on a regular basis.
executives and the xing of the terms of employment of the Executive The Management Committee replaced the previous, larger, Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is Committee which met ten times from January 2006 until its determined by the Board.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors disbandment in July 2006. and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The remuneration of the members of the Management Committee, The Members of the Management Committee as at December 31, 2006 other than the Executive Directors, and the Executive Vice Presidents, were Mr Matthew Emmens Chief Executive officer, Mr Angus Russell is determined by the Chief Executive officer following discussion with Chief Financial officer and Executive Vice President of Global Finance, the Remuneration Committee.
The members of the Remuneration Mr Mike Cola President of Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Dr David Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Pendergast President of Human Genetic Therapies.
Ms Tatjana May General Counsel, Executive Vice President of Global Legal Affairs and The Remuneration Committee engages external consultants to advise Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Management Committee.
on aspects of remuneration, as it considers necessary.
The Management Committee normally meets once a month to The Remuneration Committee met on six occasions in 2006.
Dr Barry deliberate on major business issues.
It also considers those matters Price chaired the Remuneration Committee throughout the year and that are of a size and signicance as to require referral to the Board Mr Robin Buchanan and Mr Ronald Nordmann were members of this before such matters are referred to the Board for final consideration committee throughout 2006 and attended all meetings.
Ms Kate Nealon and decision.
and Mr Patrick Langlois joined the Remuneration Committee on July 27, 2006 and December 12, 2006 respectively.
Both Directors have Directors remuneration attended all meetings since their appointments.
The Groups remuneration policy is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 52.
The report details the level For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2006, remuneration is determined.
please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 52.
Relations with shareholders 3 Nomination Committee The Group is committed to maintaining constructive relationships The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and with shareholders.
nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The Nomination Committee also ensures adequate succession planning The Group announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief Executive for the Board and senior management.
The Nomination Committee is officer and Chief Financial officer give presentations on the results chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Mr Ronald Nordmann, The Hon James each quarter by teleconference for institutional investors, analysts Grant and Dr Barry Price also served on this Nomination Committee in and the media.
The full year results under US GAAP are included in the 2006 and Mr David Kappler joined the Nomination Committee on April Companys annual review, along with a summary financial statement of 26, 2006.
The Nomination Committee met six times during 2006.
Dr the Groups results under International Financial Reporting Standards Cavanaugh and Mr Nordmann attended all meetings, Dr Price and Mr IFRS.
Full IFRS results are included in the Companys annual report.
As Grant attended five meetings and Mr Kappler attended the meetings the Company has securities listed on NASDAQ in the US, the Company since his appointment to the Committee.
also les quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and an annual report on Form 10-K with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
34 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Corporate governance statements The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer, supported Dividends by other senior executives, also arrange individual and group meetings The Company commenced the payment of a semi-annual dividend with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss the Groups in 2004 with the aim to grow the total dividend paid for each year strategy and performance and to understand the views of major progressively.
As a result of the adoption of this dividend policy, the shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
Company intends to declare interim dividends twice per year, with The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the first payment made around September October, following are available also to meet with major shareholders.
determination of first-half results, and the second payment around April May of each year, following nalisation of the full year results.
The Groups website at www.
com provides information about the The Company does not intend to put a resolution to shareholders to Group and its business and is regularly updated.
The Groups Investor approve a second interim dividend at the AGM which is held in June Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout each year because if the Company was to delay payment of the the year.
second interim dividend, by seeking shareholder approval for the payment at the AGM, the Group would not be able to maintain an even The Company holds its AGM in London.
At the annual meeting, payment cycle at approximately six month intervals unless first-half shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the dividend payments were also delayed.
This is beneficial for the Directors.
The Directors also make themselves available informally Company, both from a cash ow planning and from an accounting after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
perspective and is beneficial for shareholders as dividends are paid promptly and a smooth payment cycle is maintained.
Balanced and timely assessment of positions and prospects The Group strives to give timely assessments of matters that impact Donations to political organisations and EU political expenditure on its business and financial position and to present scientific and At the Annual General Meeting in June 2006, shareholders authorized other information in a balanced way.
the Group to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Corporate Responsibility CR Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 25,000, equivalent The Group recognizes the impact that its business may have on people to $46,043 at average 2006 exchange rates respectively, each year.
and the environment as well as the wider implications of its operations Although the Group does not make and does not intend to make on the general community.
The Group therefore attaches great payments or donations to EU political parties, within the normal importance to social and environmental issues and to ethical business meaning of that expression, the denition in the legislation of EU practices.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is taken at the Political Organisation is wide.
It can extend to bodies which the Group highest levels.
The Board reviews the Groups general approach to might wish to support including those concerned with policy review and corporate responsibility.
The Board also reviews the specic business law reform.
The Group made no donations to EU Political Organisations risks related to CR matters regularly, as part of the overall risk during 2006.
During 2006, Shire set up a Political Action Committee management review process.
The PAC is registered with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen employees The Board receives advice and information from the Corporate and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The PAC is run by a committee Responsibility Committee CR Committee to make this assessment.
of employees which determines the political campaigns or political The CR Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial officer, candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions are held by the PAC meets at least three times a year and is responsible for setting the in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does not contribute policies and procedures that manage CR issues, risks and opportunities.
CR risks are managed within the overall framework of risk management, explained below under the heading internal control.
This year the Group has decided again to produce a stand-alone report on Corporate Responsibility.
This is available on request or from the Shire website.
Code of Ethics The Group is committed to the maintenance of high ethical standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees and is available for review on the Groups website.
Annual report and accounts for the 35 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Corporate governance statements AGM 2007 The Group has established a Disclosure Committee, which is chaired The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, June 20, by the Chief Financial officer.
Its membership includes senior managers 2007.
The business to be transacted at the meeting will include: from the legal, finance and risk departments.
Its responsibilities include ensuring that information disclosed to investors in the Groups periodic receiving the Groups accounts for the year ended December 31, financial reports is recorded, summarised and reported accurately.
2006, together with the Directors report, remuneration report and the auditors report on those accounts and the auditable part of Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the US, the Remuneration Report: the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer are required to complete formal certications, which confirm, inter alia, that: approving the 2006 Directors remuneration report: the annual report on Form 10-K in the US does not contain any electing each of Dr James Cavanaugh, Dr Barry Price, Ms Kate material misstatements or omissions: Nealon, Mr David Kappler, Mr Patrick Langlois, Mr Matthew Emmens and Dr Jeffrey Leiden to the Board: financial information reported in Form 10-K fairly presents the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows of the reappointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and authorising the Group: Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee to approve their remuneration: the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer are responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls adopting a new Employee Share Purchase Plan: and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the US: giving the Directors the authority to disapply pre-emption rights the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have when allotting new shares in certain circumstances: evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and procedures: giving authority to the Group to make limited donations to EU political organisations and to incur limited EU political expenditure: the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have and indicated in Form 10-K whether there were any significant changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting: and authorising the Group to make market purchases of up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses Financial disclosure, internal control and the role of the auditors in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting The Board has, through the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee, which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Groups ability to established formal and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, record, process, summaries and report financial information included internal control and external auditing.
The Committees terms of in Form 10-K have been disclosed to the Groups auditors.
reference extend to the Groups compliance and risk management activities as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have completed these certications and they have been led with the SEC All employees can raise any concerns in any of these areas with the in the US as part of the Groups annual report in the US on Form 10-K. Chairman of the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee in the strictest confidence.
The Group operates a Global Compliance Helpline, which 2 Risk management, compliance and internal control provides a condential means through which all employees are able The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal to report concerns relating to financial disclosure, internal control control, recognizes its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system and other compliance issues in good faith without fear of discrimination of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the or reprisal.
Groups assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control, 1 Financial reporting there are limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly The Board has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than Board strives to present a balanced and understandable assessment eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can of the Groups position and its prospects and endeavors to present provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material scientific and other information in a balanced way.
The Group publishes misstatement or loss.
quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can monitor the Groups financial position regularly.
The Board has reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems in 2006.
Outside of On behalf of the Board, the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee its review, the Board delegates responsibility to the Audit, Compliance has the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of and Risk Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal financial controls and the audit process.
The Audit, Compliance internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit and Risk Committee has independent access to the auditor throughout function.
The Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee has kept these the year in addition to presentations from the auditor on a quarterly areas under review in 2006. basis.
Any significant findings or identied risks are closely examined and are reported to the Board with recommendations for action.
36 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Corporate governance statements The Group has risk management, compliance and internal audit Effective internal control procedures functions.
A Chief Compliance officer was appointed in 2005 and the The Group has a system of control procedures.
Compliance with these role of Chief Risk officer combined with it.
The role of Chief Compliance procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and regular and Risk officer and the role of Vice President of Internal Audit, which reports on financial performance.
Any significant issues arising are are separate, report to the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial reported to the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee.
During 2006, officer, respectively, but each have direct access to the Chairman, the the Group made a significant investment in its internal financial control Chairman of the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee and the other procedures as part of its compliance with s404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act members of that Committee.
They also both attend and present requirements.
This has included the review, documentation and testing regularly at that Committees meetings.
of all key internal financial controls.
The conclusion of this exercise is that the Group had an effective system of internal controls over its US The Groups risk management, compliance and internal audit strategy GAAP Form 10-K financial reporting at December 31, 2006.
In the nonis based on a risk and control framework containing the following financial areas, the Group has established a range of corporate policies key elements: and procedures addressing the areas of compliance risk, which were the subject of substantial review and enhancement in 2006. an effective control environment: Effective internal audit an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: The internal review of the Groups control procedures and compliance with them is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
The Audit, effective internal control procedures: and Compliance and Risk Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit program, considers the findings of internal audit reviews and effective internal audit.
managements response to them, and ensures efficient co-ordination between the Groups internal and external auditors.
The Groups Effective control environment internal audit function, comprising a mixture of internal and out-sourced The key elements of the Groups control environment are as follows: resource, was operational throughout 2006.
The Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the activity of the i the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the internal control internal audit function, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal system and has delegated certain responsibilities to the Management audit during 2006.
Committee and or the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee: 3 External auditing ii a framework of Corporate Values and a Code of Ethics which sets The Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee has the primary appropriate standards of ethical behaviour are operational throughout responsibility for determining the remuneration of and overseeing the the Group: work of any accounting rm engaged to conduct the external audit.
That Committee assesses at least annually the objectivity and iii the internal structure of the organisation is well documented with independence of the external auditor taking into account relevant clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit plan each year and ensures it is consistent with iv a range of corporate policies, procedures and training have been the scope of the auditors engagement.
The Committee also considers implemented: whether the skills and experience of the external audit rm make it a suitable supplier of non-audit services.
v the internal audit department, overseen by the Vice President Internal Audit, carries out regular reviews of control activities and report findings The Committee has set and applies a formal policy in relation to the to management: and provision of non-audit services by the external auditor specifying the types of non-audit work: vi the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee considers the major findings of any internal investigations and managements response to i for which the external auditors are excluded: them.
The Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups control environment.
ii for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral to the Committee: and Effective identication, assessment and management of risks The management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the iii for which a case-by-case decision is necessary, with a view to Group creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Group preserving the auditors independence and objectivity.
The Committee has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the also considers the fees paid to the external auditors and whether significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and in aggregate, throughout the period under review and up to the date of the signing relative to the audit fee are appropriate to enable a proper audit to of the accounts.
All risks are recorded on a corporate risk schedule be conducted.
which allocates specic responsibility to members of the senior staff of the Group.
This schedule has been reviewed by the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee during 2006.
Annual report and accounts for the 37 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Corporate governance statements Going concern basis Changes in internal control over financial reporting After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the In 2004, the Group commenced the implementation of a new integrated time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable information system covering financial processes, production, logistics expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in and quality management.
Further implementations were made in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the 2005 in 2006 and more are planned for 2007.
The implementations Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the have involved changes in the Groups information systems that included financial statements.
aspects of the Groups internal control over financial reporting and therefore changes to the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Disclosure controls and procedures The Group has reviewed each system as it is being implemented and the The Group, under the supervision and with the participation of the controls affected by the implementation of the new systems and made Groups management, including the Chief Executive officer and the appropriate changes to affected internal controls as it implemented the Chief Financial officer, has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness new systems.
Management believes that the controls as modied are of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, in relation to its appropriate and functioning effectively.
Form 10-K US GAAP reporting, as at December 31, 2006.
The Groups management necessarily applied its judgement in assessing the costs In connection with the restatement of the Groups consolidated financial and benets of such controls and procedures, which by their nature can statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 contained in the provide only reasonable assurance regarding managements control Companys Form 10-K for US GAAP financial reporting, the Groups objectives.
Based on this evaluation, the Groups Chief Executive management has concluded that the Company did not identify and officer and Chief Financial officer concluded that the Groups apply US generally accepted accounting principles as they related to disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable level the original accounting in respect of the value ascribed to in-process of assurance for gathering, analysing and disclosing the information research and development IPR&D acquired as part of the TKT that the Group is required to disclose in the reports it les under the US acquisition because it did not have adequate specialist internal Securities Exchange Act of 1934, within the time periods specified in accounting resources at the time of the original accounting for IPR&D.
the rules and forms of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Recognizing the inherent limitations of a retrospective evaluation, the Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Groups management further concluded that, as a result of this resource The Groups management is responsible for establishing and inadequacy, a material weakness had existed in its internal control over maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as dened financial reporting with respect to the identication and application of in Rule 13 a to 15 f or 15 d -15 f promulgated under the US Securities US generally accepted accounting principles.
During 2006, as part Exchange Act of 1934. of the Groups ongoing improvement of its internal control over financial reporting, the Group recruited additional staff with appropriate expertise, Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial whose full time responsibility was to focus on selection and application reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Projections of any of generally accepted accounting principles and related financial evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that reporting matters.
As a result of the improved controls implemented controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, during 2006, the omission that resulted in the 2005 restatement was or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may identied and resolved.
Therefore, as of December 31, 2006, the Groups deteriorate.
management determined that the inadequacy in its disclosure controls and procedures for the identication and application of generally The Groups management assessed the effectiveness of the accepted accounting principles as they related to the accounting for Groups internal control over financial reporting for the purposes of the IPR&D acquired in a business combination had been remedied.
Companys annual report on Form 10-K as at December 31, 2006, which was led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2007.
In making this assessment, the Groups management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on its assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2006 the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting rm, has issued an audit report on managements assessment of the Groups internal control over its Form 10-K US GAAP financial reporting.
The Auditors Report appears on page F-2 and F-3 of the Groups annual report in the US on Form 10-K. 38 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
