Nomination Committee report The members of the Nomination Committee as at December 31, 2006 were Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman, The Hon James Grant, Dr Barry Price and Mr David Kappler.
Mr Ronald Nordmann was a member until his retirement from the Board and the Nomination Committee on December 22, 2006.
Mr Kappler joined the Committee on April 26, 2006.
A majority of the Nomination Committee has been determined by Shires Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Dr James Cavanaugh is the Chairman of the Company and in this capacity is not considered to be independent under the Combined Code.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee require it, before any appointment is made, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, to identify the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee utilizes the services of professional search agencies specialising in the recruitment of high calibre candidates.
The Nomination Committee is required to consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, on merit and against objective criteria.
It is also required to ensure that candidates have sufficient time to devote to the position.
The Nomination Committee also monitors succession planning to the Board and oversees succession planning for senior management.
During 2006, the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Ms Kate Nealon and Dr Jeffrey Leiden.
New Non-Executive Directors receive a customized induction program taking account of their particular experience and backgrounds.
This program includes meetings with senior management.
The Nomination Committee met six times during 2006.
Dr Cavanaugh and Mr Ronald Nordmann attended all meetings, Dr Price and Mr Grant attended five meetings and Mr Kappler attended all the meetings held since his appointment to the Nomination Committee.
Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman of the Nomination Committee Annual report and accounts for the 31 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
