Corporate governance The board remains committed to maintaining high standards of board for decision which include the approval of annual and interim corporate governance throughout the group.
The Listing Rules of the results, the Companys strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital Financial Services Authority require UK listed companies to report expenditure and investment proposals and the overall system of on the manner in which they apply the Combined Code on Corporate internal control and risk management.
Other specific responsibilities Governance the Combined Code.
This report is published pursuant are delegated to the board committees, notably the Audit, to the Combined Code in effect at the Companys year end.
The Remuneration and Nomination committees, which operate within principles of this Combined Code deal with directors, directors clearly defined terms of reference, reporting regularly to the board.
remuneration, relations and accountability to shareholders and the audit of the Company.
The board comprises the non-executive Chairman Martin Adamson, the Chief Executive George Weston, the Finance Director John Bason Statement of compliance and six non-executive directors, with effect from 1 November 2006, Following the publication in June 2006 of the findings of a review who are independent of management and have no relationships by the Financial Reporting Council of the implementation of the which would materially interfere with the exercise of their Combined Code as published in July 2003, amendments have independent judgement.
been proposed and the revised Combined Code the revised Code is encouraged to be applied voluntarily for financial years beginning The board also includes Galen Weston, a non-executive, who is not on or after 1 November 2006.
Formal requirements for the regarded as independent.
The board considers that the non-executive application of the revised Code will apply only once consultation directors provide a solid foundation for good corporate governance has concluded.
for the group and ensure that no individual or group dominates the boards decision making.
Details of the full board are set out on The board recognises that the Combined Code represents best pages 28 and 29. practice and this report, together with the Remuneration report, gives details of how the principles of the Combined Code and the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held revised Code have been applied within the Company.
and are so defined as to ensure a clear division of responsibilities.
Lord MacGregor, who has served on the board for 12 years, is the The board considers that the Company has complied fully with the recognised senior independent director.
The board is fully satisfied as provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code during the year, to his independence, given the manner in which he discharges his except for the following: duties with the Company, but reviews this annually in the light of the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code provides that the Remuneration committee should only comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the directors The board of Associated British Foods plc does not accept this retire by rotation at the annual general meeting in each year subject recommendation as it considers that Martin Adamson, as Chairman, to the requirement that each director seeks re-election every three should participate in any decisions concerning remuneration due years.
Furthermore, in accordance with the Combined Code, each to his experience and the fact that, encompassed in his role is the non-executive director who has served for more than nine years is supervision of the board.
Indeed, the revised Code recognises this required to stand for annual re-election.
Accordingly, in addition to viewpoint and allows the chairman of the Company to be a member those otherwise seeking election, Galen Weston and Lord MacGregor, of the Remuneration committee but not chair the committee if who have served for more than nine years, and Jeffery Harris will be he was considered to be independent on appointment.
No director subject to re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
On joining the board, directors are given background documents The Combined Code provides that the terms and conditions of describing the Company and its activities.
The Company offers appointment of non-executive directors should be made available major shareholders the opportunity to meet new non-executive for inspection.
For Galen Weston the board has not considered it directors.
New directors are provided with an appropriate induction appropriate to enter into a formal letter of appointment.
This is due programme and site visits are arranged to major business units.
to his relationship with the ultimate holding company of Associated Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
British Foods plc, Wittington Investments Limited.
Galen Weston receives no fees for performing his role as a non-executive director Board and committee papers are circulated to members in advance and Associated British Foods plc does not reimburse him for any of the meetings.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and expenses incurred by him in that role.
In accordance with the Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all directors.
The Combined Code he is subject to annual re-election.
Chairman also holds informal meetings with non-executive directors, without any of the executives being present, to discuss any issues The board of directors affecting the group.
The business and the management of the Company are the responsibility of the whole board.
The board met formally nine times Senior executives below board level are invited, when appropriate, during the year.
The individual attendance by directors is detailed to attend board meetings and make presentations on the results and on page 33.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the strategies of their business units.
32 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in pursuit Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the of their duties, take independent professional advice on any matter at Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board the Companys expense.
Board committees Attendance during the year ended 16 September 2006 Audit Nomination Remuneration Full board committee committee committee meeting Directors Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Martin Adamson 2266 99 George Weston 9 9 John Bason 9 9 Lord MacGregor 44 2266 99 Mike Alexander 44 2266 99 Jeff Harris 44 2265 98 Tim Clarke 44 2266 99 Galen Weston 9 2 Nomination committee not attributed to any individual board member.
The results of this Current members: Martin Adamson, Mike Alexander, Jeff Harris, exercise were subsequently reviewed by the board.
The performance Lord MacGregor, Tim Clarke.
of the Chairman was also appraised at a meeting of the non-executive directors chaired by the senior independent director and taking into Chairman: Martin Adamson.
account the views of the executive directors.
Further details of the Nomination committee can be found on The process in 2006 confirmed that all directors continued to page 34. contribute effectively and with proper commitment, including of time, to their roles.
Audit committee Current members: Mike Alexander, Jeff Harris, Lord MacGregor, Relations with shareholders Tim Clarke.
The manner in which the Company communicates with its shareholders is described in the Corporate citizenship section on Chairman: Jeff Harris.
page 27 of the 2006 annual report.
Further details of the Audit committee can be found on pages 34 to 36.
The annual general meeting takes place in London and formal notification is sent to shareholders approximately one month Remuneration committee in advance and in any event at least 20 working days before Current members: Martin Adamson, Mike Alexander, Jeff Harris, the meeting.
The annual general meeting gives shareholders an Lord MacGregor, Tim Clarke.
opportunity to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the Chairman and the board.
The practice Chairman: Martin Adamson.
has been for a short film to be shown at the meeting explaining a particular area of the groups business.
Details of the Remuneration committee and its policies can be found on pages 40 to 45.
Accountability and audit The board is required by the Combined Code to present a The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, the Audit balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys committee and the Remuneration committee are available upon position and prospects.
In relation to this requirement reference request and from www.
co. uk is made to the statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements set out on page 46 of this annual report Performance evaluation and accounts.
The independent auditors report on page 47 In the final financial quarter Spencer Stuart, the global executive of this annual report and accounts includes a statement by the search firm and corporate governance consultants, led the annual auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board recognises process which enabled the board to evaluate the effectiveness of that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable its performance.
This involved an individual discussion between assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public Spencer Stuart and each director based upon designated areas reports, and reports to regulators, as well as information required and topics.
All input was treated as strictly confidential and was to be presented by law.
33 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued Going concern director at the conclusion of their specified term of office, any matter After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable relating to the continuation in office of any director at any time and expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in the appointment of any director to executive or other office.
operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial External recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart, the global executive statements on pages 48 to 118. search firm, conducted a thorough search and identified a number of high quality candidates in connection with the recent appointment Report of the Nomination committee of two new non-executive directors.
The committee comprises the Chairman of the board who also chairs the committee together with the independent non-executive The committee recommended the appointment of Lord Jay of Ewelme directors.
Executive directors may be invited to attend as appropriate.
GCMG and Javier Ferrn to the board and they became non-executive directors on 1 November 2006.
The Nomination committee leads the process for board appointments making recommendations to the board.
Corporate website The terms of reference of the committee, which set out the role and The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when it the authority delegated to it by the board, are available for inspection is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship, at the Companys registered office and can be viewed on the in which case the committee is chaired by a non-executive director Companys website.
elected by the remaining members.
The committee met twice during the year.
The formal letters of appointment of non-executive directors are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Duties The committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, Report of the Audit committee for the approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as Summary of the role of the Audit committee and when they arise.
Before an appointment is made, the committee The Audit committee is responsible for maintaining an appropriate evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the relationship with the groups external auditors and for reviewing the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description Companys internal audit resources, internal financial controls and of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
It aids the board in seeking to ensure that the financial and non-financial information supplied to shareholders Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
presents a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
The committee uses external advisors to facilitate searches for potential candidates.
The committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the external auditors and also considers the scope of their work and The time required from a non-executive director is reviewed annually.
fees paid for audit and non-audit services.
The annual performance evaluation is used to assess whether the non-executive director is spending enough time to fulfil his duties.
The committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external The committee gives full consideration to succession planning auditors.
Members of the committee may, in pursuit of their duties, in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and take independent professional advice on any matter at the opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise Companys expense.
The Audit committee chairman reports the are therefore needed on the board and from senior management outcome of meetings to the board.
Composition of the Audit committee The committee reviews the structure, size and composition including The members of the Audit committee who held office during the year the skills, knowledge and experience of the board, and, if appropriate, and at the date of this report are: makes recommendations for changes to the board.
In this respect, the committee has regard to the results of the annual performance Name Date of appointment evaluation.
The committee keeps under review the leadership needs Jeff Harris May 2003, and appointed chairman in of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to September 2003 ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete efficiently Lord MacGregor December 1994 in the marketplace.
The committee makes recommendations regarding Mike Alexander January 2002 the membership of the Audit committee in consultation with the Audit Tim Clarke January 2005 committee chairman.
Membership of the committee is determined by the board, Activities on the recommendation of the Nomination committee and in The committee makes recommendations to the board on succession consultation with the Audit committee chairman, from amongst for executive directors, the re-appointment of any non-executive the independent, non-executive directors of the Company.
Its terms 34 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 of reference are set by the board and are modelled closely on the results announcements.
It also reviewed the groups preparation provisions of the Combined Code.
for the adoption, and issuance, of financial statements under IFRS.
These reviews considered: Appointments are for a period of three years after which they are subject to annual review, extendable by additional three-year periods the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted so long as members continue to be independent.
The committee in the groups accounts, and proposed changes to them: is comprised of a minimum of three independent non-executive directors at any time and currently comprises four members.
Two significant accounting issues and areas of judgement members constitute a quorum.
and complexity: The committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently the Audit committee chairman fulfils potential tax contingencies and the groups compliance with this requirement.
All Audit committee members are expected to be statutory tax obligations.
The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil The board expects committee members to have an understanding its responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the following areas: of the control environment and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards and statements the external auditors management letters and audit highlights of recommended practice: memoranda: key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant control policies and the groups internal control environment: environment deficiencies: matters which may influence the presentation of accounts and reports on the systems of internal controls and risk key figures: management: and the principles of, and developments in, company law, reports on frauds perpetrated against the group.
sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: The Audit committee is responsible for the development, the role of internal and external auditing and risk implementation and monitoring of the groups policy on management: and external audit.
The groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditors will, the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
and will not, be allowed to provide to the group, subject to fide minimis levels.
Meetings The committee meets at least three times each year and has To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external an agenda linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
auditors, the committee reviewed: The committee invites the Group Finance Director, Group changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the Financial Controller, Director of Financial Control and senior current year: representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and to present such reports as are required for the committee to discharge its duties.
the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit committee to To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee discharge its duties reviewed: In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the committee receives and reviews presentations and reports from the groups senior the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
variations from it: and During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim and reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course annual reports and associated interim and preliminary year end of the audit.
35 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, The chairman of the committee will be present at the annual the Audit committee reviewed: general meeting to answer questions on this report, matters within the scope of the Audit committees responsibilities and any the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope significant matters brought to the committees attention by the of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter external auditors.
for the forthcoming year: The full terms of reference of the Audit committee are available the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: on the Companys website: www.
co. uk the external auditors fee proposal: Internal control The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and system of internal control to facilitate the management of risk, their resolution: the protection of shareholders investments and the groups assets.
The directors recognise that they are responsible for key accounting and audit judgements: providing a return to shareholders, which is consistent with the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
the levels of errors identified during the audit: and Effective controls ensure that the group is not exposed to recommendations made by the external auditors in their avoidable risk, that proper accounting records have been management letter and the adequacy of managements response.
maintained and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
The dynamics The Audit committee has recommended to the board that the of the group and the environment within which it operates are external auditors are re-appointed.
continually evolving together with its exposure to risk.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of assets Internal audit function being unprotected and to guard against their unauthorised The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its use and the failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: against material mis-statement or loss.
internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, to the committee and all members of the board: evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: approval of the annual report and accounts: further details of the Risk Management Review are set out on pages 37 to 39.
The directors the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy have regularly reviewed the system of internal controls utilising the of managements response and the timeliness of resolution: review process set out below.
statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience Standards and timeliness of reporting: and There are guidelines on the minimum group-wide requirements for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by also guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that internal audit.
each of the divisions should exercise over specified processes.
Each business has developed and documented policies and The groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the procedures to comply with the minimum control standards Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on established, including procedures for monitoring compliance accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and and taking corrective action.
The board of each business is related matters for reporting to the Audit committee as appropriate.
required to confirm annually that it has complied with these policies and procedures.
The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all employees and states that all employees have a responsibility for High level controls fraud prevention and detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational level and centrally, with variances The committee holds private meetings with the external auditors after being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and each committee meeting, and with the Director of Financial Control operational level is monitored constantly and variances from as appropriate but at least annually, to review key issues within their expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
spheres of interest and responsibility.
36 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 A significant part of the groups cash reserves is managed by 1.
Food safety independent fund managers operating within detailed guidelines The Company derives over 55% of its turnover from the production specified by the group relating to, inter alia, permitted investments and sale of food.
Food products include bread, crispbreads, flour, and counterparties, currency exposures and approved instruments.
rice, noodles, teas, sugar and sweeteners, vegetable oils, cakes, The balance of the groups cash reserves is managed by its treasury meat and dairy products.
function in accordance with guidelines referred to in the Financial review on page 23.
To manage food safety risks, our sites operate food safety systems which are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain effective, Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital including compliance with all regulatory requirements for hygiene expenditure and investment decisions encompassing budgets, and food safety.
Our food products are made to high standards appraisal and review procedures and levels of authority.
regardless of where they are manufactured.
The group always puts food safety before economic considerations.
Internal audit The groups businesses employ internal auditors both employees British Sugar plc encourages farmers to minimise herbicides and and resources provided by Ernst & Young where appropriate with pesticides and Associated British Foods plc as a whole markets a skills and experience relevant to the operation of each business, with wide range of organic foods and animal feeds.
the exception of four businesses within Grocery, where independent peer review audits are carried out.
All of the internal audit activities 2.
Supply chain labour standards are co-ordinated centrally by the groups Director of Financial Companies in our sector, especially those with global supply Control, who is accountable to the Audit committee.
chains, are at greater risk of controversies relating to breaches by suppliers of the International Labour Organisation core labour All group businesses are required to comply with the groups standards.
The group mitigates this risk of possible damage to its financial control framework that sets out minimum control reputation by working hard to ensure that it does not buy from standards.
A key function of the groups internal audit resources factories with poor working conditions.
Primark requires all the is to undertake audits to ensure compliance with the financial factories that manufacture its clothes to sign up to Primarks control framework and make recommendations for improvement Supplier Code of Conduct which lays out strict guidelines on in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit also conduct regular working conditions.
Primarks buyers visit all factories before reviews to ensure that risk management procedures and controls they start working with them and will not buy from factories with are adhered to.
The Audit committee receives regular reports obviously poor conditions.
In addition, every year the Company on the results of internal audits work and monitors the status of sends independent auditors to a selection of factories to check recommendations arising.
The Audit committee reviews annually that they are keeping to our standards.
In this way we try to ensure the adequacy of the groups internal audit resources and the that the factories around the world that make our clothes do so in nature and scope of internal audit activity in the overall context a responsible way.
of the groups risk management system set out below.
The Director of Financial Control meets with the chairman of the Audit Primark is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, an alliance committee as appropriate but at least annually, without the of companies, trade unions and non-profit organisations that aims presence of executive management, and has direct access to the to promote respect for the rights of people in factories and farms Chairman of the board.
The Company is committed to monitoring and progressively improving the conditions of the people that make its products.
Risk Management Review The risk management process in Associated British Foods plc Twinings is a member of the Ethical Tea Partnership which seeks to enable the early identification, evaluation and effective requires its suppliers and subcontractors to meet the International management of the key risks facing the businesses at operational Labour Organisation core labour standards, respecting an level and to operate internal controls, which adequately mitigate observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms without these risks.
The key risks and internal control procedures are discrimination as to race, sex, language or religion.
reviewed by group personnel together with internal audit activities.
Each business is responsible for regularly assessing its risk 3.
Competition rules management activities to ensure good practice in all areas.
The penalties for failing to comply with the 1998 Competition Act, Compliance with group requirements is monitored six monthly, relevant EU law and all relevant competition legislation are and these assessments are formally reviewed by group personnel recognised as risks to be managed within the group.
Clear policy at least annually.
The Audit committee receives reports on internal direction, which includes compulsory awareness training and close financial control issues from management and from the external support from the internal legal department, has reduced the auditors and regularly reports to the board for the purposes of the likelihood of the group breaching these regulations.
Environment The principal corporate risks as identified by each business and Associated British Foods plc recognises the impact that its noted by the board are currently: businesses have on the environment.
Therefore, as a minimum, 37 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued we aim to comply with current applicable legislation of the countries Water in which we operate, and our operations are conducted with a view In 2005, our factories used 65 million tonnes of water from to ensuring that: a variety of sources.
We treat all our cooling and waste water and recharge it, cleansed, into the environment.
The acquisition emissions to air, releases to water and land filling of solid wastes of the AB Mauri yeast and ingredients factories, whose processes do not cause unacceptable environmental impacts and do not require considerable quantities of water, increased our water offend the community: consumption.
The increase has been partly offset by savings in existing factories.
significant plant and process changes are assessed and positively authorised in advance to prevent adverse environmental impacts: Solid waste In 2005, our operations generated some 283,000 tonnes of energy and natural resources are used efficiently and energy waste for disposal, of which 1,000 tonnes were classified as hazardous consumption is monitored and raw material waste is minimised: waste.
This is 14% less waste than in 2004.
The quantity of waste finally disposed equates to an average of 2.3% of the tonnage of solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled where practicable: products a highly efficient use of raw materials.
Independent verification reports are available on the Companys website: the amount of packaging used for group products is minimised, www.
co. uk consistent with requirements for food safety and product protection: 5.
Health and safety products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, We consider health and safety as equal in importance to that consistent with customers demands, production arrangements of any other function of the Company and its business objectives.
and vehicle fleet operations: and We seek to provide a safe and healthy workplace and system of work in line with local regulations in order to protect all effective emergency response procedures are in place to minimise employees, visitors and the public, insofar as they come into the impact of foreseeable incidents.
contact with foreseeable work hazards.
Our employees are expected to adopt a proactive attitude towards this end.
We Energy will continue to develop safety awareness amongst all employees The efficient use of energy is a major element of our environmental and will measure, manage and further improve our health and policy.
Our manufacturing operations in the UK are participating in safety performance.
the UK Governments Climate Change Agreement Scheme to reduce specific energy consumption and thereby reduce emissions of Fatalities carbon dioxide and combat the serious threat of climate change.
We very much regret that there were two deaths in our factories Sites which are subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control during the year.
One involved rotating machinery and the other regime are also under a statutory requirement to minimise energy involved a mechanical tail-lift fitted to a delivery vehicle.
They were consumption by use of best available techniques.
both fully investigated by our own experts and by the external regulatory authorities.
In 2005, our factories and stores consumed 10,600 GWh of energy, of which 44% was consumed outside the UK.
Given the variety of Injuries our operations there is a correspondingly wide range in the amount In 2005 we reported 666 injuries to the regulators.
There was an of energy they consume per tonne of product manufactured.
increase in the absolute number of injuries in 2005 due to the acquisition of 44 more factories, both in the UK and internationally.
Although the absolute quantity of energy used by the Company However, there were good performances and safety improvements has grown over time this is a reflection of the growth of the group.
in the established ABF companies.
Currency commodity energy price fluctuation Carbon dioxide, a gas which contributes to climate change, is In common with other global businesses in our sectors, the group emitted both directly by the combustion of fossil fuels at our sites is exposed to risks from currency fluctuations and changes in to create steam, heat and electricity, and indirectly by the power commodity and energy prices.
Group businesses operate strict stations from which we buy our electricity.
The energy generated hedging and procurement policies, assisted by the group treasury from the burning of bagasse, sugar cane waste, is rated as CO function, to mitigate the effects of volatility in these areas.
The group 2 neutral as it is a renewable energy source and accounted for 12% has a treasury policy to which group businesses must adhere when of ABFs energy usage.
The use of bagasse eliminates the need implementing risk management strategies.
to use virgin fossil fuels and last year prevented the emission of approximately 400,000 tonnes of CO. 2 Our use of energy in 2005 led to the emission of 2.45 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, either directly or indirectly, worldwide.
38 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7.
Loss of a major site The group operates from many key sites the loss of which, for example as a result of fire, would present significant operational difficulties.
Our operations have business continuity plans in place to manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
This readiness to deal with the unexpected is exemplified by the response to the potentially catastrophic fire which destroyed Primarks major UK warehouse in November 2005, when alternative arrangements were quickly made to continue supply of stock to Primark stores, and minimise disruption.
39 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2006
