GOVERNANCE AND POLICY The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, as revised by the Financial Reporting Council in 2006, requires UK listed companies to make a disclosure statement on the application of the Principles and  compliancewiththe Provisionsof the Code.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and considers that it has complied withall relevant provisionsof the Code adopted in2006 throughoutthe year, except that: i. no member of the Audit Committee has a professional qualification from one of the professional accountancy bodies as recommended by the Smith Guidance.
However, the Board considers that all members have relevant financial experience as senior executives of large corporations.
The Board further considers that the members of the Audit Committee have the skills and experience of corporate financial matters to discharge properly the Committees responsibilities.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent, as defined by the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, and meet the definition of financial expert inthe Sarbanes-Oxley Act inthe US: and ii.
the notice period for David Illingworth as a new internally appointed director is up to 24 months from the date of appointment to the Board.
Such notice period reduces to 12 months after the expiry of the initial term, in line with the Code.
The Board considered that such notice period was required in line with competitive practice for external appointments.
In accordance with the Code, the following paragraphs describe Smith & Nephews Corporate Governance policiesand procedures and howit applies the Principlesand  CombinedCode.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the NYSE and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as the US securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board believes that it has complied throughout the year with both SEC and NYSE requirements related to corporate governance except that, in accordance with the Combined Code, the Nominations Committee consists of a majority of independent directors and does not consist wholly of independent directors, as required by the NYSE.
The Board The Board of Directors of Smith & Nephew consists of an independent non-executive Chairman, three executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
In 2006, the Board met on nine occasions and individual attendance together with attendance at Board Committee meetings, is shown in the table on page 56.
If directors are unable to attend a Board meeting or Board Committee meeting, they are advised of matters to be discussed and have an opportunityto make their views knownto the Chairmanpriorto the meeting.
The Board is responsible for the strategic direction and overall management of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which include the approval of certain policies, budgets, financing plans, large capital expenditure projects, acquisitions, divestments and treasury arrangements.
Otherwise it delegates the executive management of the Group to the Chief Executive and certain specific responsibilities to Board Committees, as described on pages 55 to 56.
It reviews the key activities and performance of the businesses and considers and reviews the work undertaken by the Committees.
Succession planning is regularly reviewed and appropriate measures are taken to ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experience necessary for a major global medical devices company.
Non-executive directors meet regularly prior to each Board meeting without management in attendance and the Senior Independent Director meets with the other non-executive directors annually to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Board meetings are held at the major business units enabling directors to have a greater understanding of the business and to meet the management of these units.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and, if necessary, to independent professional advice.
Induction programmes are provided for new directors and training is offered to all directors.
In 2006, additional training was provided to directors on corporate governance issues and an internal on-line resource was developed for on-going corporate governance developments.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible to the Board for ensuringthat board and governanceprocedures are compliedwith.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is in place and Deeds of Indemnity have been entered into between the Company and directors following changes to the Companies Act 1985 and the approval given by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
The Deeds of Indemnity allow for indemnification of directors in respect of 54 proceedings brought by third parties and for the Company to provide funds for directors ongoing costs in defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgement has been given.
Individual directors would still be liable to pay any damages awarded to the Company in an action against them and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Companyif their defence is unsuccessful.
Whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Group, there is a clear division of respective responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board including setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible for managing and supervising the business of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board.
The Chief Operating Officer reporting to the Chief Executive is responsible for the management and performance of the four business units and the Indirect Market unit.
The Senior Independent Director is Dr. Rolf Stomberg, whose role includes consulting with members of the Board on issues relating to the Chairman and chairing meetings of the Nominations and Audit Committee in the absence of the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is available to shareholders if they have concernsthat cannot be resolved through the normal channels of contact with the ChairmanorChief Executive.
In view of the retirement of the Chairman and Group Finance Director in 2006, Dr. Stomberg, having served nine years as a director, has been asked to continue to serve as a director for up to a further three years.
He brings considerable experience and stability to the Board and acts in an independent and questioning manner at Board meetings.
TheBoard therefore is of the view that he remains independent.
In 2004, a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was undertaken by an external consultant.
This was followed up in 2005 and 2006 with an internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees led by the Senior Independent Director with the emphasis on continuous improvement and effectiveness.
In 2006, the evaluation was effected through a confidential questionnaire and discussions with the Senior Independent Director.
Whilst some points relating to process between meetings arose from the review it concluded that the Board continues to function effectively as a team and to manage the direction of the Group appropriately, and the Board Committees continueto functioneffectively and discharge their duties in the manner prescribed by their charters.
Individual evaluation of the directors is carried out by the NominationsCommittee with particular emphasis on the evaluation of those directors standing for re-appointment at the AGM.
The non-executive directors, led by the SeniorIndependent Director, evaluate the performanceof the Chairman.
The Board has determined that none of the non-executive directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the Group.
They are therefore considered independent.
They do not receive additional remuneration apart from directors fees, do not participate in the Groups share option schemes or performance related pay schemes, and are not members of the Groups pension schemes.
No director of Smith & Nephew is a director of a company or an affiliate in which any other director of Smith & Nephew is a director.
None of the directors or Executive Officers or any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same address as the director or officer, or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of Smith & Nephew has any family relationship with any other directors or officers nor has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or were a party from the beginning of fiscal year 2005 to 15 March2007.
Details of the Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are included in the RemunerationReport.
Board Committees The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees, each of which has its own terms of reference, which may be found on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the committees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee met on six occasions in 2006 individual attendance is shown in the table on page 56.
The Committee, consisting entirely of independent non-executive directors, is chaired by Warren D. Knowlton.
He was 55 Corporate Governance appointed to the Committee in February 2001 and became Chairman of the Committee in July 2001.
The other members of the Committee are Brian Larcombe who was appointed to the Committee in January 2003, Richard fide Schutter who was appointed in February 2001 and Dr. Rolf Stomberg who was appointed in February 1998.
The Chairman of the Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
A descriptionof the workof the Committee in2006 is onpage 58.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, consisting entirely of independent non-executive directors, met three times in 2006 individual attendance is shown in the table below and is chaired by Dr. Rolf Stomberg.
The other members of the Committee are Dr. Pamela Kirby, Warren Knowlton and Richard fide Schutter.
The Remuneration Committee sets the pay and benefits of the executive directors and Executive Officers, approves their main terms of employment and determines share options and long-term incentive arrangements for the Group.
It also reviews seniormanagement successionplanning.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, consisting of two independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive, met twice in 2006 and its Chairman, John Buchanan, and members, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Sir Christopher ODonnell, attended all meetings.
The Committee oversees the Boards plans for succession, recommends appointments to the Board and determines the fees of the non-executive directors.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Candidate profiles are agreed by the Committee before external consultants are engaged to advise on prospective Board appointees.
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee who then recommend candidates to be interviewed by all members of the Board.
The final decision is made by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director oversees the process for the appointment of a new Chairman.
Thisprocess was followed for  to the Board.
Board and Committee Attendance Remuneration Audit Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 3 meetings 6 meetings 2 meetings JohnBuchanan............................... 9 n a n a 2 Sir ChristopherODonnell....................... 9 n a n a 2 Adrian Hennah i............................. 5 n a n a n a David J. Illingworth............................ 9 n a n a n a Dr. Pamela J. Kirby............................ 9 3 n a n a WarrenD.
iii Retired asFinance Directoron 30 June 2006.
 Under Smith & Nephews articles of association, any director who has been appointed by the Board of Directors since the previous annual general meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the next annual general meeting and then is eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
Subsequently, directors retire and offer themselves for re-election at the third annual general meeting after the meeting at which they were last reappointed.
The directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Executive Officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Adrian Hennah was appointed a director by the Board on 15 June 2006 and, in accordance with the articles of association, will retire at the annual general meeting to be held in May 2007 and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
In accordance with the articles of association, Sir ChristopherODonnell, WarrenKnowlton, Richard fide Schutter and Dr. Rolf Stomberg willretire and, being eligible, willoffer themselves for re-electionat the AGM.
