ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewingtheir effectiveness.
These systems, whichaccordwiththe TurnbullGuidance, have been in place for 2006 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts, involve: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee, whichreports to the Board annually:business reviews by the Board of each of the business units: and the review by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risks that couldadversely impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee is comprised of the executive directors and the Executive Officers of the Group and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, management at each of the business units identify the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
Areas of potential major impact are reported to the Risk Committee for review at its meetings whichare held twice a year.
The annual Group Risk Report of the Risk Committee to the Board details all principal risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price.
The most significant Group risks are reported to the Board quarterly, which include new key or significantly increased risks along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks.
Theprincipalrisks are detailed inRisk Factors to be foundonpages 21 to 25.
In 2006 the effectiveness of the business units systems to identify and manage material risk were evaluated and the findingsreported to the Board.
Nomaterial weaknesses were identified inthese systems.
Managements Report on Internal Control overFinancial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined inRule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f underthe Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In accordance with the requirement in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2006.
In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded and hereby reports that, as at 31 December 2006, the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective based onthose criteria.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on managements assessment as of 31 December 2006 of the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internalcontrolover financialreporting.
DisclosuresCommittee and Evaluation of  Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
The secretary is the Company Secretary.
The Committee approves the releases of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority and the London and New York stock exchanges.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2006.
Based upon, and as of the date of, that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
57 Corporate Governance Codes of BusinessPrinciples The Codes of Business Principles, which include a whistleblowing policy are available at www.
com sustainability and are available on request, apply to all directors, officers and employees.
Any breaches of the  and the Audit Committee.
During 2006 and up until 15 March 2007 there have been no breaches of the Codesand .
Code of Ethics for SeniorFinancial Officers The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which is available at www.
com sustainability and is available on request.
It applies to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisionsnorany amendments made to the Code during2006 orup until15 March2007.
Activitiesof the Audit Committee for 2006 TheAudit Committees remit, whichis set out inits terms of reference, : monitoring the integrity of the Groups accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and  and  containedinthem:  to the Groups financialperformance: monitoringand reviewingthe effectiveness of the Groups internalaudit function: recommending to the Board, for shareholder approval, regarding the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as appropriate: approvingthe remunerationand terms of engagement of the external auditors: monitoringand reviewingthe external auditors independenceand the effectiveness of the audit process: pre-approval of the external auditors to supply non-auditservices: monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls and reviewing compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: reviewingthe operationof the riskmanagement process: and reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the Group regarding financial reporting orother matters.
TheGroup has specific policieswhichgovern: the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors which prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors duringthe year were pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and audit partner rotation, which is in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years has expired sincetheir previous involvementwiththe Group.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of management attend the meetings when necessary and the external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets without management in attendance, when appropriate, and meets with the auditors, without management present, from time to time.
 of the Audit Committee duringthe year ended 31 December 2006 included: considerationof the quarterly, interimand preliminaryresults and the annualaccounts: considerationof the Groups compliancewiths404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: 58 a review of the Groups approachto , its processes, outcomesand disclosures: a review of the Internal Review departments activities for the year, together with its resource requirements and findings: a review of : a review of the reports from the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on their professional and regulatory compliance inorder to  objectivity, includingthe rotationof partners: a review of the audit, audit-related and tax services provided by Ernst & YoungLLP: review and the pre-approval of all services provided by the auditors during the year including all non-audit work performed by the auditors together with associated fees, to ensure that the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Group was not compromised.
Ernst & Young LLP only provided  of accountingand tax related matters: consideration of Ernst & Young LLPs in-depth reports to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and controland : a review of the effectiveness of the performance of Ernst & Young LLP effected by the completion of a questionnaireby the units audited withinthe Group and by the members of the Committee: recommendingthe re-appointmentof Ernst & YoungLLPas the Groups auditors: confirmation that no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of  matters: reviewing the Committees terms of reference to ensure they reflect developments in corporate governance inthe UK and the US: considerationof the Groups riskmanagement process: and an evaluation of its own performance during the year, effected by means of a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The Committee may obtain legal and other independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as it deems necessary.
Duringthe year, nosuchadvice was sought by the Committee.
Auditrelated fees principally include accounting consultation in relation to International Financial Reporting Standards and advice regarding compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
Tax fees include tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services.
All other fees relate to those incurred in relation to the bid related costs for Biomet Inc. A more detailed breakdownof audit fees may be foundinNote 36 of the Notes to the Accounts.
Disclosureof Information to the Auditors In accordance with s234ZA of the Companies Act, the directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish that the auditors are aware of such information.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, which have been approved by the Audit Committee, willbe proposed at the AGM.
59 Corporate Governance [THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLYLEFT BLANK] 60
