36 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report Compliance with the Combined Code strategy and developments affecting the Company.
Additional Throughout the accounting period covered by this report 1 August meetings are arranged as necessary to deal with urgent items.
2005 to 5 August 2006, the Company has been in full compliance The Board sets the Companys values and standards and has with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 issue adopted a Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics the Code applicable under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing which is referred to on page 26.
Authority, with one exception the Chairman is a member of the Remuneration Committee which is now permitted by the June 2006 The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the version of the Code.
The Board continues to consider that the executive directors present at least three times per annum.
The Chairman should participate in decisions concerning remuneration senior independent director meets the other non-executive directors of the executive directors and that his membership of the Committee without the Chairman present at least annually.
helps to ensure that the Companys remuneration policy is aligned Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the with its strategic objectives.
benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Code requires listed companies to report how the main and The following table shows the number of scheduled Board and Board supporting principles of the Code have been applied, giving enough Committee meetings held during the period ended 5 August 2006 detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the report, and to state and opposite each directors name the number of meetings attended.
whether there has been compliance with the provisions of the Code, However, directors attend many other meetings and visits during the giving an explanation for any points of non-compliance.
The Board views directors contributions as measured beyond this report to principles and provisions are to those of the Code from simplistic meeting attendance records.
which the following headings are taken.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number held 8463 Directors The Board D H Brydon 863 The first main principle requires the Company to have an effective K O Butler-Wheelhouse 8 Board which is collectively responsible for its success.
Supporting Sir Nigel Broomfield 746 principles describe the Boards role to provide entrepreneurial D J Challen 846 leadership within a framework of controls that allow risk to be J Ferrie 8 assessed and managed.
The Board should set strategic aims and the Companys values, ensuring that obligations to shareholders are Sir Julian Horn-Smith 7 1 1 6 met.
Non-executive directors have a particular role in overseeing the P J Jackson 843 development of strategy, scrutinising management performance and J Langston 8 ensuring the integrity of financial information and systems of risk D P Lillycrop 8 management.
The Board is satisfied that it has met these requirements.
R W OLeary 8 3 3 4 2 2 During the last year the membership of the Board has changed.
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 4 4 2 2 1 1 Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, a non-executive director, resigned from Sir Kevin Tebbit 0 1 0 0 0 0 the Board on 27 February 2006 and Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed A M Thomson 8 as a non-executive director on 14 June 2006.
Sadly Mr OLeary died The figure in brackets indicates the maximum number of meetings the director could on 14 August 2006.
Mr Thomson retired as Finance Director have attended in view of the period during which he was a Board or Committee member.
on 6 September 2006 and he was succeeded on that date by indicates not a member of that Committee in 2005 06 Mr Langston, who had been appointed Finance Director designate with effect from 1 August 2006.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith, who has Chairman and Chief Executive been a non-executive director since February 2000, will retire at the Another main principle requires a clear division of responsibilities conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 21 November 2006. between the running of the Board and executive responsibility for running the business, so that no one person has unfettered powers As at 27 September 2006, the Board comprises Mr Brydon, of decision.
Chairman, Mr Butler-Wheelhouse, Chief Executive, three other executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The Board has met this requirement by establishing clearly defined Mr Jackson is the senior independent director.
Biographies of roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is these directors, giving details of their experience and other main responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness commitments, are set out on page 31.
The wide ranging experience and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure that they can Chief Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both financial objectives.
the development of strategy and performance against the goals set Board balance and independence by the Board.
The Company complies with the requirement of the Code that The Board normally holds formal meetings at least eight times there should be a balance of executive and non-executive directors a year to make and review major business decisions and monitor such that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards current trading against plans which it has approved.
Throughout the period the Company complied exercises control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in with the requirements that at least half the Board, excluding the a formal schedule which only the Board may change: these matters Chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
include the acquisition of companies, the issue of shares, significant In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees management processes and major capital expenditure.
Once a year is taken into account.
the Board meets in conference with a particular focus on long-term 37 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and and operation of the Board.
For the Board Committees, the matters Mr Brydon was, in compliance with the Code, considered independent addressed included the appropriateness of their responsibilities, the at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
logistics of their meetings, the availability of internal and external support and the composition and operation of the Committees.
The Appointments to the Board questionnaire relating to each directors performance addressed The Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent several issues including the directors contribution at Board Meetings, procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be with particular reference to the development of strategy and risk made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Nomination management, how effectively the director refreshes his knowledge Committee fulfils these requirements and its report is set out on and skills and, specifically for each non-executive director, his page 39. willingness to devote time and effort for the benefit of the Company.
Information and professional development The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led by the senior Another main principle requires that information of appropriate independent director who obtained the views of both the executive quality is supplied to the Board in a timely manner and that, in and non-executive directors.
addition to induction programmes on joining the Company, directors should regularly update their skills and knowledge.
Re-election Under the Code directors should offer themselves for re-election The Board is provided with detailed information several days in at regular intervals and there should be a planned and progressive advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and nonrefreshing of the Board.
executive directors have ready access to the executive directors.
Regular site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three encouraged to visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings years and reappointment for a second term is not automatic.
In are arranged and the Board is free to discuss aspects of the business exceptional circumstances and only after rigorous review, a nonwith employees at all levels.
executive director may serve for a third term.
Any non-executive director who has served for more than nine years is subject to annual Newly-appointed directors undergo a structured induction re-election.
Directors stand for reappointment by the shareholders programme to ensure that they have the necessary knowledge at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and understanding of the Company and its activities.
Starting at and subsequently at least every three years.
The report from the the time of their appointment, and continuing on an incremental Nomination Committee set out on page 39 explains the process for basis over the first six months, they undertake briefing sessions on selection of directors and succession planning.
corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk management and HR strategy, as well as meetings and site visits to Remuneration business locations in the UK and overseas.
Each directors individual Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on experience and background is taken into account in developing a page 39 and the Directors remuneration report is on pages 40 to 47. programme tailored to his own requirements.
Accountability and audit Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary.
The suitability Financial reporting of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable who is charged with facilitating the induction of new directors and assessment of the Companys position and prospects, not only in with assisting in the ongoing training and development of directors.
the Annual Report and Accounts but also in the Summary Financial Statement, and in interim and other public reports.
The Board is All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 48. professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
The going concern statement required by the Code is set out in the Performance evaluation Group directors report on page 33.
The Code requires the Board to undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees Internal control and the directors.
The Board is satisfied that it continues to meet The Code requires the Company to maintain a sound system of these requirements.
It is confirmed that all the non-executive internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Companys assets.
The Board must review the effectiveness of Company, that the Chairman does not hold the office of chairman of the internal control system at least annually, covering all material another FTSE100 company and that no executive director holds more controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE100 company.
and risk management systems, and report to shareholders that they have done so.
The 1999 Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees Authority, provides guidance for compliance with that part of the Code.
and the directors was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires that were designed by an independent senior academic and were The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and completed by each director.
The answers to the questionnaires a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor formed the basis of a review by the whole Board, led by the Chairman compliance with procedures.
The procedures for accountability and and the senior academic.
Regarding the Board, comments were control, which accord with the guidance on internal control issued invited on a wide range of issues including the appropriateness of by the Turnbull Committee, are outlined below.
matters specifically reserved for the Board, its contribution to the The Board accepts its responsibility for maintaining and reviewing development and review of strategy, the terms of reference of its the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems.
These Committees, the effectiveness of the process for identifying and are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks managing risks, logistics of Board Meetings and the composition 38 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued to which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only management.
At the time of appointment of new non-executive reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material loss to the directors they are available to meet shareholders on request.
Company or material misstatement in the financial accounts.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Group has an embedded process for the identification, All directors normally attend the Companys Annual General Meeting evaluation and management of significant business risks.
The and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting process is reviewed through the Audit Committee and monitored by and to meet directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
the Group Internal Audit Department.
The Company has during the Shareholders have, at previous meetings, been advised as to the level year identified and evaluated the key risks under three categories of proxy votes received including the percentages for and against and strategic: operational: and information and has ensured that the abstentions in respect of each resolution following each vote on a effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
It is intended that there shall be a poll vote on each resolution at the 2006 AGM.
In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating It is confirmed that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and procedures manuals and are reinforced by regular educational Nomination Committees were available at the 2005 AGM to answer programmes.
These are designed to ensure compliance not only shareholders questions, that all directors were in attendance and with the regulatory requirements but also with general principles that notice of the AGM and related papers were sent to shareholders of business integrity.
twenty working days before the meeting.
A key element in any system is communication and a number of Board Committees committees enable the executive directors and senior corporate The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are staff to address financial, human resource, risk management and available upon request and on the Companys website.
Experience is shared by subsidiaries through Audit Committee company-wide seminars.
From 1 August 2005 to 27 February 2006 the Audit Committee Throughout the period the Board, through the Audit Committee, has comprised Mr Challen, as Chairman of the Committee, Sir Nigel reviewed the effectiveness of internal control and the management Broomfield, Mr Jackson, Mr OLeary and Lord Robertson of Port of risks at its regular Board meetings.
In addition to financial and Ellen.
On 27 February 2006 Lord Robertson resigned from the business reports, the Board has reviewed medium and longer-term Board, on 14 March 2006 Sir Julian Horn-Smith replaced Mr OLeary strategic plans: capital expenditure and development programmes: as a member of the Committee and Sir Kevin Tebbit joined the management and product development programmes: reports on key Committee on 12 July 2006.
From that date the Committee operational issues: tax: treasury: risk management: insurance: legal comprised Mr Challen, as Chairman of the Committee, Sir Nigel matters: and Audit Committee reports, including internal and Broomfield, Mr Jackson, Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Board has determined that the Committee members have the Audit Committee and Auditor skills and experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the A principle of the Code is that the Board should establish formal Committees deliberations.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee and transparent arrangements for considering how it should has requisite experience in accounting and financial management.
apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for The Committee meets at least three times per year.
Under its terms maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditor, of reference, the Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys  LLP.
This obligation is satisfied through financial statements and the effectiveness of the external audit the work of the Audit Committee which is described on this page.
The Committee also monitors Corporate Governance Relations with shareholders issues and, in particular, the implementation of the Companys Dialogue with shareholders Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics and the The Company is required to have a dialogue with shareholders, based arrangements for employees to raise anonymously concerns about on the mutual understanding of objectives, and it is the responsibility possible wrongdoing in financial reporting and other matters.
It is of the Board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the take place.
Company and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees and implementing the Companys audit The Code recognises that primary contacts are likely to be by the partner rotation policy.
The Committee has primary responsibility Chief Executive and the Finance Director but requires the Chairman for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, and senior independent director, and other directors as appropriate, reappointment and removal of the external auditor.
to maintain contact with major shareholders in order to understand their concerns.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating The Finance Director and the Director, Investor Relations, the risks facing the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of the internal communicate with institutional investors through analysts briefings audit function and is responsible for approving the appointment and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and continental and removal of the Director, Internal Audit.
The Committee reviews Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements, meetings annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness and recommends with management and site visits.
Members of the Board, and in to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
particular non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors views in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers In July 2006 the Board amended the Committees terms of reference briefings.
At least twice a year a report is made to the Board on to reflect the Committees increased emphasis upon Risk Assessment the number and types of meetings between the Company and Management and to formalise the process by which the Committee, in institutional shareholders.
The Chairman is available in the event reviewing the effectiveness of the audit, obtains assurance that there of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are not aware.
39 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued In the year to 5 August 2006, the Audit Committee discharged its The Committees responsibilities are described in the Directors responsibilities by reviewing: Remuneration Report on page 40. the Groups 2005 financial statements and 2006 interim results The Committee meets periodically when required but at least three statement prior to Board approval and the external auditors times per annum.
No one other than the members of the Committee detailed reports thereon: is entitled to be present at meetings but the non-executive directors who are not members of the Committee and the Chief Executive are the Companys 2005 full year results restated under the normally invited to attend and external advisers may be invited by the International Financial Reporting Standards and a draft of the Committee to attend.
No executive is present when the Committee IFRS announcement released in November 2005: considers matters relating to himself or acts in matters relating to the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Groups external himself.
Mr Brydon is absent when his own remuneration as auditor: Chairman of the Company is under discussion.
the external auditors effectiveness and plan for the audit of the The Committee has access to such information and advice both from Groups 2005 06 accounts, which included confirmations of auditor within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in of engagement for the audit: respect of executive directors remuneration.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends to an annual report on the Groups systems of internal control the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas Nomination Committee of financial control: From 1 August 2005 to 27 February 2006 the Nomination Committee comprised Mr Brydon, as Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jackson the risks associated with major business programmes: and and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen.
On 27 February 2006 Mr OLeary the internal audit functions terms of reference, its 2005 06 work replaced Lord Robertson as a member of the Committee and Sir programme and regular reports on its work during the year.
Kevin Tebbit joined the Committee on 12 July 2006.
As previously mentioned, Mr OLeary died on 14 August 2006.
From that date the The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its Committee comprised Mr Brydon, as Chairman of the Committee, terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and Mr Jackson and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
The Committee leads the process for identifying, and makes No one other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be recommendations to the Board regarding, candidates for present at meetings.
However, the Chairman and the non-executive appointment as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, directors who are not members of the Committee, the Chief Executive, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership Finance Director, General Counsel, Group Financial Controller, needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on Director, Internal Audit and external auditor are normally invited the composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition to attend.
Others may be invited to attend by the Committee.
The and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It papers for and Minutes of each Committee Meeting are sent to all reviews regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, directors.
At least once a year, there is an opportunity for the external including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the auditor, the Director, Internal Audit and the Director of Business independence of the non-executive directors, and makes Ethics to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Director, Internal Audit, the Director of Business Ethics and the external auditor have direct access to the The Committee meets periodically when required.
No one other than Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but the non-executive directors who are not members of the Committee The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under review and the Chief Executive are normally invited to attend and external the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external advisers may be invited by the Committee to attend.
auditor in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
Under the audit independence policy, approved by the The Committee has access to such information and advice both Committee, certain non-audit services may not be provided by the from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, external auditor, certain services require the approval of the Finance as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external Director and other services require the approval of the Chairman of search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee reviews the Committee.
Where the cost of the services is expected to exceed annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends 100,000, the engagement will normally be subject to competitive to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The external auditor has in place processes to ensure that The procedures referred to above were used by the Nomination its independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that Committee in the appointment of Sir Kevin Tebbit as a non-executive where it does provide non-audit services, its independence is not director with effect from 14 June 2006 and Mr Langston as Finance threatened.
The external auditor has written to the Audit Committee Director with effect from 6 September 2006. confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Sir Julian Horn-Smith, as Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brydon, Sir Nigel Broomfield and Messrs Challen and OLeary.
