SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 32 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the group has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate governance the Combined Code or the Code, as described below and, in connection with directors remuneration, in the directors remuneration report.
Board composition and Company manages a portfolio of long term, independence complex projects and benefits from long serving The Board of Directors, whose names and Directors with detailed knowledge of the biographical details are set out on pages 28 to 29, Companys operations and with the proven comprises nine Directors in addition to the commitment, experience and competence to Chairman.
Five of these nine, including the Senior effectively advise and oversee the Companys Independent Director, have been identified in the management on behalf of shareholders.
The Directors Report on page 31 as independent NonCompany does not impose fixed term limits Executive Directors in accordance with the Boards as this would assure a loss of experience and responsibility for determining whether a director knowledge without assurance of increased is independent in character and judgement.
However, particular scrutiny is Notwithstanding this, each of the Companys applied in assessing the continued independence Directors strictly abides by their legal and ethical of Directors having served over nine years, with duties owed to the Company to act objectively attention to ensuring their allegiance remains and in the best interests of the Company and clearly aligned with shareholders.
In conducting its current assessment the Board The Board assesses the independence of has considered whether each Director continues each Non-Executive Director at least annually, to exhibit those qualities and behaviours it giving full consideration to those circumstances considers essential for Non-Executive Directors that the Code states may appear relevant.
Consideration In considering tenure exceeding nine years, was additionally given to the results of individual the Board recognises that an individuals evaluation and continued satisfactory independence cannot be determined arbitrarily performance.
Particular scrutiny was applied on the basis of a set period of time.
The in assessing the continued independence of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Mr Peter Kingston, Mr John Norton, and of the Company.
The Board functions as a Mr John Snyder, each having served on the unitary body, within which Directors assume Board since 1997.
The Board has determined certain roles to ensure the Board as a whole that each of these Directors, in addition to fulfils its responsibilities.
These roles, including Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts, Committee memberships, are designed to is independent in character and judgement and maximise the effective contribution of each free from any relationships or circumstances of the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, which are likely to affect, or could appear to its Committees and to the Executive Directors, affect, their judgement.
while ensuring an appropriate balance is maintained.
The composition of the Board reappointment and and its Committees is in accordance with Code reFreshing oF the Board guidelines.
No Director serves on more than Directors are subject to reappointment at two Committees.
At least annually, the Nonleast every three years.
Reappointment is Executive Directors meet without the Executives recommended in consideration of the results present and, led by the Senior Independent of individual evaluation and demonstrated Director, meet without the Chairman present.
continued satisfactory performance, commitment Such meetings are conducted in the spirit of and effectiveness.
Consideration is additionally good governance and process, and are intended given to the balance of the Boards composition to ensure a forum for open dialogue without and the need for refreshment.
A Non-Executive disruption of Board unity.
Director term exceeding six years is subject to particularly rigorous review, and a term exceeding The Chairman and the Chief Executive nine years is subject to annual reappointment.
collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairmans primary The Board embraces the underlying principles responsibility is for leading the Board and the Board of Code provisions regarding tenure and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike is responsible for leading the executives and emBraCes the an appropriate balance between continuity ensuring their effectiveness in the running underlying of experience and succession.
The Company of the Companys business.
Their division of undertakes projects requiring long term cycles responsibilities is set by the Board.
Together prinCiples of from licence negotiation to first production.
they are responsible for promoting the highest Code provisions Its Vietnam programme is of major significance standards of integrity and probity.
to the Company, with first production targeted regarding in 2008.
The current Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors are responsible for comprise an appropriate balance of skills and implementing the Boards agreed strategy tenure and experience.
Additionally, they have acquired, through the development of an appropriate over a number of years, a sound and detailed business plan and for executing actions refreshing of knowledge of the Companys business and approved by the Board in accordance with the Board, and are uniquely qualified to contribute to the relevant authorities.
The Non-Executive Companys leadership at this critical stage.
Directors contribute to the development seeks to strike The continuity of their experience is of strategic proposals through constructive an appropriate considered to outweigh the potential benefits probing based on review and analysis of refreshment at this time.
The Company that brings to bear the unique skills and BalanCe has planned for a phased succession to allow knowledge each brings to the Board.
for both refreshment and a rebalance of the BetWeen skills required on the Board as it enters the The Executive Directors provide the leadership production phase in Vietnam.
of the senior managers in the day to day Continuity of running of the Groups business and manage experienCe and Board structure and process the Groups risk programmes including the The Board has four scheduled meetings a year environmental, health and safety performance suCCession and holds additional meetings as necessary.
They must ensure the The Board determines the Companys business Company has adequate financial and human strategy and provides the entrepreneurial resources to meet its objectives.
They are leadership required to ensure its strategic aims responsible for reporting the performance can be achieved.
The Board operates within a and strategic direction of the Group to the formal framework of decision making designed Board and for providing accurate, timely and to reserve matters of establishing the strategy, clear information to enable the Board to take business plan and nature or scope of the sound decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors Companys business to the Board.
Under this review managements performance and ensure framework, authority for implementing the strategy that the systems in place provide adequate and decisions taken by the Board is largely and effective financial control and risk delegated to the Executive Directors and management.
They must be satisfied that they management within a system of internal controls have sufficient information for the discharge designed to enable the risks of the Group to be of their duties, which may be achieved through managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has dialogue with management, training where established clear expectations for the Companys appropriate to update their knowledge or skills economic, social and environmental conduct to and consultation with independent professional promote the highest level of integrity and honesty advisors as required.
in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed SOCOs Board membership comprises by the Board, is responsible for facilitating the a broad range of skills, knowledge and communications and processes of the Board, experience, which is critical to the success both within the Board and its Committees and SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 34 3 with management, in compliance with Board Non-Executive Director, and additionally procedures and governance guidelines.
The comprises Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Secretary facilitates an induction programme on Roberts, both of whom are independent appointment that is tailored to a new Directors Non-Executive Directors.
The names and individual qualifications and experience.
The qualifications of each of the members are Secretary provides advice and service as may set out on pages 28 to 29.
The Committee be required in the ongoing discharge of the is responsible for recommending for approval Directors duties, including ensuring that the by the full Board the remuneration of the Company provides the necessary resources for Chairman, the Executive Directors and officers access to independent advice and individual of the Company and Group.
During 2006, the professional development needs.
Additionally, Committee conducted a review of its TOR and briefing sessions are provided in the course of of the effectiveness of its own performance.
regular Board meetings and Committee meetings Details of the Committees policies and on relevant issues as deemed appropriate.
objectives are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 47.
The table below sets out the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings and the audit committee report attendance of members at meetings of the Audit, The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Peter Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Kingston, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and additionally comprises Mr John committees The Board has established three Committees, Board and Committee meeting attendanCe as described below, each having formal terms audit remuneration nominations of reference TOR approved by the Board which Board committee committee committee set out its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, which are available for inspection, are no.
of meetings set in consideration of the provisions of the no.
attended Combined Code and are reviewed from time to R fide Sousa time in the context of evolving guidance.
Each Directors specific Committee memberships, P Kingston including as Chairmen, are set out on pages O Barbaroux 28 to 29.
Whilst only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings, other Directors are R Cagle invited to attend from time to time to ensure R Cathery the Committees responsibilities are undertaken E Contini with access to the Boards full breadth of knowledge and experience.
The Company J Norton Secretary ensures that the Company additionally M Roberts provides such resources as the Committees require in the discharge of their duties.
J Snyder E Story the remuneration committee P Maugein deceased The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Peter Kingston, the Senior Independent CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Norton and Mr Martin Roberts, both of whom the responsibility for advising the full Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
on compliance with the Combined Code, The names and qualifications of each of the including its internal control requirements, members are set out on pages 28 to 29. as well as compliance with evolving guidance The Board is satisfied that the collective on corporate governance issues generally.
experience of the members includes relevant and recent financial experience and provides The Committee held three meetings in 2006 the complement of skills required for the and has conducted one meeting to date in Committee to discharge its functions 2007, all of which were attended by executive effectively.
In particular, Mr Norton is a management and external auditors.
A private Chartered Accountant and former member of session, without executives present, was held the Oil Industry Accounting Committee.
The during two of these meetings.
Additionally, Committee meets at least three times a year.
a number of other informal meetings and The Chief Financial Officer and a representative communications took place between the of the external auditors are normally invited to Chairman, various Committee members, attend meetings.
Other Directors are invited to external auditors and the Companys executives attend as determined appropriate or beneficial.
The Committee reviewed and At least once a year the Committee meets with approved the terms and scope of the audit the external auditors without executive Board engagement, the audit plan and the results of members present.
the audit with the external auditors, including the scope of services associated with auditThe Committees primary responsibilities related regulatory reporting services.
An include reviewing the effectiveness of the assessment of the effectiveness of the audit Companys and the Groups systems of process was made, giving consideration to internal control, overseeing the selection reports from the auditors on their internal of and relationship with external auditors quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor and the review and monitoring of the integrity independence and objectivity was assessed, of financial statements.
The Committee is giving consideration to the rotation of responsible for review of the Groups major audit partners during the year and the financial, operational and corporate auditors confirmation that their responsibility risk management processes.
The effectiveness of these processes is monitored on a continuous basis and a The Remuneration Committee, with approval formal assessment is conducted at least of the Audit Committee, has independently annually.
The Committee has been delegated appointed the Companys auditor as advisors.
The advisors terms of reference restrict the provision of certain services in order to maintain auditor independence, and the scope and value of services to the Group is under continuous review.
Accordingly, any proposed non-audit service is submitted for Audit Committee review on a case by case basis, rather than by reference to preallowed or disallowed services, and regardless of size or scope.
The Committee approved the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2006, having concluded such services were compatible with auditor independence and were consistent with relevant ethical guidance.
Details of these services are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Board concurred with the Committees recommendation for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors for 2007.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 36 3 The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied review of Director independence, including with, the Companys arrangements whereby tenure in particular.
The Committee made staff may raise concerns regarding improprieties recommendations to the Board concerning in confidence, which would be addressed plans for succession which were developed with appropriate follow-up action.
On behalf in consideration of the need for refreshment of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the while taking into account the skills and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls experience needed on the Board to meet the and risk management systems, including specific challenges and opportunities facing consideration of an internal audit function, the Company.
The results of these reviews were which is more fully described in the Internal in turn utilised in developing the Committees Control section of the Corporate Governance recommendations for continuation in office, Report.
The Committee has reviewed and reappointment of retiring Directors and approved the related compliance statements appointment of the Chairman.
The Committee has additionally reviewed and approved the statements The Committee has a process in place for regarding compliance with the Combined Code.
identifying and nominating candidates to fill vacancies which may arise from time to The Committee reviewed and discussed time, including ensuring Board membership with management and the auditors the is sufficiently refreshed and retains an Companys relevant financial information prior appropriate balance of skills and experience.
to recommendation for Board approval.
This The Committee develops an appropriate included in particular the financial statements description of the role, estimated time and other material information presented in commitment and the capabilities which would the annual and interim reports and financial complement the composition of the Board and information related to the Companys issue of its Committees.
The Committee would expect convertible bonds.
The Committee considered to utilise an independent external advisor the significant financial reporting issues, to facilitate any search.
A diverse list of accounting policies and judgements impacting candidates is compiled and a rigorous review the financial statements, and the clarity of process undertaken, involving other Board disclosures.
The Committee conducted a members as deemed appropriate.
Committee review of its TOR and of the effectiveness recommendations are submitted for full Board of its own performance.
The Company Secretary facilitates induction upon appointment.
the nominations committee report The Nominations Committee is chaired by The Senior Independent Director led the Mr Rui fide Sousa, the Non-Executive Chairman Committees process for appointing the of the Company, other than when convened Chairman following the death of Mr Patrick to consider a successor as Chairman.
It Maugein, after which Mr Rui fide Sousa was additionally comprises Mr Ed Story, the recommended as the successor.
It was Chief Executive Officer, and Messrs. Olivier determined that Mr fide Sousa has the Barbaroux, John Norton and John Snyder, extensive knowledge and experience to who are independent Non-Executive Directors.
meet the requirements set out in the job The Committee meets at least once a year.
specification for the Chairman role.
During Its primary responsibilities include making his active role as a Non-Executive Director recommendations to the Board regarding the he demonstrated the time commitment and appointment and reappointment of Directors availability expected of a Chairman.
It is responsible he did not meet the independence criteria for review and recommendations regarding set out within the Code, he acts objectively overall Board structure and composition, and in the best interests of the Company and succession planning and establishing an its shareholders as a whole.
The Committee ongoing process for evaluating the Board carefully considered his shareholding and and its members.
business relationships, which are similar in nature to those of the former Chairman, The Committee held two meetings in 2006 and is satisfied these should not impede his and has conducted one meeting to date in ability to effectively fulfil the role.
Other Non-Executive Directors were the appointment, the Board retains an in attendance at a portion of these meetings appropriate balance of skills and experience, by invitation.
Certain Committee functions and the composition of the Board and its were delegated to a Sub-Committee, which Committees remains in accordance with acted on behalf of the Committee after an Code guidelines.
As Mr fide Sousa was an appropriate dialogue among Committee internal candidate, an independent external members to ensure a consensus of views.
advisor was not utilised in this instance.
Additionally, a number of other informal In light of all the relevant factors, the Board meetings and communications took place determined the appointment of Mr fide Sousa between the Chairman, various Committee to be in the best interests of the Company members and the Companys executives and its shareholders.
Mr fide Sousa was and employees.
additionally appointed to chair the Nominations Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed Board structure, size and composition, The Committee led the Board in evaluating its including a profile of the skills, knowledge own performance and that of its Committees and experience represented on the Board, and individual Directors.
The Company Secretary which was utilised to facilitate the Boards facilitated compilation of the results.
The Senior CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Independent Director facilitated relevant Results and the presentation of Interim Results discussions regarding the role of the Chairman.
whereby shareholders can directly interface The process was undertaken for the purpose of with Company executive management.
Notice adding value to the quality of the Board and its of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders at procedures through identifying and addressing least 20 working days prior to the meeting, and strengths and weaknesses.
Additionally, it was resolutions are proposed for each substantially utilised to assess Director effectiveness and the separate issue.
The result of proxy voting is time commitments of Non-Executive Directors.
announced after votes are taken on a show Actions for improvement were undertaken as of hands.
Directors are available to answer deemed appropriate.
The Committee performed shareholder questions and, in particular, the a review of its TOR and of its own performance Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and as part of this process.
Nominations Committees are in attendance to respond to any specific queries.
After giving consideration to Board structure and composition, evaluations, time commitments, The Company has assigned a senior executive length of service, individual contributions and the responsibility for investor relations and has the requirements of the Board, the Committee employed an outside agency, both to provide recommended that each of the retiring Directors assistance in the dissemination of information be proposed by the Board for reappointment at to shareholders and the general public and to the forthcoming AGM.
Additional detail regarding actively solicit feedback as to the effectiveness of the Board process in making this determination such efforts.
Additionally, the Company maintains is set out within this report on pages 33 to 34. an ongoing, active dialogue with institutional shareholders, specifically and proactively seeking reLations with sharehoLders opportunities for face-to-face meetings at least The Executive Directors are responsible for twice a year, coincident with mid term and full ensuring effective communication is maintained year results, between fund managers and with key stakeholders and partners, including Company executive management.
establishing an appropriate level of contact with major shareholders and ensuring that their views Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled are communicated to the Board.
The NonBoard meetings and public relations and Executive Directors are responsible for taking analysts reports are distributed to the full sufficient steps to understand these views, Board.
A Non-Executive Director maintains including any issues or concerns.
regular communications with SOCOs major institutional shareholders, reports feedback SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue directly to the Board and advises the Board with shareholders.
The Company maintains an when additional communication from the internet website wherein important information Chairman, Senior Independent or other can be posted and disseminated promptly to a Non-Executive Directors has been requested.
wide audience and through which shareholders The Chairman regularly interfaces with other can electronically interface with executive principal shareholders.
At a minimum, the Company whether additional communication may be provides three personal communication forums appropriate or desirable.
In particular, the annually the AGM, the presentation of Annual delegated role of the Senior Independent SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 38 3 Director includes being available to focus attention on the Groups most shareholders if they have concerns which significant areas of risk and to determine cannot be fully or appropriately addressed key control objectives.
by the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the internaL controL Combined Code, by establishing a continuous The Directors are responsible for establishing, process, which has been in place throughout maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness the year to the date of this report and which of a sound system of internal control which is in accordance with Internal Control: Revised is designed to provide reasonable assurance Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code regarding the reliability of financial information published in October 2005, for identifying, and to safeguard the shareholders investment evaluating and managing the significant risks and the assets of the Company and Group.
The Board regularly reviews Given the inherent limitations in any system the process, which is constantly evolving to of internal control, even a sound system can meet the demands of a dynamic environment.
only provide reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, that the Company will not In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the be hindered in achieving its business objectives Combined Code, the effectiveness of the or be protected against material misstatement Groups system of internal control, including or loss.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is regularly reviewed The Board has put in place formally defined by the Directors.
The review is based principally lines of responsibility and delegation of on discussions with management and on authority and has delegated to executive reviewing reports provided by management to management the implementation of material consider whether significant risks are identified, internal control systems.
Documented policies evaluated, managed and controlled, but and procedures are in place for key systems also may include independent interaction and processes and the authority of the with employees or third parties.
The Board Directors is required for key matters.
considers whether appropriate actions are taken promptly to correct any significant A comprehensive budgeting process is in place weaknesses identified, and if more extensive for all items of expenditure and an annual monitoring may be required.
The Board budget is approved by the Board.
Actual results confirms that such actions as deemed are reported against budget on a regular basis.
necessary and appropriate have been or are Revised forecasts for the year and longer term being taken to remedy any significant failings financial projections are produced regularly or weaknesses identified in its review.
Board seeks to ensure that internal control and risk management processes, including dealing The Board has the primary responsibility for with any identified areas of improvement, are identifying the major business risks facing embedded within the business.
the Company and Group and developing appropriate policies to manage those risks.
The Board has performed a specific assessment The risk management approach is used to for the purpose of this Annual Report and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Accounts, which considers all significant aspects in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act of internal control arising during the period, 1985, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and is satisfied with the process employed and the results thereof.
The Audit Committee IFRS requires that financial statements for spearheads the Board in discharging its review each financial year fairly present the financial responsibilities.
Audit Committee membership position, financial performance and cash flows comprises highly experienced professionals with of the Group.
The Directors are required to complementary areas of expertise in the oil and faithfully represent the effects of transactions, gas sector and each Committee member makes other events and conditions in accordance an important contribution to the assurance with the definitions and recognition criteria process.
Messrs. Peter Kingston, John Norton for assets, liabilities, income and expenses and Martin Roberts undertake specific review in accordance with the relevant framework processes in the areas of technical and operating, set out by the IAS Board.
The Directors are financial and audit, and commercial and legal, also required to: properly select and apply respectively, and report the results of their work to accounting policies: present information in the full Committee and to the Board.
Although the a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Company does not currently have an internal audit comparable and understandable information: function, the Directors review at least annually the and provide additional disclosures when need to establish such a function.
The Companys compliance with IFRS requirements is current staff size limits the ability to form an insufficient to enable the user to fully effective internal audit function and, accordingly, understand the impacts on the entitys the Company expects to outsource any internal financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statement oF compLiance with statements on the going concern basis unless code oF Best practice it is inappropriate to presume that the Group The Company has complied throughout the will continue in business.
After making year with the provisions set out in Section 1 enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate expectation that the Company and Group have Governance, except that upon appointment as adequate resources to continue in operational Chairman Mr Rui fide Sousa did not meet the existence for the foreseeable future.
For this independence criteria set out in Provision A.
3.1. reason, they have adopted the going concern The Board, having given this full consideration, basis in preparing the financial statements.
determined that the appointment of Mr fide Sousa was in the best interests of the Company The Directors are responsible for keeping in a process more fully described in the proper accounting records, which disclose with Nominations Committee section of this report.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group.
They are directors responsiBiLities also responsible for safeguarding the assets The Directors are responsible for preparing the of the Company and Group and hence for Annual Report and the financial statements, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and including a Directors Report and Directors detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Remuneration Report in compliance with the Directors are responsible for the maintenance requirements of the Companies Act 1985. and integrity of the Company website.
Financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS both for the Group, as required, and for auditors responsiBiLities the Company, by election.
Company law requires The auditors responsibilities are set out in the the Directors to prepare such financial statements Independent Auditors Report on pages 48 to 49.
