Corporate Governance The Board supports the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Standards Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Combined Code have been applied to the Group.
The Group was admitted onto the London Stock Exchange on 12 July 2006.
Prior to this date the Group was privately held and operated a corporate governance system that the Directors considered to be appropriate for a privately-held Group.
As part of the process of preparing for admission onto the London Stock Exchange the Group commenced a rigorous and continuous corporate governance project, using the provisions of the Combined Code.
The information below details how the principals of the Combined Code have been applied from the date of admission up to the period ended 1 October 2006, the Post-Admission Period.
The Board The Board currently comprises four Non-Executive and three Executive Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman.
As Joseph Barratta is nominated by the Blackstone Shareholders, the most significant Shareholder, he is not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Accordingly, independent Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, make up less than half of the Board.
It is the Boards opinion, however, that the current Board membership is the most appropriate to the circumstances and that no individual, or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined, approved by the Board and separate.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board in determining the Groups strategy, achieving its objectives and organising the business of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the executive management of the Groups operations and day-to-day activities.
The Board meets, formally, bi-monthly and additional meetings are arranged as necessary to consider urgent business.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors.
The table below summarises the total number of Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings during the Post-Admission Period and the attendance by each Director.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Total number of meetings 22 2 Meetings attendance William Colvin 2 Philip Scott 2 Graham Sizer 22 John Murphy 2 Ray Miles 22 2 Joseph Baratta 2 2 Baroness Morgan of Huyton 1 1 Christopher Fisher 22 2 The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategy, assessing and managing risk and monitoring the financial performance of the Group.
To assist in the effective running of the Board a comprehensive set of documents, including financial performance, operational issues, reports on developments and acquisitions and compliance matters are provided to the Board on a timely basis.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, these matters include approval of the annual strategic plan and budgets and the review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
26 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Chairman has responsibility for the induction process in respect of new Directors.
The process includes industry specific presentations from third parties and management presentations.
Directors can take independent advice on matters relating to their duties, at the expense of the Company, and have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The removal from office of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the whole Board.
The Board is committed to the principle that there should be an annual evaluation of its own performance and of individual Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the senior independent Non-Executive Director are responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
Committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the roles and terms of reference of each are summarised below.
Audit Committee During the period the Board has established a formal Audit Committee, comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors namely Christopher Fisher, Ray Miles and Baroness Morgan of Huyton.
Mr Christopher Fisher, the Committees Chairman, was formerly Vice Chairman of Corporate Finance at KPMG and a Managing Director of Lazard and brings financial expertise to the committee.
The committee meets formally at least three times a year and otherwise as required.
The external Auditors, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller are invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Part of each meeting is held in private between the Non-Executive Directors and the external Auditors.
The committee has clearly defined terms of reference: these are set out on the Groups website.
Its responsibilities include: assisting the Board in the effective discharge of its duties in respect of Corporate Governance: financial reporting: risk management and internal control.
The independence and objectivity of the external Auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee, with specific consideration of the level of nonaudit fees.
Information on non-audit fees is given in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the period the Auditors provided significant services in respect of the listing of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The committee does not consider the non-audit fees paid to the external Auditors to have affected their independence or objectivity.
The committee also receives an annual independence confirmation from the external Auditors.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and any matters of resignation or dismissal of the external Auditors as well as the approval of fees for external Auditors.
The committee also has responsibility for reviewing the Groups procedures by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and to ensure these arrangements allow for independent investigation and appropriate follow up.
Remuneration Committee During the period the Board has established a Remuneration Committee comprised of three Non-Executive Directors namely Ray Miles, Christopher Fisher and Joseph Baratta.
The Chairman of the committee is Ray Miles.
The Combined Code suggests that the Remuneration Committee should consist of at least three Directors who are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
As Joseph Baratta is not considered to be independent the Group does not comply with provision B2.1 of the Combined Code.
It is the Boards opinion that, as the nominee of the Blackstones Shareholders, Joseph Barattas views are desirable to assist the Remuneration Committee to assess the remuneration packages for the senior executives.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee continued The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 30 to 33.
Full details of Directors remuneration and shareholdings are also given in the report.
Nominations Committee During the period the Board has established a Nominations Committee comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors namely William Colvin, Ray Miles and Baroness Morgan of Huyton.
The Chairman of the committee is William Colvin.
The committee meets formally at least twice a year and otherwise as required.
The committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition and make up of the Board.
It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise, and determining succession planning for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
External executive recruitment agencies are used to assist in the identification of suitable candidates.
The committees terms of reference are set out on the Groups website.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
As with, any system of internal control it can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: Risk Management The Board is responsible for risk assessment and management within the Group.
During the period the Board has established the Group Risk Management Committee GRMC and has delegated the responsibility to this committee.
Included within the GRMCs responsibilities are setting Group policy and strategy for risk management, identifying, assessing and managing risks facing the Group and communicating, educating and training employees on the risks facing the Group.
The GRMC has representatives from finance, operations, legal, human resources, estates, health and safety and compliance.
It meets on a bi-monthly basis and reports into the Board, via the Audit Committee.
The Board has put in place a documented organisational structure with clearly defined and understood roles and responsibilities.
There are also established and documented policies and procedures at the home level, and the Group is in the process of implementing documented policies and procedures for the head office finance function.
Management Information Systems The Group has a comprehensive management information system for regular and timely reporting into the Board.
The monthly financial reporting system includes period and period to date results compared to budget, details of key performance indicators against budget, working capital movements and detailed cash flow information.
The monthly management reporting system includes information on internal and external, regulatory and compliance audits, health and safety and other operational matters.
Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance, and is satisfied that the Group complies with that guidance.
Investor Relations The Board supports the view that effective communications with its Shareholders, stakeholders and the wider market is a critical element of corporate governance.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring effective communication with the Groups stakeholders and to ensure the Board develops an understanding of the views of key stakeholders.
The Groups Annual and Interim Reports will be the primary method by which information is communicated to our stakeholders.
In addition there is also regular dialogue with individual institutional Shareholders and general meetings will be held after the announcement of interim and preliminary results.
It is the intention of the Senior Independent Director to be present at these meetings.
28 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Groups Annual General Meeting shall be used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and to give all ordinary Shareholders the opportunity to ask questions of the Directors.
In an effort to communicate more readily with an audience of stakeholders, the Groups website has been developed so as to incorporate an investor relations page.
A Group profile, statutory financial statements, all announcements and regular corporate news are included.
Internal Audit Throughout the period, the Regional Administrator and Operational Manager groups have performed financial and operational compliance work at the home level.
To help ensure compliance, the Group has a quality assurance department that assists in training both groups on internal compliance techniques and also ensures a uniform approach is adopted across the Group.
The Board is satisfied that the work performed by the external Auditors in preparation for Admission together with the current internal compliance structure of the Group was sufficient for the period under review.
However, the Board will be reviewing the internal audit requirements of the Group in the year ahead.
Going Concern After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the financial statements continue to be prepared on the going-concern basis.
Compliance Statement The Board confirms that for the period since the Companys shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange being 12 July 2006 to 1 October 2006, it has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except that: i During this period, the Remuneration Committee membership was not made up entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors: and ii During this period, independent Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, did not make up half of the Board.
By order of the Board William McLeish Company Secretary Southgate House Archer Street Darlington County Durham DL3 6AH Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29
