Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 23 Directors statement on corporate governance This statement describes how the principles and provisions of It is the policy of the Board to hold at least six Board meetings a year, corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate including a meeting to review and approve long term strategy.
There Governance the Code have been applied within the Group.
The activity at the end of the year meant that there were several meetings scheduled at short notice.
Full The Board attendance of the Board is expected at meetings and in 2006 all The Board comprises a Chairman who is not independent, four further directors attended except for the following absences: Marcus Beresford non-executive directors, and two executive directors, details of whom 1, Frederick DAlessio 4, Andrew Given 2, Gran Ennerfelt 8 and are given on page 16.
The Board operates within a framework of Kurt Hellstrm 5.
The reasons for the absences were due to either controls, including a formal schedule of matters specically reserved the fact that a number of meetings were scheduled at short notice, for its decision.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are unavoidable changes in the Board meeting calendar at short notice, separate with a clear division of responsibility between them which is the director being ill or the director having to be elsewhere for other set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Where the director was absent, full documentation for the meeting was issued and briengs were provided as appropriate.
The Board helps to develop and set the strategic aims and objectives for the Company and regularly reviews its performance in achieving Certain of the matters specically reserved for the Boards decision those aims and objectives.
The Board regularly reviews management have been delegated to three standing Committees with clearly dened performance and sets values and standards to ensure that its terms of reference which, together with the composition of each obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
Each Committee is provided with sufficient resources so that it may undertake its duties.
The terms of Following the appointment of Edward Bramson, Ian Brindle, Gerard reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Eastman and Alex Walker to the Board, by virtue of the shareholders are available upon request to the Company Secretary and are also vote on 22 December 2006, the Board was no longer in compliance available on the Companys website.
The Board intends to appoint two further independent non-executive directors during 2007 to bring the Board appointments composition of the Board back into compliance with the Code.
Edward The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors seek Bramson, the Chairman, has a connected material notiable interest election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following in the share capital of the Company and accordingly does not meet the their appointment.
They also require that all directors seek re-election independence criteria in paragraph A.
at least every three years.
Notwithstanding the requirements of the The independence of each director is reviewed at least annually.
Companys Articles of Association, Edward Bramson and Gerard As Edward Bramson, Gerard Eastman and Gran Ennerfelt have a Eastman have agreed to offer themselves for re-election at each connected material notiable interest in the share capital of the Annual General Meeting whilst they serve on the Board.
Company see the Report of the directors on pages 19 to 21, the Board has concluded that they are not to be considered as Board Committees independent of the management of the Company.
Audit Committee Chairman, Ian Brindle Alex Walker currently serves as the senior independent director.
The Throughout 2006 until 22 December, the Audit Committee comprised senior independent director is available to meet shareholders upon three independent non-executive directors.
It currently comprises request if they have concerns which contact through the normal three non-executive directors.
Its membership is not in accordance channels of the Chairman or executive directors has failed to resolve, with paragraph C. 3.1 of the Code.
However, the Board intends to or for which such contact is inappropriate.
bring the Audit Committee back into compliance following the appointment to the Board of two further independent non-executive directors during 2007.
24 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The Code requires that the Audit Committee includes a member who Remuneration Committee has recent, significant and relevant financial experience and the Board Chairman, Alex Walker believes that Ian Brindle provides such experience.
During 2006, the Throughout 2006 until 22 December, the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee held five meetings at which there was full attendance comprised five independent non-executive directors.
It currently by Committee members with the exception of Marcus Beresford and comprises three non-executive directors.
Its membership is not in James Wyness who were both absent for one meeting.
At all meetings accordance with paragraph B.
However, the Board the external auditors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief intends to bring the Remuneration Committee back into compliance Financial officer, the Head of Internal Control and the Head of Financial once the two further independent non-executive directors have been Reporting are in attendance.
appointed to the Board during 2007.
During 2006, the Remuneration Committee held four meetings at which there was full attendance by The Audit Committee reviews all published financial statements and Committee members with the exception of Frederick DAlessio who post audit findings before their presentation to the Board, focusing in was absent for one meeting.
particular on accounting policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates.
It also monitors the Groups internal control and risk Details about the Remuneration Committee are included in the Report management regime including the effectiveness of the internal audit on directors remuneration on pages 26 to 32. function and financial reporting.
Any significant findings or identied weaknesses are closely examined so that appropriate action can be Relations with shareholders taken, monitored and reported to the Board.
The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and communication with shareholders.
Communication is facilitated by full The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of year and interim reports.
The Board has taken steps to ensure that external auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of the members of the Board, including the non-executive directors develop both audit and non-audit work.
The Board has adopted a policy which an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
prohibits certain types of non-audit work from being performed by the Companys auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and Internal control independence would be at risk.
Non-audit work is put to tender where The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal considered appropriate.
The Board assisted by the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of this system and this review did not reveal any significant Nomination Committee findings or weaknesses.
The Board confirms that this process was in Chairman, Edward Bramson place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, all the nonof these financial statements.
The primary aim is to operate a system executive directors and the Chief Executive and meets at least once which is appropriate to the business and which can, over time, increase a year.
During 2006, the Nomination Committee held one meeting at shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Groups assets.
The system which there was full attendance by Committee members.
The is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not and structure of the Board and for identifying and recommending absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
candidates for executive and non-executive positions, based on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for the Process appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by the Nomination Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control and risk Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
The Board intends monitoring rests with senior management at operating group and to appoint two further independent non-executive directors during 2007 business unit level.
in order to bring the composition of the Board back into compliance with paragraph A.
The Board has agreed that its Spirent operates a corporate internal control and risk management members will be selected by the independent non-executive directors, function which reports into the Head of Internal Control.
The function notwithstanding the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.
operates on a global basis and plays a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment of the effectiveness of the internal Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 25 control systems throughout the Group to operating management, the NYSE rules provide that nomination committees should consist Audit Committee and the Board.
The work programme of the functions is entirely of independent directors.
Spirents Nomination Committee focused on the areas perceived to be of greatest risk to the Group and includes Edward Bramson, Gerard Eastman, Gran Ennerfelt and is agreed annually in advance by the Audit Committee.
During 2006 the Anders Gustafsson, none of whom are independent: work programme focused mainly on Sarbanes-Oxley compliance relating NYSE rules provide that nomination corporate governance to the Companys secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange and committees are responsible for developing and recommending to associated registration with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the The Groups system of internal control and risk management Company.
Spirent, however, reserves these responsibilities for the comprises an integrated risk management strategy consisting of whole Board in accordance with the Code : and regular self-assessment encompassing all operating units and NYSE rules require audit committees to be directly responsible for preparation of a remedial action plan, as appropriate.
This system is the appointment and retention of the Companys external auditor.
coordinated by Spirents corporate internal control and risk management Spirents Audit Committee, however, in accordance with the Code, is functions.
significant risks are also regularly reviewed by the Audit responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Committee and by the Board.
appointment and retention of the auditor.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to In accordance with NYSE requirements, the above summary of the overall internal control environment: significant variances in corporate governance practices can be found an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, dened on the Companys website at www.
lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: Pensions governance an Ethics Policy which has been approved by the Board, which sets The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the UK standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the Group operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing procedures and are administered by Trustees which include employees and whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: independent bodies.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting assets to the Group.
Following completion of the disposal of the system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed: and HellermannTyton Division on 15 February 2006, the Company made a special contribution of 47.0 million into the UK final salary pension a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process scheme, which substantially funds the scheme.
and post acquisition integration programme.
Reporting US corporate governance compliance The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of preparing As the Company has a secondary listing on the New York Stock the financial statements is set out on page 22.
A report by the Exchange NYSE, it is subject to certain US legislation.
Following the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, which includes details of their introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the US, NYSE responsibilities in respect of the Groups compliance with the Code, introduced new corporate governance standards.
Companies which is set out on page 33. do not have their primary listing on NYSE such as Spirent are generally permitted to follow home country practice ie the UK Listing, Disclosure and Prospectus Rules and the Code in lieu of NYSEs standards.
Generally, NYSEs corporate governance standards do not vary signicantly from those adopted in the UK, however, NYSE rules require any such significant variances to be disclosed.
Following a review of NYSE corporate governance standards, the following are considered significant variances to home country practice: 26 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Report on directors remuneration benets.
Both short term incentive bonuses and long term share- 1.
Introduction and compliance based incentives are performance related.
In normal circumstances, This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the it was the Committees policy that at least 50 per cent of an executive Committee and approved by the Board in compliance with statutory directors target total annual remuneration package be based on requirements and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance performance related elements.
At the EGM held on 22 December 2006, shareholders voted to remove 2.
Role and remit of the Remuneration Committee certain directors of the Company and appoint four new directors.
The composition of the Committee during the year was made up Accordingly, the composition of the Board and the Committee changed wholly of non-executive directors.
The Committee members from on that date and a review of remuneration policy is currently taking 1 January to 22 December 2006 were Marcus Beresford Chairman place.
Revised Terms of Reference for the Committee which can be to 3 May, Frederick DAlessio Chairman from 3 May, Andrew Given, found on the Companys website were approved in February 2007.
Kurt Hellstrm, John Weston, and James Wyness retired 3 May.
On 22 December 2006 the Board changed the composition of the 4.
Executive directors remuneration Committee to Alex Walker Chairman, Ian Brindle and Gerard Eastman.
a Base salary and benets Details of the number of Committee meetings and attendance by The level of base salary was reviewed on 1 January 2006 by reference members during the year are set out in the Directors statement on to both the performance and responsibilities of the individual and corporate governance.
prevailing market rates for executives of similar status in comparable companies.
Further details can be found in paragraph 6 a.
The Committee made recommendations to the Board on the policy, Pension and other benets were also reviewed on 1 January 2006 framework and cost of executive remuneration.
The Committee also having regard to competitor practice.
Benets include a car allowance, approved the remuneration of each executive director and certain other healthcare and life insurance coverage.
Pension details are given in senior executives.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, the Committee paragraphs 4 d, 6 a and 6 b. was responsible for monitoring and managing shareholder dilution arising from share incentive plans.
On 1 August 2006 Anders Gustafsson entered into two service agreements which replaced the previous single service agreement 3.
Remuneration policy entered into on 1 August 2004.
The two new agreements provide for The Companys remuneration policy, which did not change during 2006, him to devote 80 per cent and 20 per cent of his working time to his was to provide executive pay which was competitive when compared with duties in the USA and UK respectively and base salary is split in the organisations of similar size, complexity and type and was structured so same proportion and paid in the local currency of each jurisdiction.
that remuneration was linked to long term growth and profitability targets.
In order to assist the Committee in carrying out its duties during 2006, b Annual and other incentive bonus schemes the Committee consulted on a regular basis with its independent The Committee reviewed annual incentive bonus scheme targets and external remuneration advisers.
During the year the Committee performance conditions to incentivise the executive to meet the short retained Watson Wyatt Ltd who are also consultant actuaries to the term strategic objectives of the Company.
Company on pension matters as advisers.
Other advisers during the In respect of 2006, Anders Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson year were as follows: participated in an annual cash bonus scheme which, consistent with UK market practice and levels, was structured around a formula Kepler Associates: and providing for an on-target performance bonus of 50 per cent of base Linklaters who are one of the Companys legal advisers.
salary with a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary for exceptional performance.
Performance was measured against targets in the The Committee also consulted with the Companys Senior Vice President Companys adjusted earnings per share EPS and cash ow, of Human Resources, Senior Director Global Compensation and the accounting for 80 per cent and 20 per cent of any bonus, respectively.
Company Secretary regarding remuneration and related corporate As the threshold targets for 2006 were not achieved, neither executive governance issues.
In addition, with respect to the remuneration of senior director earned a bonus under the annual scheme.
executives for whom the Companys remuneration policy also applied, the Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive.
c Medium and long term incentive plans There are four elements to the remuneration packages for executive The Committee approved the grant of all awards under the Employee directors: competitive basic salary annually reviewed : short term Incentive Plan EIP in which executive directors participate see incentive bonus: long term share incentive awards and pension below.
All grants are subject to the prior satisfactory performance of Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 27 the individual and grant amounts vary in accordance with the individuals The executive directors receive a mix of SARs options and performance potential to add value to the business over the medium to long term.
shares, utilising a ratio of two SARs options being equivalent to one performance share.
At least 25 per cent of each grant is delivered in The executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys SARs options and at least 25 per cent in performance shares, with all employee share plans, further details of which are provided in note the balance of the grant delivered through a mix of SARs options and 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent performance shares as determined by the Committee.
In normal Company financial statements.
circumstances, the maximum combined award under the EIP will be limited to 250 per cent of salary face value in SARs options.
As 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme explained above, grants normally consist partly of SARs options and The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme expired during 2005 and partly of performance shares, with the proviso that the performance no grants have been made to directors under this scheme since 2005. share element may not exceed a face value of 100 per cent of salary Further details in respect of this scheme are provided in note 32 to ie using the ratio of two SARs options being equivalent to one the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent performance share.
Shareholder dilution 2005 Employee Incentive Plan The Committee is mindful of the need to manage shareholder dilution The EIP was approved by shareholders in May 2005 and both executive in a responsible manner.
As explained in the Circular to shareholders directors participated in this plan during 2006.
Under the EIP, the dated April 2005 the 2005 Circular, the current shareholder Company is able to grant options and share settled stock appreciation approved mandate includes an aggregated annual allowance of up to rights SARs, the exercise of which will be subject to challenging EPS 3.1 per cent of the issued share capital under the EIP and the Spirent criteria.
Performance shares may also be granted, the vesting of which Stock Incentive Plan SSIP.
As part of the Committees sustainable will be subject to challenging total shareholder return TSR criteria.
This dilution strategy, SARs are used in lieu of options in the operation of combination reects UK market trends in the use of long term incentives the EIP and SSIP.
This SARs approach helps the Company manage and creates a more balanced incentive package for executive directors.
its actual dilution more efficiently as only the appreciation value and not In normal circumstances, SARs options under the EIP will vest three the entire share value needs to be funded when an award is exercised.
years following grant provided the Companys EPS growth targets after Further information on the SARs approach, the operation of other excluding ination have been met over a three year performance period.
share plans and shareholder dilution is provided in note 32 to the The growth targets in respect of awards made to executive directors consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company during 2005 and 2006 require that the Companys EPS increases financial statements.
within a range of 6 per cent per annum for 25 per cent vesting and 15 per cent per annum for 100 per cent vesting over the performance Shareholder consultation period, with a sliding scale between these points.
In the 2005 Circular, the Company stated that the performance In normal circumstances, performance shares under the EIP will vest conditions and award criteria in respect of the EIP would operate for three years following grant provided the Companys TSR targets have two annual award cycles ie 2005 and 2006 and that the Company would been met over a three year performance period.
TSR is the growth in the revert to shareholders in 2007 if it wished to propose any material value of a share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions changes.
The Company also stated in the 2005 Circular that the SSIP are reinvested.
The performance condition requires that Spirents TSR would operate for three annual award cycles ie 2004, 2005 and 2006 rating be between the median of a comparator group for 30 per cent and the Company would revert to shareholders in 2007. vesting and in the upper quartile of a comparator group for 100 per As mentioned above, the Remuneration Committee is currently cent vesting over the performance period, with a sliding scale between reviewing remuneration policy within the Group and as such has agreed these points.
The comparator group consists of the 30 largest that no material changes to the Companys share plans will be companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE TechMARK 100 Index, proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and shareholders will excluding those TechMARK companies who were also constituents of be consulted when remuneration policy had been formulated.
However, the FTSE 100 at the commencement of the performance period.
The in this transitional stage, shareholder authority is being sought to Committee considers the selected comparator group provides a renew the SSIP in the same form as approved by shareholders in June suitable benchmark for Spirents TSR rating.
2004 and this authority to operate the SSIP will expire at the 2008 All EIP awards will be tested once on or shortly following the third Annual General Meeting see the Notice of 2007 Annual General anniversary of grant.
Any part of an award which does not vest will Meeting for further details.
lapse and there will be no opportunity for retesting.
28 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Report on directors remuneration continued All contracts contain provisions for the Company to make payment in d Directors pensions lieu of notice and for removal of the director for poor performance or During the year, Eric Hutchinson transferred the value of his accrued misconduct without compensation.
The Company will seek to apply benets from the Spirent Communications plc Staff Pension and Life practical mitigation measures to any payment of compensation on Assurance Plan the Staff Plan to a personal pension arrangement.
termination, taking into account all relevant circumstances.
All service The transfer payment of 3,984,844 was made pursuant to an contracts contain appropriate provisions to protect the legitimate enhanced transfer value offer which was made to all active and interests of the Company with respect to preventing any terminated deferred members of the Staff Plan.
At 31 December 2005 the transfer director from working in a business which competes against the value of this plan was 2,635,000.
Service contracts do not contain any compensation rights Prior to the transfer, Eric Hutchinson participated in the non-contributory which could be increased on a change of control in the Company.
funded senior executive level of the Staff Plan, a dened benefit arrangement which would have provided him at normal retirement age f External appointments of 60, and dependent on length of service, with a pension of up to twoSpirent recognises the mutual benefit for executive directors to serve thirds of salary, subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits and other as non-executive directors of companies in other industries outside the statutory conditions.
It also provided for dependants pensions and a Group.
Such appointments are subject to prior Board approval and cash lump sum on death.
any related fee entitlements are for the account of the executive director concerned.
During 2006, Eric Hutchinson served on the Board Since 1 August 2006, when he ceased membership of the Staff Plan, of Trifast plc as a non-executive director and received fees of 31,250 Eric Hutchinson has received an annual cash allowance in lieu of arising from this appointment.
pension of 20 per cent of base salary, totalling 24,571 in 2006.
Prior to his relocation to the US, Anders Gustafssons contract provided 5.
Non-executive directors remuneration him with a pension contribution of 30 per cent of basic salary.
Subject The remuneration of John Weston Chairman to 22 December 2006 was to statutory limits, and in accordance with his direction, the Company determined by the Committee and the remuneration of the other nonmade approved contributions into the executive section of the Spirent executive directors was determined by the Board.
The remuneration of Retirement Cash and Life Assurance Plan the Cash Plan.
The all non-executive directors in ofce at 1 January 2006 was reviewed Executive Section of the Cash Plan is non-contributory and provides following a recommendation by the Chief Executive and after consultation benets on a dened contribution basis.
Contributions to the Cash with independent external advisers concerning competitive market Plan are held in an individual account and invested in accordance with practice.
The Companys Remuneration Policy with regards to nonmember elections.
The Company established an unfunded unapproved executive directors is to pay fees which are in line with market practice.
retirement benefit UURB on a dened contribution basis to which the balance of contributions in excess of the statutory limits were John Westons remuneration for 2006 remained unchanged as did credited together with interest on the UURB balance.
that of all non-executive directors in ofce at 1 January 2006.
Edward Bramson, who was appointed Chairman on 22 December 2006, and Following his relocation to the US, the accrued UURB balance of Gerard Eastman, who was appointed as a non-executive director on the 263,955 was cashed out, 237,232 being paid in cash after deduction same date both partners of Sherborne Investors GP, LLC Sherborne, of tax to Mr Gustafsson and 26,723 being paid into the Cash Plan.
the Companys largest shareholder, waived their rights to any fees Since 1 August 2006, Mr Gustafsson has received an annual cash while they manage an operational turnaround of the Group.
allowance in lieu of pension of 30 per cent of total base salary, which Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in bonus or share is paid in the US and which for 2006 totalled $114,263 60,950. incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pensions Further details of pension contributions and payments are given in or other benets.
No element of their fees is performance related.
paragraphs 6 a and 6 b. Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are normally appointed, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, for an initial e Service agreements three year term.
Any subsequent extension to the term by the Board is The Committees policy is to offer service contracts which provide for no not automatic and is subject to prior recommendation of the Nomination more than 12 months notice from the Company in normal circumstances.
Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have stated that, as partners of Sherborne, they will seek re-election by shareholders Anders Gustafsson entered into two service agreements on 1 August 2006 on an annual basis commencing at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
see 4 a for further details which currently have an unexpired term of 160 months and are terminable by the Company on 12 months notice and by Further information on non-executive directors fees is provided in him on six months notice.
Eric Hutchinson entered into a service contract paragraph 6 a below.
on 13 December 1999 which currently has an unexpired term of 99 months and is terminable at any time by either party on 12 months notice.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 29 1 6.
2 Eric Hutchinson earned these fees in respect of his services to the Board and its Committees.
The non-executive directors receive a basic annual fee of 33,000 in respect of their services except Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman who have waived their fees.
John Weston received an annual fee of 150,000 which covered both his basic annual fee and his additional duties as Chairman.
Non-executive directors who chair a Board Committee receive an additional 7,000 per annum.
The Senior Independent Director receives an additional 7,000 per annum except where he also chairs a Board Committee.
Frederick DAlessio received an additional 5,000 per annum in recognition of the extensive international travelling commitment required to perform his duties.
3 Taxable benets include a car allowance, healthcare, personal tax advice, premiums for life assurance and relocation costs incurred to date of 142,000 in respect of Anders Gustafsson relocating from the UK to the US, which have been met in accordance with the Companys normal policy.
4 Further details of the annual bonus scheme are provided in paragraph 4 b above.
5 Information regarding cash in lieu of pension is provided in 4 d above.
6 The gures relate to the period of each directors Board membership.
Richard Moley and James Wyness ceased to be directors of the Company in May 2005 and May 2006 respectively.
At a requisitioned Extraordinary General Meeting held on 22 December 2006, Edward Bramson, Ian Brindle, Gerard Eastman and Alex Walker were all appointed as directors of the Company and Marcus Beresford, Frederick DAlessio, Andrew Given, Kurt Hellstrm and John Weston all ceased to be directors of the Company.
7 Remuneration gures above exclude fees received as a result of external appointments see paragraph 4 f for further details.
b Directors remuneration and payments to former directors summary 1 1 2006 2005 000 000 Total emoluments of all directors 1,691.8 1,442.3 2 Gains made on exercise of share options 487.1 3 Company contribution to the Cash Plan in respect of pensions 26.7 22.9 4 Ex gratia pension to former director 3.8 5.0 2,209.4 1,470.2 Notes 1 Figures relate to the period of each directors Board membership.
2 This relates to the exercise and sale of 1,128,000 share options by Eric Hutchinson on 18 October 2006 see 7 b below for further details.
3 These payments relate to approved contributions made by the Company in respect of Anders Gustafssons participation in the Cash Plan see 4 d for further details.
4 This relates to an annual ex gratia pension to Geoff Bastians, who retired from the Board in 1984 and died during 2006.
30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Report on directors remuneration continued 1 7.
Directors interests a Summary of interests in Ordinary share capital The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate families and any connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below.
The Companys statutory register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options over shares and is available for inspection at the registered ofce during normal business hours on any business day.
2 2 At 31 December 2006 At 1 January 2006 Ordinary Ordinary Options and Ordinary Ordinary Options and shares shares rights to acquire shares shares rights to acquire 3 4 3 4 beneficial non-beneficial Ordinary shares beneficial non-beneficial Ordinary shares 5 Executive directors 6 6 A Gustafsson 100,000 180,180 4,925,750 50,000 180,180 3,232,000 E Hutchinson 871,731 3,494,742 753,707 4,091,733 Non-executive directors M Beresford 65,225 65,225 7 E Bramson 130,270,000 130,270,000 I Brindle 4,525 4,525 F DAlessio 28,000 28,000 7 G Eastman 130,250,000 130,250,000 8 G Ennerfelt 120,000,000 120,000,000 A Given K Hellstrm A Walker J Weston 1,662,000 1,662,000 J Wyness 346,037 346,037 Notes 1 Information relating to directors interests in 7 a and 7 b has been audited by the Companys auditors.
2 The gures relate to the period of each directors Board membership.
Messrs Bramson, Brindle, Eastman and Walker were appointed to the Board in December 2006.
Messrs Beresford, DAlessio, Given, Hellstrm and Weston all ceased to be directors in December 2006.
3 Directors beneficial holdings do not form part of the remuneration provided by the Company.
4 Options and other rights to acquire shares in respect of the executive directors include share options, stock appreciation rights and performance shares.
5 The Companys executive directors, together with other employees of the Group, are potential beneciaries of certain Ordinary shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
UK executive directors, together with other employees of the Group, are also potential beneciaries of the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
As potential beneciaries of the ESOT and the SST, the respective directors are deemed by the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in some of the Ordinary shares held by those Trusts.
At 31 December 2006, the deemed beneficial interests in the ESOT and the SST were 180,180 Ordinary shares and 1,857,576 Ordinary shares, respectively 31 December 2005 180,180 and 3,231,940, respectively.
Further details on the Companys share plans are provided in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
6 The non-beneficial interests of Anders Gustafsson arise from a conditional award over shares to a value of 100,000.
The award was made in 2004 in recognition of his appointment to the Board and the shares are held in the ESOT.
In normal circumstances, the shares will be released beneficially to him on the third anniversary of his appointment, subject to him still being in the Companys employment at that time.
7 Messrs Bramson and Eastman have a connected notiable interest in the 130,250,000 Ordinary shares held by Sherborne Investors GP, LLC, which for statutory purposes, is also deemed to be an interest of the director.
Mr Bramson is also the beneficial owner of 20,000 Ordinary shares.
8 Gran Ennerfelt has a connected notiable interest in the 120,000,000 Ordinary shares held by Lexa BV, which for statutory purposes, is also deemed to be an interest of the director.
An explanation of each plan and its operation is given in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
2 This relates to an award of performance shares under the EIP.
There is no exercise price payable for a performance share upon vesting.
Further details on performance shares are provided in section 4 c above.
3 These awards lapsed unexercised during the year.
4 Eric Hutchinson exercised 1,128,000 share options on 18 October 2006 and disposed of all the shares on the same day.
The market value of an Ordinary share at the point of disposal was 59.179 pence and the gain before transaction costs, taxes, employers and employees national insurance was 487,061.
The middle market price of an Ordinary share on 3 January 2006 being the first day the London Stock Exchange was open for trading in 2006 and 31 December 2006 was 50.0 pence and 56.75 pence, respectively, and during that period ranged between a high of 62.75 pence and a low of 33.0 pence.
Save as disclosed, there have been no changes between the year end and 1 March 2007 the date on which the financial statements have been signed in the directors beneficial or non-beneficial interests in the Ordinary share or loan capital of the Company or any subsidiary.
32 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Report on directors remuneration continued 8.
Total Shareholder Return performance The graph below shows Total Shareholder Return TSR performance ie growth in the value of a share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions are reinvested for the last five financial years of Spirent Communications plc as shown against the FTSE 350 Index FTSE 350 and the FTSE Information Technology Index FTSE IT.
The Committee believes that both the FTSE 350 and the FTSE IT provide broad equity market indices against which the performance of Spirent can be fairly compared, and that the FTSE IT provides a particularly representative collection of comparator companies.
Shareholder advisory resolution in respect of the report on directors remuneration In accordance with statutory requirements, an ordinary resolution to approve this Report on directors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board Alex Walker Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2007 Rebased Index
