Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance 29 The Senior Independent Director is The Board is committed to the highest Executive Directors in addition to the the Deputy Chairman, David Payne.
standards of corporate governance and Chairman, ensuring an appropriate balance He is chairman of the Remuneration believes that strong governance improves of independence and experience.
Committee and a member of the Audit the performance of the Group and enhances and Nomination Committees.
It has due regard to Gregor Alexander, David Payne and Susan the continuing developments in this field, Rice come up for re-election at the The Chairman and non-Executive Directors including policy guidelines which are forthcoming AGM.
Following the performance met during the year without the executive regularly issued and updated by organisations evaluation reported on below, it is confirmed management being present.
The nonsuch as the ABI, NAPF and PIRC.
This report that the performance of all three Directors Executive Directors would consider meeting sets out the key governance principles and coming up for re-election continues to without the Chairman if there were concerns practices of Scottish and Southern Energy.
be effective and they have demonstrated which the Chairman had failed to resolve The Remuneration Report on pages 36 commitment to their respective roles.
or if there were any issues concerning his to 41 details the remuneration policies In addition, David Payne and Susan Rice performance.
The Directors are fully briefed and practices.
as non-Executive Directors, have the in advance of all Board meetings on all appropriate experience, knowledge, and matters to be discussed, including regular Combined Code Compliance independence to scrutinise effectively the business and financial reports, and they The Board considers that this report on how performance of management.
Biographical also receive copies of analysts and brokers the company complies with the UK Financial details for all the Directors are shown on reports on the company.
Reporting Councils Combined Code on pages 34 and 35.
Corporate Governance the Combined Code The non-Executive Directors appointment provides the information necessary to enable Division of Responsibilities letters are available on the companys shareholders to evaluate how the principles The roles of the Chairman and the Chief website scottish-southern.
of the Combined Code have been applied.
Executive are separate and clearly defined Throughout the year, the company has and have been approved by the Board.
The In addition to the AGM, the Board had complied with the provisions of the Combined Chairman is responsible for the operation, nine scheduled meetings during the year Code except for the following matter: leadership and governance of the Board and meets more frequently as required.
and the Chief Executive for the management The attendance of Directors at Board As explained last year, Henry Casley retired of Group business and the implementation meetings and meetings of its Committees as a non-Executive Director on 17 May 2005. of strategy and policy once agreed by the during the year are set out in the table below.
He was considered not to be independent in Board.
In discharging his responsibility, Ren Mdori was unable to attend on two terms of the Combined Code.
Since 17 May the Chief Executive is advised and assisted occasions due to a change to his external 2005, the company has complied with all by a number of committees including executive commitments.
To facilitate a fuller the provisions set out in Section 1 of the the Executive Committee comprising understanding of the business and its Combined Code.
the senior management of the Groups people, Board meetings have been held main businesses.
throughout the year at various operational Taking account of the above explanation, the sites, and senior managers have had Board therefore considers that the company Director Independence opportunities to present to the Board has satisfied its obligations under the All of the non-Executive Directors are as well as to meet the Board on more Combined Code.
considered to be independent according informal occasions.
to the principles of the Combined Code.
ORGANISATION AND STRUCTURE The non-Executive Directors bring a wide Board Membership range of skills and experience to the Group, The non-Executive Chairman, Sir Robert including independent judgement on issues Smith, chairs the Board.
The Board consists of strategy, performance, financial controls of four non-Executive Directors and four and systems of risk management.
Directors Attendance Health, Safety and Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Risk Environmental Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 7 meetings 12 meetings 12 meetings 4 meetings Gregor Alexander 9 12 12 Colin Hood 9 124 Ian Marchant 91 12 12 4 Ren Mdori 736 David Payne 9317 Alistair Phillips-Davies 9 12 12 Susan Rice 831 Kevin Smith 9174 Sir Robert Smith 91 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance 30 Board Procedures management on the full range of the Groups BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has a schedule of matters activities, and visits to key offices and specifically reserved to it for decision, operational sites.
There is an agreed The Board has six committees.
The terms which includes strategic items, Board procedure for Directors to be able to take of reference of each Committee were and Committee appointments and related independent professional advice in the reviewed as part of the evaluation process.
governance matters, approval of the annual furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at The Company Secretary acts as Secretary budget, Company Reports and Financial the Groups expense and all Directors have of each of the Remuneration and Nomination Statements, significant contracts and access to the advice and services of the Committees and the Deputy Secretary capital expenditure and certain key policies.
acts as Secretary of the Audit Committee.
The Board regularly reviews this schedule.
The terms of reference for all Committees This year, an enhanced programme of are available on the Companys website The Board receives detailed financial and performance coaching was developed for www.
operational information to allow it to monitor members of the Executive Committee, and effectively the performance of the key areas this will be rolled out to senior managers AUDIT COMMITTEE of the business.
It also receives regular of the Group.
The purpose is to develop the updates on the progress and performance of Executive Directors and senior management Role of the Committee investments and other major decisions made and maximise individual and group The principal responsibilities of the Audit by it, together with regular business reports performance to ensure that the business Committee are: and presentations from senior management.
k ensuring the financial reports Any Director appointed by the Board during Performance Evaluation represent an accurate, clear the year is subject to election at the first During the year, the Chairman conducted a and balanced assessment of the AGM following their appointment to the comprehensive evaluation of the performance companys position: Board.
Thereafter, in accordance with the of the Board, its six Committees and the k monitoring the effectiveness of internal Combined Code and the Articles of individual Directors.
The process used in control and risk management in areas Association they are subject to re-election previous years was developed this year to take such as Energy Trading and Treasury: every three years.
forward the results of previous evaluations.
Each Director completed a questionnaire k monitoring and reviewing the Groups All of the non-Executive Directors have been which covered such areas as Board internal audit function: and appointed for fixed terms of three years.
development, strategy, management of risk k ensuring the independence of the and corporate responsibility.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS and, where appropriate, the Chairmen of the Committees then discussed these matters The Chairman of the Committee reports to Induction and Professional Development with each Director and the Company the Board following each Committee meeting Directors receive a comprehensive induction Secretary during a series of individual on the main areas and subjects the course on joining the Board, tailored to their meetings.
The outcome of this process Committee has reviewed such as risk was reported to the Board at its meeting individual requirements, which includes management, internal control, internal audit on 26 January 2006.
Following the review, meetings with senior management, visits reports and any issues arising from its a number of improvements were made to the to key sites, and a meeting with the company review of Group Financial Statements.
It also covers a review the outcome was that generally the Board of all risks facing the Group including key Membership and Experience set clear objectives, it monitored operational issues such as safety and All members of the Committee are performance well and was focused on the environmental performance.
This review will continue to membership of the Committee is as follows: be carried out on an annual basis.
The Board During the year, the Board and its key was satisfied that the review of its committees received briefings on new k Ren Mdori Committee Chairman : performance was a worthwhile exercise developments affecting the Groups activities, and the Directors had participated in an such as the Government Energy Policy k David Payne, the Companys Senior open and frank basis.
Review, corporate governance and regulatory Independent Director and Deputy developments, and financial reporting Chairman : and Led by the Senior Independent Director, standards.
Directors were also able to k Susan Rice.
David Payne, the non-Executive Directors update their knowledge of the business evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
through regular presentations by senior Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 31 The Board considers that the membership of External Auditors Internal Audit the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient The Committee has an established policy The Committee reviews the plans and work recent and relevant financial experience to which restricts the engagement of the of internal audit.
The Group Audit Manager discharge its functions.
Ren Mdori has auditors for non-audit services.
The policy reports to the Committee on the audit particular relevant financial experience in his details non-audit work from which the programme, progress against the executive career.
Currently he is the Finance auditors are excluded, and other non-audit programme and any follow-up actions.
Director of Anglo American plc.
work which may be awarded to them in a Further details relating to internal audit competitive tender process where non-audit can be found below in the section headed Evaluation of the Committee fees exceed a threshold of 30,000 for Internal Control and Risk Management.
As reported above, an evaluation of the general advice and 75,000 for tax related performance of this Committee was carried advice.
Where such non-audit work was REMUNERATION COMMITTEE out during the year.
This evaluation also awarded, the Committee was satisfied that it included the principal attendees of the was best handled by the auditors because of The principal responsibilities of the Committee, namely the Finance Director, their knowledge of the Group.
The non-audit Remuneration Committee are: the Group Audit Manager and the work awarded during the year included: external auditors.
k formulation of remuneration policy and k International Financial Reporting approval of all aspects of the Executive Activities of the Committee in 2005 06 Standards advice: Directors remuneration, including The Committee had three meetings during bonuses and the granting of incentives k taxation advice: the year.
Where appropriate other Directors, under the companys schemes: the internal and external auditors and senior k accounting due diligence: and k ensuring that an appropriate proportion management attended Committee meetings k advice on the disposal of Thermal of pay is linked to corporate and to present reports and respond to questions Transfer their appointment followed individual performance: and posed by the Committee.
k review and approval of the Chairmans Financial Statements fees.
The Committee is confident that the The Committee ensured that the annual objectivity and independence of the auditors and interim statements represented an During the year the Remuneration was not affected by this further work.
It is accurate, clear and balanced assessment Committee met seven times.
clear from independent surveys that the of the Groups position.
It reviewed the company continues to award a low amount effectiveness of the overall audit process All members of the Remuneration of non-audit work to its auditors KPMG, and met with the external auditor and Committee are independent non-Executive compared to most FTSE 100 companies.
Full management separately to identify any Directors.
The Committee is chaired by David disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during areas of concern in the preparation of Payne, with the other members being Kevin the year is made in Note 3 to the Accounts.
The external auditors attended each During the year the Committee received As part of the Committee evaluation process, committee meeting.
In addition, the briefings on new accounting developments, the Chairman of the Committee sought the Committee met with the external auditors such as reports and presentations on the views of the Company Secretary and the without the presence of management.
International Financial Reporting Standards Director of Human Resources.
During the year the Committee approved and how those standards are expected to the terms of appointment of the external affect the Groups reported results.
Full details of Directors remuneration, auditors and their remuneration.
The general policy and developments during the Committee recommended to the Board Internal Financial Control and Risk year are given in the Remuneration Report that KPMG Audit Plc be proposed for Management Systems set out on pages 36 to 41. reappointment, having been satisfied with The Committee considers areas where there the scope and results of the audit work, could be significant risk such as Energy NOMINATION COMMITTEE their objectivity and their independence.
Follow-up reports are The Board endorsed the Committees also provided to the Committee to ensure The Nomination Committee reviews the recommendation.
The composition and balance of the Board review by the Committee of the effectiveness and following a formal and rigorous review of the companys internal financial control recommends suitable candidates for and risk management systems is described appointment as Directors.
in the Internal Control and Risk Management section below.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance Continued 32 confidence, raise concerns about any Membership of the Nomination Committee and environmental policies have been possible improprieties in financial and is made up of: three non-Executive Directors, implemented, setting targets and monitoring other matters.
David Payne, Susan Rice and Kevin Smith: performance, and promoting awareness the company Chairman, Sir Robert Smith of these issues throughout the Group.
Control is maintained through an who chairs the committee : and Ian organisation structure with clearly Marchant.
Members do not take part in Following the Committee evaluation defined responsibilities, authority levels discussions about their own appointment.
programme the membership was revised, and lines of reporting: the appointment and the terms of reference updated, to of suitably qualified staff in specialised During the year the Nomination Committee reflect the strategic focus on these areas business areas: and continuing investment met on one occasion to review the current with primary responsibility remaining with in high quality information systems.
These and future structure of the Board.
The membership now methods of control are subject to periodic consideration it recommended the comprises Colin Hood Chairman, the review as to their implementation and reappointment of Sir Robert Smith, Susan Director of Human Resources, the Group continued suitability.
Rice and Ren Mdori as Directors of the Health, Safety and Environmental Manager company for a further period of three years.
and Kevin Smith, non-Executive Director.
The main financial risk which the Group could face is in respect of interest rates and, RISK COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK to a lesser extent, inflation, foreign MANAGEMENT exchange, liquidity and credit.
The Board The Risk Committee comprises Alistair reviews and agrees policies for addressing Phillips-Davies Chairman, Ian Marchant, The Directors acknowledge that they have each of these risks.
The key issue of Gregor Alexander and senior managers responsibility for the Groups systems of exposure to energy prices and volume is from Energy Trading, Electricity Generation internal control and risk management addressed by the Risk Committee.
It met 12 times during the year and for monitoring their effectiveness.
The to review and manage the operational and purposes of these systems are to manage, There is relatively little exposure to foreign financial risks and exposures in Energy rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to currency risk as the United Kingdom is the Trading, interest rates and currency achieve business objectives, to provide Groups main area of operation.
Following the Committee reasonable assurance as to the quality of or plant are contracted in foreign currency, evaluation programme, the terms of management information and to maintain it is the Groups policy to hedge all material reference of the Risk Committee were proper control over the income, expenditure, purchases through the use of foreign reviewed and updated.
As a result of the assets and liabilities of the Group.
currency swaps and forward rate contracts.
review the authority levels for the approval of wholesale energy trading were revised No system of control can, however, provide There is also the risk of mechanical or to reflect current market conditions.
absolute assurance against material process failure in the Groups operations.
Accordingly, the Any material failure in the Groups licensed EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Directors have regard to what controls, operations in electricity generation, in their judgement, are appropriate to the transmission, distribution and supply and The Executive Committee comprises all the Groups businesses, to the materiality in the supply and storage of gas would be Executive Directors and other senior Group of the risks inherent in these businesses, particularly significant.
The Chairman is Ian Marchant, and to the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
addressed through the Groups focus on apart from meetings on operational seeking operational excellence and on performance matters, which are chaired by The Board and its Committees maintain an maintaining the highest standards of safety Colin Hood.
It met 12 times during the year ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and quality.
and was responsible for all key management and managing the significant commercial, issues arising from the business of the financial, social, ethical, environmental and The Group is exposed to economic regulation Group: the implementation of the Group general risks to the Groups business.
There are strategy: and monitoring the operational Throughout the year, each business unit management structures in place to mitigate, and financial performance and assessing evaluates risks with the key risks being influence and respond to such developments, and reviewing risks arising from the reflected in reports to the Board and or the and to engage with the Industry Regulator, Groups business.
This process is government ministers and officials, and regularly reviewed by the Board and, has been other key bodies.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL in place throughout the year up to the date ADVISORY COMMITTEE of approval of the accounts.
As part of this There are established procedures in place for process the Audit Committee reviews the regular budgeting and reporting of financial The Committee met quarterly.
It is arrangements by which staff can, in information.
The Groups performance is responsible for ensuring that health, safety Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 33 The company also runs a dividend reviewed by the Board and the Executive COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS reinvestment plan, details of which Committee.
Reports include variance AND MAJOR BUSINESS STAKEHOLDERS can be found on the companys website.
analysis and projected forecasts of the year compared to approved budgets and nonThe Directors acknowledge the importance Shareholders can access Investor Centre, financial performance indicators.
There a free-internet based service provided is a continuing programme of meetings through the registrar where shareholders There are Group policies in place covering between Executive Directors and institutional can view their shareholdings, update their a wide range of issues and risks such as shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The details and manage their share portfolio financial authorisations, IT procedures, non-Executive Directors receive feedback on online.
In addition shareholders can make health, safety and environmental risks, these meetings on a regular basis to allow use of the share dealing service also crisis management, and a policy on ethical them to form a view of the priorities and provided through the registrar.
The business risks associated concerns of institutional investors.
of both services can be found on the with the Groups operations are regularly companys website.
assessed by the Board and the Audit All Directors were present at the Annual Committee.
The Risk Committee comprising General Meeting in 2005 and all intend to To ensure that shareholders have easy three Executive Directors, together with be present at the Annual General Meeting access to as much information as possible, senior managers, meets regularly to review in 2006 to answer shareholders questions.
the new company website scottishrisks and authority levels in key areas of the The companys shareholders are widely southern.
co. uk contains financial and other Groups activities.
To ensure information about the Group, including that the maximum number of shareholders shareholder presentations, stock exchange Review of the System of Internal Control have the chance to attend an AGM, its location announcements, and general business news.
The effectiveness of the Groups systems of is alternated between Scotland and the south In addition, the website contains information internal control is monitored by the internal of England.
relating to the governance of the company, audit department which distributes reports including the Memorandum and Articles of and, where appropriate, action plans to The Chairman introduces the presentation Association, the schedule of matters senior managers, Directors and the external of the companys interim and preliminary reserved to the Board, the terms of reference auditors.
Throughout the year, the Audit results to analysts and investors and he and for each Board Committee and the letters of Committee kept these systems under review the Senior Independent Director also meet appointment for the non-Executive Directors.
reporting regularly to the Board.
The Board with major shareholders from time to time.
during its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control In September 2005, the Board held its and risk management did not identify, nor meeting in London and took the opportunity was advised of, any failings or weaknesses of hosting a meeting with representatives which it has determined to be significant.
of a number of organisations which have Therefore a confirmation in respect of an interest in the Groups activities in areas necessary actions has not been considered such as the environment, energy efficiency, appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that the and regulation.
The purpose of this was to Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance hear their views, suggestions, and any on Internal Control.
concerns and also to explain the Groups position on a wide range of business and This process did not extend to joint ventures policy issues.
and associates for the purposes of this report, although the Group seeks to ensure The company promotes the use of electronic such joint ventures and associates have communications with shareholders.
For all appropriate corporate governance systems shareholders who have opted for this service in place.
where they can view documents online and lodge their proxy vote over the internet, GOING CONCERN the company has undertaken to plant a native species tree in a designated woodland.
The Directors consider that the Group has To date 10,000 trees have been planted.
The adequate resources to continue in next phase of tree planting will take place operational existence for the foreseeable later this year.
The Financial Statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
