Corporate Governance The Group is committed to achieving and maintaining There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board and the highest standards of corporate governance.
This schedule includes: Consequently corporate governance processes remain Approval of the Groups long-term objectives under constant review.
and commercial strategy: Approval of the annual operating and capital The Board expenditure budgets and any material changes The Board currently consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, to them: four Non-Executive Directors, one of whom has been Review of performance in the light of the Groups appointed the Senior Independent Director SID and strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: and four Executive Directors.
Their names and biographical Monitoring the system of internal control and details, including the significant other commitments of corporate governance.
the Chairman, appear on page 28.
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman do not There were six scheduled meetings during the year and interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman a further meeting devoted solely to strategy.
attendance at Board and Committee meetings are set out below: The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent in character and judgement Scheduled Audit  and by reference to the criteria of the Combined Code.
Board Committee Committee Committee No Non-Executive Director: meetings meetings meetings meetings Has been an employee of the Group within the Gerald Corbett 3 3 last five years: Garry Watts 6 6 4 4 Has, or has had within the last three years, a material Ian Adamson 5 6 business relationship with the Group: Mark Moran 6 6 Receives remuneration other than a Directors fee: Mike Pilkington 6 6 Has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, Richard Adam 6 6 5 5 4 4 5 5 Directors or senior employees: Anna Catalano 6 6 5 5 5 5 Holds cross-directorships or has significant links Susan Murray 6 6 5 5 5 5 with other Directors through involvement in other Peter Read 6 6 5 5 4 4 5 5 companies or bodies: Ian Martin former Chairman 3 3 2 2 Represents a significant shareholder: or Has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a Board member.
When The Chairman Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the relevant Gerald Corbett was appointed a Non-Executive Director papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting.
and the Chairman on 1 August 2005, following the retirement of Ian Martin.
All Directors receive updates on the business of the Group and the environment in which it operates, through visual The process for the appointment of the new Chairman and written presentations.
was led by the Nomination Committee the Nomco.
Ian Martin, the previous Chairman, was a member of The management of operational matters within the Group the Nomco, but took no part in any discussion for the is delegated to the Executive Team, which comprises the appointment of his successor.
The Nomco appointed an Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
external recruitment consultant and a job specification Board evaluation was prepared.
The consultants identified several During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the candidates who were considered and a number were evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees interviewed before Mr Corbett was recommended and the individual Directors, and concluded that an internal to the Board.
evaluation, led by the SID, continued to be appropriate.
Mr Corbett received a comprehensive induction All Directors were required to complete a detailed programme organised by the Company Secretary.
questionnaire, which each Director then discussed This included meetings with all senior management, individually with the SID.
The results of the evaluation visits to a number of the Groups locations, including exercise were presented to the Board and a number of Manchester, Peterlee, Thailand, China and India, and recommendations were considered and implemented, meetings with a number of major shareholders.
including the creation of a more formal management development programme and improving the Boards knowledge of the supply chain process.
Dialogue with shareholders The Company has an established programme of communication with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and certain other senior executives meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman has also attended a number of these meetings.
The Chairman and SID make themselves available to meet with institutional shareholders.
An investor relations report is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, to communicate with investors and encourage their participation.
The Directors speak to shareholders informally after the meeting.
28 29 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 2006 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees The Board has established three committees.
Each committee operates in accordance with formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys website, www.
Committee meetings are held prior to Board meetings and the committee chairmen report at the next Board meeting on the proceedings of the committee which they chair.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Chairman Richard Adam Peter Read Peter Read Members Richard Adam Gerald Corbett Richard Adam Anna Catalano Peter Read Anna Catalano Susan Murray Garry Watts Susan Murray Peter Read Peter Read Attending by invitation Group Chairman Group HR Director Group Chairman Chief Executive Company Secretary Group HR Director Finance Director Chief Executive External auditor Company Secretary Head of Business Assurance Financial Controller Company Secretary Summary of principal Review of the interim and Leading the process for the Reviewing the remuneration activities during the year annual reports, including a appointment of the new policy for the Executive Directors consideration of the external Chairman and making and Executive Team.
Further auditors comments thereon a recommendation for his information on the work of this Review of the changes in appointment to the Board Committee can be found in the UK GAAP and IFRS Reviewing the size and Remuneration Report on pages Review of risk management and composition of the Board 35 to 41. internal control systems Consideration of succession Review of the Groups internal issues audit processes, including the Recommending the extension approval of the annual internal of the appointment of Peter Read audit plan and approving the as a Non-Executive Director appointment of the Head of Business Assurance Monitoring the provision of services by the external auditors and an annual appraisal of their effectiveness as auditors Policy on Auditors independence Under this policy, it has been agreed that, due to their In order to safeguard the independence of the external understanding of the Groups business and therefore auditors, the Audit Committee has put in place a detailed ensuring cost efficiency, the external auditors may be policy on the provision of services by the external auditors, engaged for the following non-audit services, for which which sets out the services which the external auditors are there is a pre-agreed limit for fees not including VAT which allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and those do not require prior approval from the Audit Committee: which are prohibited to them.
Under this policy, external Audit-related regulatory reporting including auditors cannot be engaged to provide any of the interim review, covenant reporting and other audit following services: certificates 100,000 : Design or implementation of IT systems: Further assurance including advice on accounting Valuation: matters, non-regulatory reporting on internal Internal audit: and controls or corporate governance, due diligence Litigation support, legal, corporate finance, tax work and environmental audits 100,000 : and advice if on a wholly or partly contingent fee basis, Tax compliance and tax advisory services 300,000. recruitment, executive compensation advice, The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve accounting and actuarial valuation.
Secondment of urgent engagements not covered by these categories, senior audit staff to the Company is also prohibited.
subsequently notifying the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors during the year is set out on page 76.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 2006 Internal control Combined Code compliance The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal During the year, the Company complied with the Code, control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is except in the following respects: monitored by the Audit Committee.
Key elements of A4.1: The Nomination Committee comprises the Group this system include: Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule Director and a Non-Executive Director.
Whilst the Board of matters reserved for Board decision: considers the Group Chairman to be independent, Clearly defined organisational structures and membership of this Committee does not consist of a appropriate delegation of authority: majority of independent Non-Executive Directors as Centralised treasury operations operating within defined by the Code.
defined limits: Receipt of annual compliance statements from all B2.1: Until he retired from the Board, Ian Martin, the former statutory units within the Group, stating compliance Group Chairman was a member of the Remuneration with Group accounting manuals: and Committee.
Although the Board considered Mr Martin to An effective Internal Audit function providing be independent, composition of this committee did not, independent scrutiny of internal control systems at that time, comply with the requirement that all and risk management procedures.
members should be independent Non-Executive Directors as defined by the Code.
A strategic review of the internal audit process was undertaken during the year and a number of Going concern recommendations were made and implemented.
Changes After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the have also been made to the risk management process Group and the Company have adequate resources to within the Group.
Risk management is integral to all operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they business operations.
Consequently, procedures have been continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing developed to embed risk management into the day-to-day the financial statements.
activities of all executives within the Group.
Management of this area is now the responsibility of the Executive Team.
The Executive Team meets monthly and risk management is a standing agenda item.
A significant element of the new process has been the development of a Group Risk Matrix the Matrix.
The Matrix has been developed by identifying risk, both financial and non-financial, based on a top down and bottom up review and will be reviewed twice a year by the Executive Team.
The Board believes that the Company operates an effective embedded system of internal control and is confident that it complies with Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
Further information about the risk management process is given on pages 32 and 33.
30 31 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 2006
