ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 33 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles Dialogue with Shareholders of corporate governance contained in the 2003 The Company has a well-established programme Combined Code on Corporate Governance the of meetings with substantial investors and brokers, Code which are appended to the Listing Rules including presentations in respect of both the interim of the Financial Services Authority and for which and annual reports and holding discussions in respect the Board is accountable to shareholders.
of future growth and strategy.
The senior nonexecutive director is available to meet with shareholders.
Statement about Applying Principles of Good Governance Board of Directors The Company has applied the Principles of Good The Board of Directors at 16 March 2007 comprises Governance set out in Section 1 of the Code by ten directors: five executive directors and five noncomplying with the Code of Best Practice as reported executive directors.
Terms of reference for full Board below.
Further explanation of how the Principles approval are in place, which includes, inter alia, the have been applied is set out below and, in connection review of the Groups Health & Safety performance, with directors remuneration, in the Directors the approval of annual and interim results, significant Remuneration Report.
transactions, major capital expenditures, the yearly business plan and budget, the Groups long-term Statement of Compliance commercial strategy, establishing financial authority with the Code of Best Practice limits and Group treasury policies.
The Company has complied generally throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 with the provisions of The Board meets not less than four times a year the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the eight meetings were held during 2006, attended by Code.
As Executive Chairman, Alasdair Locke has all 10 Directors with the exception of Messrs Duncan, certain strategic responsibilities often associated with Ferrn, Hollis and Temmen who each attended a Chief Executive Officer CEO.
The Board believes seven meetings.
this to be appropriate since, due to his significant Matters are delegated to the Audit and Remuneration shareholding, Alasdair Lockes interests are closely Committees, as appropriate, including those detailed aligned with those of most other shareholders.
A Nominations Committee was established Responsibility for operational matters rests with the on 14 December 2006. appropriate executive directors.
John Hollis, as the nominated senior non-executive, together with Robert The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive Duncan, Javier Ferrn, Isla Smith and George Watkins, directors commits sufficient time to the fulfilment provide strong independent advice.
of their duties as a director of the Company.
The Board considers these five non-executive For some years the Company has purchased insurance directors to be independent as they hold only minimal to cover its directors and officers against their costs shareholdings and, other than remuneration for their in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings services as non-executives, have no other related taken against them in that capacity and in respect of interests in the Group.
Michael Salter is the nominated damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of director responsible for Group HSE matters, with any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, Maurice White being responsible for the HSE matters the Company also indemnifies its directors and officers.
of the KCA DEUTAG Drilling Group of companies.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the director has acted fraudulently Ross Richardson, a director of KCA DEUTAG Drilling or dishonestly.
Group Limited, who reports to Maurice White, is responsible for human resource issues.
Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition all The management team, comprising the executive directors have access to the advice and services directors together with senior managers, meets of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for formally on a quarterly basis to review current ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
business matters and identify any areas of concern.
The appointment of the Company Secretary The Executive Chairman meets once annually with is a matter for the Board as a whole.
the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The non-executive directors meet once annually to appraise the Executive Chairmans performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Corporate Governance 33 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 34 Corporate Governance continued During 2006 the Board, and each of the Audit and In addition the Committee meets once a year with the Remuneration Committees undertook performance external auditors without management being present.
Using the Higgs Suggestions of Good It reviews both the independence and objectivity of the Practice as guidance, the individual directors and or external auditors and any non-audit services provided.
committee members initially completed separate Any assignment in respect of non-audit services where questionnaires.
The results were compiled and analysed the level of fees is expected to be in excess of 50,000 by the Company Secretary who prepared reports to the has to be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Board and each of the committees.
The areas covered The Committee has put in place and periodically included the role of the executive and non-executive reviews procedures to comply with the Public Interest directors and the Board Board committees, leadership Disclosure Act 1998, known as whistleblowing.
and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership and culture The role of the Group compliance officer, who reports and corporate governance.
The results were then to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, includes considered by the Board and each of these committees internal audit functions.
The overall scope of the in meetings as specific items of business.
The Board internal audit programmes are approved by the and Board committees are comfortable that they Audit Committee, and the results thereof reviewed.
These exercises will be Remuneration Committee repeated annually.
Non-executive members: George Watkins Chairman, The Executive Chairman also convened a formal John Hollis, Javier Ferrn, all of whom are considered meeting of the non-executive directors to assess to be independent non-executive directors.
George the performance of the Board in the absence of the Watkins has Chaired the Committee since May 2005. executive directors.
Amongst other matters when The Committees terms of reference are principally undertaking this exercise, the Chairman had regard concerned with the remuneration, in all its forms, to the principles in the new code relating to evaluation of main Board executive directors and other senior of the collective and individual performance of executives of the Group.
The non-executive directors, in the absence of the Chairman, met to assess The Committee meets not less than twice a year, the Chairmans effectiveness.
four meetings were held during 2006, attended by all members of the Committee and with the assistance The training needs of both executive and nonof information provided from external sources and executive directors, taking into account their individual from sources within the Company ensures that the roles and responsibilities, are periodically reviewed salary, benefits and pension arrangements of the and acted upon as appropriate.
executive directors, together with awards under Audit Committee any executive incentive plan, share option or other Non-executive members: Robert Duncan Chairman, similar schemes are appropriate.
Further information John Hollis, George Watkins, all of whom are is contained within the Directors Remuneration considered to be independent non-executive directors.
Report set out on pages 36 to 40.
Robert Duncan, who has the necessary financial Nominations Committee experience, has chaired the Committee since Non-executive members: Isla Smith Chair, Robert September 2003.
Duncan, George Watkins, all of whom are considered to be independent non-executive directors and The Committees terms of reference are principally executive member: Peter Milne.
Isla Smith has Chaired concerned with accounting matters, financial the Committee since its formation in December 2006. reporting and internal controls.
The Committee meets not less than three times a year three The Committees terms of reference are principally meetings were held during 2006 which had concerned with the review on an annual basis, a 100% attendance to review any significant of the structure, size and composition of the Board, judgements made in the preparation of the half-yearly succession planning and to be responsible for and annual accounts before they are submitted to the identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board Board.
It agrees with the external auditors the nature vacancies as and when they arise.
The Committee and scope of their work and discusses with them is to meet not less than twice a year one meeting the results thereof.
The Committee has the power was held during 2006, which was attended by all to seek external advice as and when required.
members of the Committee other than Robert Duncan.
Corporate Governance - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 34 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 35 Internal Control Recognising and managing risk is a process that occurs The Board acknowledges that it is responsible at all levels within the Group and is an inherent part for the Groups system of internal control and for of the management culture.
At the operational level, reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system line management is responsible for the process of internal control is designed to manage rather of identification and evaluation of significant risks, than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business assessing the design and operation of suitable internal objectives, and can only provide reasonable controls, and the integration of these processes into and not absolute assurance against material the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Each business unit and support function is required The Group adopts internal controls appropriate to produce a risk matrix which identifies the key to its business and culture.
An ongoing process business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, has been established for identifying, evaluating their impact if they do occur and the actions being and managing the significant risks faced by the taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Group and is in accordance with the guidance The Risk Committee reviews the risk information of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
received and brings its own top-down contribution The Board has carried out regular reviews of the and judgement to bear.
The resultant findings are effectiveness of the Groups system of internal brought to the Board in a summarised form as controls during 2006, and will ensure that further well as being fed back to the organisation through such reviews are performed on a regular basis.
management to ensure a common understanding The Board is satisfied that effective controls are and the implementation of necessary actions.
in place and that risks have been mitigated to an The Risk Committee will continue to hold at least two acceptable level.
The key elements of the internal risk reviews each year in order to ensure that changing control system and the processes used by the circumstances are being monitored and necessary Board to review the effectiveness of the system actions being implemented.
Two meetings were include the following: held during 2006, which had 100% attendance.
Risk Management Assurances The Risk Management Committee continues to have The directors derive further assurances from the responsibility for co-ordinating the ongoing process following internal and external controls: of identifying, evaluating and reporting progress to the Board on managing the Groups key risks, Historical financial performance and revised including a specific assessment for the purposes forecasts for the full year are regularly reported of this annual report.
The Committee, whose to the Board with significant variances explained members are John Hollis Chairman, Peter Milne, and key risks identified: Michael Salter and Alec Banyard, regularly reviews Reports from the Audit and Risk Management and challenges the effectiveness of the risk process, Committees: recognising that the process is iterative, requiring ongoing monitoring and improvement.
Both a Client audits: top-down and a bottom-up approach is adopted External audits: and in order to achieve a broad view of risk from staff at different levels within the organisation.
internal audits to assess compliance the compliance manager plays a significant role in the risk management process.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the remit, authority, resources and scope of work of the compliance function on an annual basis.
By order of the Board Alec W. J. Banyard Company Secretary, 16 March 2007 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Corporate Governance 35
