Nomination Committee report 8.1 Composition of the Nomination 8.3 Succession Planning Arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of Committee succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the The Nomination Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure Directors that the Board considers to be independent, Robert Speirs who with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from acts as Chairman, Ewan Brown, Russell Walls and Janet Morgan.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop Committee may also include, by invitation, the other Non-Executive in some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider Directors, as necessary.
Brian Souter resigned from the Nomination and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good Committee during the year.
managers who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to become Managing Directors of 8.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee individual business units.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting new The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination description of the role and the required attributes for each particular Committee and the Board seeks to identify new Directors and senior appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of managers to ensure succession of Directors is conducted in a managed way, the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on Directors having without significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
Non-Executive Directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the letter of appointment will set out the expected time commitment.
Robert Speirs No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the 28 June 2006 Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees nom.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental 9.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and matters.
Environmental Committee The Committee visits operational locations to observe health, safety and The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an environmental management in practice.
independent Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other independent Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, and one other NonThe Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators Executive Director, Ann Gloag who joined the Committee in June 2005.
One across the Group as well as information on significant accidents involving the Executive Director, Graham Eccles was also a member of the Committee until Group.
Details of the Groups health, safety and environmental policies and activities The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee are contained in section 3.11.4 on pages 15 and 16 of this Annual Report.
are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees health.
pdf 9.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Committee was established to discuss health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety network.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants.
Janet Morgan Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee from time to time providing the Committee with an opportunity 28 June 2006 Stagecoach Group plc | page 27
