Corporate governance report 6.1 Introduction Is the Director willing to stand up to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance Does the Director have a sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups practices within the Group in conformity with the Combined Code.
business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy and managements running of the business?
This section of the report discusses Stagecoach Groups corporate governance arrangements and management structures.
It also includes the disclosures recommended by the Combined Code, and describes how the 6.4 Operation of the Board principles of good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined The Board is scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional meetings of Code have been applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Board provided from each of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next Health, Safety and Enviromental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are 6.2 Compliance with the Combined Code properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the The Directors believe that the Group currently complies with all of the Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same recommendations contained in the Combined Code.
as the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the 6.3 Composition of the Board agreed strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and The Combined Code suggests that independent Non-Executive Directors Chief Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Following Graham Eccles retirement on 30 April 2006 and Sir George The Directors biographies appear on page 18 of this Annual Report and Mathewsons appointment on 8 June 2006, the Companys Board comprises illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board nine Directors.
Excluding the Chairman, the Board considers there to be five to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent Non-Executive Directors.
independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
Independent The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of Non-Executive Other Chairman Director Director financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The Robert Speirs Chairman Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, Iain Duffin Non-Executive Director led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, meet without the Sir George Chairman at least annually.
Mathewson Non-Executive Director Janet Morgan Non-Executive Director All Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the Russell Walls Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups Brian Souter Chief Executive expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their Martin Griffiths Finance Director duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for Ewan Brown, one of the five independent Non-Executive Directors, has ensuring the Board procedures are complied with.
served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble Grossart, which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and All Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual understands investor concerns over longer-serving Non-Executive Directors General Meeting following their appointment and all Directors are required but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as independent.
Ewan to stand for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
NonBrowns long association with the Group enables him to provide a robust and Executive Directors who are not considered by the Board to be independent, effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed or are considered independent but have served on the Board for more than knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
The Board believes nine years, submit themselves for annual re-election.
Each director receives that Ewan Browns length of service enhances his effectiveness as a noninduction training on appointment and subsequently such training or executive director and that he remains independent in character and briefings as are considered necessary to keep abreast of matters affecting judgement.
In recognition of the factors suggested by the Combined Code their roles as Directors.
The Chairman endeavours to ensure that all Directors for determining independence, Ewan Brown will stand for annual re-election including any newly appointed Directors attend the Annual General as a director.
In addition, Ewan Brown does not now serve on the Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors.
Remuneration Committee or the Audit Committee.
In assessing independence, the Board takes into account the wider composition and The number of full Board meetings during the year was 6.
The full Board balance of the Board as a whole.
meets once a year at an operational location and regular verbal communication is maintained by the Chairman between meetings to ensure In determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors, the Board all Directors are well informed on strategic and operational issues.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the following questions: The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment Does the Director provide a robust and effective challenge to policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and management?
risk management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are Is the Director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Does the Director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board?
The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where 6.7 Audit Committee any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the Following Ewan Browns resignation from the Audit Committee on 2 running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in December 2005, the Audit Committee now comprises three independent the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the Non-Executive Directors.
It receives reports from major business functions director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any including the Risk Assurance Function.
It also receives reports from the concerns leading to his or her resignation.
It considers the scope and results of the audit, the interim and annual financial statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the 6.5 Operational Management of the Group cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the internal and external The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group auditors.
Chief Executive and Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors maintain The Audit Committee report is set out on page 26. day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in videoconferences with non-board senior management.
Following the Groups disposal of its New Zealand operations in November 2005, there are three principal 6.8 Remuneration Committee operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing Director, North America: The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board for headed by two Chief Operating Officers and UK Rail: headed by a Chief ensuring that the Executive Directors remuneration is appropriate to attract, Executive which each comprise a varying number of autonomous business motivate and retain Executive Directors of the quality needed to run the units, each headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for Groups business successfully.
The constitution and operation of the the day-to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or Remuneration Committee complies with the principles and provisions of the managing director is supported by his her own management teams.
Combined Code and this is detailed in the Remuneration Committee report laid out on pages 28 to 34.
A Rail Business Development Committee, comprising the two Group Executive Directors and other senior management, oversees the performance and development of the Groups rail business, including bidding on new rail 6.9 Nomination Committee franchises.
The Nomination Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors one of whom is the Chairman of the Company that the Board The Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, is headed by a Chief Executive.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating Virgin Rail Group board meetings were attended by the Group Executive the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where Director of Rail and the Company Secretary during the year.
On the Group appropriate suggesting new appointments.
Executive Director of Rails retirement, the Chief Executive of the Rail division assumed this role.
The Nomination Committee report is set out on page 27.
6.6 Performance evaluation 6.10 Health, Safety and Environmental The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each Committee individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an independent the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other independent Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, and one other Non-Executive Director, the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Ann Gloag who joined the Committee in June 2005.
One Executive Director, Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
Graham Eccles was also a member of the Committee until his retirement on 30 The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Committee was established to discuss health, safety and The Chairman obtains feedback from each individual Director on the environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on performance of the Board and other Board members this involves the these matters.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, consultants.
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report is set out on undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its committees.
Each Director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and each committee of which he or she is a member.
The assessment of effectiveness included : Consideration of the effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of the Group: The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the Board and its committees: The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and The composition of the Board and its committees.
The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded that overall the Board and the committees continue to operate in an effective and constructive manner.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 Corporate governance report 6.11 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings and meetings of committees by Director during the year ended 30 April 2006: PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration Health, Safety and Nomination IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Environmental Committee Committee Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Robert Speirs 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Graham Eccles 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 n a n a Ewan Brown 6 6 2 2 n a n a n a n a 1 1 Iain Duffin 6 6 4 4 3 3 3 3 n a n a Ann Gloag 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2 3 n a n a Sir George Mathewson n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Janet Morgan 5 6 3 4 3 3 3 3 0 0 Russell Walls 5 6 4 4 3 3 n a n a 0 0 6.12 Relations with shareholders 6.13 Risk management The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing of the Groups position and prospects in all of its communications with the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, and shareholders.
the Board considers that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control.
The Board considers communications with shareholders, whether large or small, external or employee, to be extremely important.
The Group holds The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional shareholders, 13 and 14. other fund managers and representatives of the financial press.
The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations manage acceptable levels of risk.
The Directors acknowledge their to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
During the control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although the system can provide year, written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from only reasonable and not absolute assurance of material misstatement or loss, shareholders and all shareholders receive interim and annual reports or the the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable summary annual report.
Each shareholder is given the opportunity to elect assurance that any risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt which document they require and this allows our reporting to be more with appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk focused towards the needs of individual shareholders.
Information is also review and certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
available on the Groups website http: www.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders or mitigated by the Group.
where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to The Groups risk management process is presently being introduced to those resolve concerns.
businesses recently acquired by the Group but was embedded throughout Private and institutional shareholders are welcome to attend and participate the rest of the businesses during the financial year ended 30 April 2006 and at the Annual General Meeting and any Extraordinary General Meetings.
The up to the date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a Group aims to ensure that all Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and Environmental such reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer Committee.
The Board is satisfied that the processes are in place to ensure questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for that risks are appropriately managed.
shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors on a variety of The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director separate issue.
Resolutions are proposed annually in respect of the financial of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework statements, and the Remuneration report.
At each Annual General Meeting, within that unit.
The Audit Committee meets with representatives of the Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes operating units because this is one way for an independent and objective lodged for and against each resolution, and the number of abstentions.
appraisal of risk management to be obtained.
Details of the proxy votes are also published on the Groups website at http: www.
com scg ir shareholder agm Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is The Company and its Registrars have established procedures to ensure that ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division votes cast are properly received and recorded.
page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc The Group Risk Assurance function, which is outsourced to and managed by significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances Deloitte, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in monitoring risk are reviewed on a daily basis, cash flows are compared to budget on a management processes to determine whether internal controls are four-weekly basis and any material variances between earnings and effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based approach is expected cash flows are investigated.
applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and improving regular reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters where possible the Groups full risk management process in the context of including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury the Groups overall goals.
management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, recommended by the external auditors.
including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being acquired or divested.
Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Rail each operating unit maintains controls and procedures appropriate to the Group, but the Group maintains an overview of Virgin Rail Groups business business.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the risk management process through representation on the board and audit management of each business confirming that they have reviewed the committee.
Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
As might be with representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture expected, a number of minor internal control weaknesses were identified follows appropriate risk management procedures.
The Groups Audit by this procedure.
None of the weaknesses have resulted in any material Committee reviews the financial statements of Virgin Rail Group together losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the with the minutes, external audit presentations, management presentations Groups Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part of and internal audit presentations from the Virgin Rail Group audit committee the maintenance and improvement of our risk management procedures.
a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and which is subject to regular monitoring.
6.14 Internal control The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, 6.15 Pension schemes enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: independent fund managers.
There are twelve trustees for the principal UK an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, scheme of whom five are employee representatives nominated by the identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a members on a regional basis and one is a pensioner trustee.
The chairman panel consisting of Executive Directors and or senior managers by each of the trustees of the principal UK scheme served for eight years as a fund business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
member elected representative on the National Association of Pension Funds investment council.
He also sits independently on two industry-wide reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income schemes, as a DTI appointed trustee of the Mineworkers Pension Scheme statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
and as an elected representative of all railway employers on the board of the Group management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
 LLP acts as the actuary and investment advisor for a pension scheme acquired as part of the acquisition of Traction Group Limited third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where during the year, The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited Pension Plan.
significant inherent risks have been identified, such as treasury Pricewaterhouse Coopers do not act as actuaries or advisors of any of the management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition other principal UK pension schemes.
During the financial year ended 30 April 2005, a Pensions Oversight a decentralised organisation structure with clearly defined limits of Committee was established.
This Committee is chaired by a Non-Executive responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
Director and also comprises one Executive Director and other members of control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings senior management.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities together remit covers all matters affecting the Groups pension schemes from the with regular contact between Stagecoach management and the perspective of the Group, and it will consider, develop and propose management of the relevant entities.
recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding issues and implications, a performance management appraisal system covers the Groups senior investment strategy, and the related administration for all of the employee management and is based on agreed financial and other performance pension schemes of the Group and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
