Audit Committee report 7.1 Composition of the Audit Committee 7.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing The Audit Committee presently comprises three independent Non-Executive Non-Audit Services Directors.
At the present time, its members are Russell Walls Chairman, Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are : Janet Morgan and Iain Duffin.
Russell Walls is a former Finance Director of a Audit related services - These are services that the auditors must FTSE 100 company.
The Committee therefore has significant recent and undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as relevant financial expertise and is appropriately qualified to undertake its auditors.
Such services include formalities relating to bank financing, duties in an effective manner.
Ewan Brown resigned from the Committee on regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would 2 December 2005. generally provide all such services, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
7.2 Operation of the Audit Committee Tax consulting - It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each The Audit Committee met four times during the year and has met a further specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills time in June 2006.
It receives reports from major business functions and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors including the Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
It considers the scope and results of the audit, the interim and annual financial statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place General consulting - For other consulting work, the Group will select an throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general website at consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees audit.
pdf satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
7.3 Review of External Auditors The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making 7.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship Group and the auditors.
This review includes: between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the of any other fees in excess of 50,000 cumulative which are payable to context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: function on an annual basis.
the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm 7.6 Speaking Up Policy or offices of the same firm are involved: and The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately process on an annual basis.
The Committee takes a particular interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 0.7m for  LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.1m were discussed by the Audit Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The Committee believes the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting Russell Walls firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having particular Chairman of the Audit Committee areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
28 June 2006 page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc
