Corporate Governance The Company has complied with the relevant principles of the range of business experience and expertise, which ensures an Combined Code on Corporate Governance as annexed to the effective Board to lead and control the Group.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority throughout the year under review.
The Board appoints all new Directors, having first considered recommendations made to it by the Nomination Committee.
The Board Following such appointment, the Director is required to retire The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups and seek election at the next annual general meeting.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved to the Board.
process of rotation, which ensures that approximately one third Included in these matters are the establishment of the Groups of all Directors are required to retire and seek re-election at each strategic objectives, decisions relating to signi cant acquisitions annual general meeting and that no Director serves for more or disposals, setting the annual operating plan and budget and than three years without being proposed for re-election at an overseeing the Groups operating and financial performance.
Biographical details of Directors being In addition, it is responsible for risk management and for the submitted for appointment or re-election are set out in the notes development of Group policies in areas such as health and accompanying the relevant notice of annual general meeting.
safety, Directors and senior management remuneration, environmental, social and ethical issues.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for speci ed terms of three years, subject to the Companys Articles of Association The Board delegates speci c responsibilities to Committees of and to Companies Acts provisions relating to the removal of a the Board.
Each of these Committees has clear written terms Director.
The Board will explain to shareholders in the papers of reference as described below.
The minutes of Committee accompanying a resolution to elect or re-elect a Non-Executive meetings are circulated to all Directors.
All Committees are Director why they believe an individual should be elected or provided with suf cient resources to undertake their duties.
The Chairman will con rm to shareholders when proposing re-election that, following formal evaluation, the Attendance individuals performance continues to be effective and they The Board meets regularly and details of attendances by continue to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Any term individual Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees beyond six years for a Non-Executive Director will be subject to during the year to 30 April 2006 are as follows: particularly rigorous review and will take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Table of attendance Copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of the NonAudit Remuneration Nomination Executive Directors are available on request from the Company Board AGM Committee Committee Committee Secretary and at every annual general meeting of the Company.
Meetings held 6 1 5 5 3 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been set out in writing and approved by the Meetings attended: Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Lord Baker of Dorking 6 1 5 5 3 Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups C. Child 6 1 business and for implementing Board strategy and policy.
1 A. M. Riddy 5 1 Lord Steinberg 6 1 2 In accordance with corporate governance best practice, the R. Waddington 6 1 5 5 3 Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors T. Weller 6 1 4 4 2 without the Executive Directors being present during the year to 1 J. S. Whittaker 1 30 April 2006.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, Robert R Wiper 6 1 3 Waddington, the Non-Executive Directors met separately without the Chairman present.
1 John Whittaker and Michael Riddy served as Directors for part of the year only.
The Company has arranged an appropriate level of insurance Directors cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
To the The Board comprises Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
extent permitted by UK law, the Company also indemni es Currently there are six Directors: Non-Executive Chairman, Directors.
Neither the insurance nor indemnity provides cover Lord Steinberg: Chief Executive, Bob Wiper: Finance Director, where a Director has acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Colin Child: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Robert Waddington and two other Non-Executive Directors, Lord Baker Directors have a right to ensure that any concerns they have of Dorking and Tim Weller.
Each of these Directors served for the about the running of the Group or a proposed action, where full financial year.
John Whittaker and Michael Riddy resigned as unresolved, are recorded in the Board minutes.
In addition, upon Executive Directors during the year.
The Board recognises the resignation, a Non-Executive Director will be asked to provide a importance of the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, Non-Executive Directors provide independent judgment on if they have any such concerns.
If necessary, Directors are free to issues of strategy, performance and risk through their contribution take independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
at Board and Committee meetings.
The Board has determined that Robert Waddington, Lord Baker of Dorking and Tim Weller can The Senior Independent Director, Robert Waddington, is available be considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through Non-Executive Directors have ensured that they have suf cient the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or time to carry out their duties.
The Directors biographies are set Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact out on pages 18 and 19 and illustrate their wide and diverse is inappropriate.
Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 27 Corporate Governance continued Company Secretary remuneration and bene ts of the Executive Directors and to All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Board and for senior management.
The Company Secretary seeks to ensure that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and The Remuneration Report set out on pages 22 to 26, contains regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary may be a more detailed description of the Companys policies and removed only with the approval of the Board.
The Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, as appropriate, attend meetings of the Induction and Training Committee but they do not participate in discussions about Appropriate training is provided to all Directors on appointment their own remuneration.
to the Board to introduce them to the Group and its business.
Ongoing training is also available to Directors to meet their The Committee has formal written terms of reference which individual needs to update and refresh skills and knowledge.
are available on request to the Company Secretary and are Regular brie ngs are given to all Directors on relevant issues, published on the Companys website, www.
including changes to legislation and corporate governance requirements.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Tim Weller.
All of the Board Evaluation other Non-Executive Directors are members, along with the The Board undertook an evaluation exercise of its main functions Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Committee meets as required and processes during the year.
Each Director completed a detailed to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of questionnaire about the Board and how it operates.
Various issues appropriate calibre for appointment as Directors.
The Committee were highlighted by the results of this exercise which warranted would normally expect to use the services of an external search further consideration and focus by the Board.
Progress with these consultant to help in the search for and selection of external issues will be monitored and reported.
Audit Committee As part of its function, the Committee considers the composition The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Waddington.
of the Board, the demands made on the Board and its Committees The other members are Lord Baker of Dorking and Tim Weller, and the requirements of good corporate governance.
who has relevant and recent financial experience.
The Committee meets to review the Groups interim and annual Financial Before a Non-Executive Director is proposed for re-election by Statements before their submission to the Board, to review the shareholders, the Committee meets to consider whether an appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, individuals performance continues to be effective and whether accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting and they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
The Committee also to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
met during the year to review the performance of the Chairman.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of the external auditors.
The Group has a policy The Committee has formal written terms of reference which regarding external auditor independence and the provision of are available on request to the Company Secretary and are non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Groups policy published on the Companys website, www.
is that, where appropriate, non-audit related work is put out to competitive tender.
Details of the external audit fees for the Banking and Finance Committee year are given in note 4 to the Financial Statements on pages The Banking and Finance Committee is chaired by Robert 47 and 48.
The other members are Tim Weller, the Chairman and the Finance Director.
The Committee makes recommendations The Group has an internal audit function which regularly reports to the Board regarding banking and treasury policy.
Donations Committee The Finance Director, other Executive Directors and senior The Donations Committee is chaired by Lord Baker of Dorking.
management, the Groups external auditors and internal audit, All of the other Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and Chief as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee meets not less than twice a year and considers and oversees charitable donations The Committee has formal written terms of reference which made by the Company.
are reviewed annually and represent current best practice.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on request to the Relations with Shareholders Company Secretary and is published on the Companys website, The Company encourages a dialogue with both its institutional www.
and private investors and responds quickly to all queries received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet Remuneration Committee regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
Robert The Remuneration Committee comprised entirely of independent Waddington, as Senior Independent Director, attended a number Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
The Committee is of shareholder meetings during the year.
At each annual general chaired by Lord Baker of Dorking and Robert Waddington and meeting all Directors, including Committee chairmen, are Tim Weller are members.
The Committee meets as required available for questions.
The Board uses its annual general during the year to review the Companys general policy on meeting to communicate with private investors and encourages executive remuneration, the application of the policy to the Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 28 Corporate Governance continued their participation.
The Companys website can be found at The Audit Committee play an important role in the risk www.
com and further shareholder information management process.
The Committee review, update and can be found at the end of this Annual Report.
approve the annual internal audit plan: provide direction to the internal audit function, external auditors and management in Accountability and Audit the review of internal controls: alert the Board to any emerging Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial issues and consider the draft papers prepared for the annual position in the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review review of effectiveness of the risk management procedures pages 10 to 17 together with the Directors Report pages adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to the 20 and 21 the Board seeks to present a clear and balanced Board for approval.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Directors arrangement by which employees may, in con dence, raise responsibility for the Financial Statements is described on concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial page 30. reporting or other matters.
Risk Management The Group Internal Audit Department give active and continuous The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal support and involvement in risk management processes and, control and periodically reviews its effectiveness.
along with the Security and Compliance Department, report routinely to the Audit Committee.
The Board con rms that in compliance with the Groups risk management policy an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group, has remained in place throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board directly and via the Audit Committee.
This accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control for Directors.
Although the Boards overall responsibility for internal control is recognised, the positive contribution made by senior management to the establishment and ongoing development of risk management within the Group is acknowledged.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, the Board have adopted a number of key processes which include: Regular reporting on the identi cation, monitoring and evaluation of signi cant Group risks and the key risks of operational divisions to enable consistent and focused risk management.
An annual review of the strategic plans for each of the Groups businesses to identify the risks to achieving overall objectives and, where appropriate, implementing any mitigating actions.
Evaluation of monthly financial reporting against budgets by Executive Directors to aid understanding of the control environment.
The review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital expenditure.
Continuous review of internal controls by the Internal Audit Department.
Regular reporting, review and monitoring of health and safety and environmental issues.
Effective implementation and review of the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 29
