CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Tate & Lyle is committed to high standards The Board has a formal schedule of matters is a matter for the Board as a whole.
of corporate governance, business integrity reserved to it for its decision.
This schedule In addition, there is a formal procedure and professionalism in the way it conducts is reviewed annually and includes approval of: in place whereby, in the furtherance of their its activities.
In accordance with the Listing duties, directors can obtain independent Group strategy: Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the professional advice, if necessary, at the annual budget and operating plans: Company is required to state whether Companys expense.
major capital expenditure, acquisitions it has complied with the provisions set or divestments: The Company maintains appropriate out in Section 1 of the Combined Code annual and interim financial results: insurance cover in respect of legal proceedings on Corporate Governance issued by the safety and environmental policies: and other claims against its directors.
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 appointments to the Board and as the Code and, where the provisions have The attendance of individual directors at Company Secretary: not been complied with, to provide an Board meetings held during the year which senior management structure, explanation.
The Company is also required they were eligible to attend is shown in the responsibilities and succession plans: to explain how it has applied the principles table below.
treasury policies: set out in the Code.
system of internal control and risk Meetings attended The paragraphs below, together with the management: and Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 Directors Remuneration Report on pages dividend policy.
Richard Delbridge 8 8 54 to 64, provide details of how the Iain Ferguson 8 8 Other specific responsibilities are delegated Company applies the principles and Simon Gifford 8 8 to Board Committees which operate within complies with the provisions of the Code.
Evert Henkes 8 8 clearly defined terms of reference.
Details Stanley Musesengwa 8 8 of the responsibilities delegated to the Board Compliance with the Combined Code Kai Nargolwala 6 8 Committees are given on pages 50 to 52.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2006, Carole Piwnica 8 8 the Company was in compliance with the The Board meets at least eight times each Stuart Strathdee 8 8 provisions and applied the principles of year.
Two meetings usually take place at Robert Walker from 1 January 2006 2 3 the Code except that, as a consequence an operating subsidiary or joint venture Allen Yurko until 28 July 2005 2 2 of changes to the composition of the Board company.
Board meetings are structured Dr Barry Zoumas from 1 May 2005 8 8 described in the Directors Report on to allow open discussion and all directors page 46, from the beginning of the year participate in discussing the strategy, In the very few instances where a director to 1 May 2005 and from the date of the trading and financial performance and is unable to attend a Board or Committee Annual General Meeting AGM on 28 July risk management of the Company.
The chart meeting, his or her comments on the briefing 2005 to 1 January 2006, at least half the below shows the approximate time the Board papers to be considered at that meeting are Board, excluding the Chairman, did not has taken to consider agenda items during given in advance to the relevant Chairman.
consist of independent non-executive the year separated into general categories.
Since the appointment of Robert Chairman and Chief Executive Walker as an independent non-executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Board allocation of time director from 1 January 2006, the Boards Executive are separated and their For the year ended 31 March 2006 composition has been in compliance with responsibilities are clearly established, set the Code.
out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Strategy 44% Chairman is responsible for the leadership At the date of this Annual Report, the Operations 15% and workings of the Board and ensuring Finance and Risk 22% Board considers that the Company is in Capital expenditure its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive compliance with the applicable provisions and investments 9% for the running of the business and the of the Code.
Governance 7% implementation of Board strategy and policy.
Other 3% Board of Directors The significant current commitments of the The Board is collectively responsible for Chairman, Sir David Lees, are set out in his promoting the success of the Company biography on page 42.
During the year, he All substantive agenda items have and for providing entrepreneurial leadership was appointed as Deputy Chairman and comprehensive briefing papers which are within a framework of prudent and effective Senior non-executive director of QinetiQ circulated five days before the meeting.
controls that enable risk to be assessed and Group plc.
The Board is satisfied that this Members of executive management attend managed.
It sets the Companys strategic appointment and his other commitments do Board meetings and make presentations aims and ensures that necessary financial not unduly restrict him from carrying out his to the Board on a regular basis.
and human resources are in place to enable duties effectively.
these objectives to be met and undertakes The Company Secretary is responsible for reviews of management performance.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed Board balance and independence In addition, the Board sets the Companys and that applicable rules and regulations are The Board currently comprises the values and standards and ensures that its complied with.
All directors have access to Chairman, who has no executive obligations to its shareholders and others the advice and services of the Company responsibilities, four executive directors are understood and met.
Secretary whose appointment or removal and six non-executive directors.
48 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 With the exception of the Chairman, who Information, induction and professional the framework for the discussions.
is presumed under the Code not to be development The effectiveness of the changes made independent, the Board considers all the The Chairman, with the assistance of the to the Boards processes and procedures non-executive directors to be independent Company Secretary, is responsible for following the evaluation in 2005 were one other than Carole Piwnica who is a former ensuring that the directors receive accurate, of the areas discussed.
The Chairman Chairman of Amylum Europe N. V. and is timely and clear information on all relevant summarised the main themes and paid by the Group for consultancy services matters.
comments arising from the meetings which she performs in addition to her duties and presented a report to the Board for On appointment to the Board, directors as a non-executive director.
The Board concluded that receive a comprehensive induction terms of her consultancy agreement are it was operating in an effective manner programme which includes site visits and given in the Directors Remuneration Report but identified some areas where further meetings with senior management across on page 59. improvements could be made such as to the businesses and Group functions.
New the format of strategic papers provided to In terms of the Code, at the date of directors also receive a pack of background the Board and the content of the agenda for this Annual Report, the Board currently reading about the Group and details of the annual full day Board meeting to discuss comprises five independent directors, five Board procedures and other governancethe Groups strategy.
non-independent directors including the related matters.
Major shareholders have four executive directors and the Chairman.
been offered the opportunity to meet new With regard to the performance of individual non-executive directors as part of their directors, following the evaluation process, Richard Delbridge is the Senior Independent induction programme.
the Chairman concluded that each director Director and is available to shareholders if continues to make an effective contribution they have any issues or concerns.
Training and updates on particular issues to the work of the Board, is well prepared are arranged for directors, as appropriate, The non-executive directors have a wide and informed concerning items to be on an ongoing basis taking into account range of skills and knowledge and combine considered by the Board, has a good their individual qualifications and experience.
broad business and commercial experience understanding of the Groups businesses The Company Secretary also helps directors with independent and objective judgement.
and their commitment to the role remains to undertake any other professional The names and biographical details of the strong evidenced by the Board and development they consider necessary or current directors are given on pages 42 Committee attendance records set out desirable to assist them in carrying out their and 43.
The Board is aware of the other in this report.
duties as directors or as members of the commitments of its non-executive directors relevant Board Committees.
During the year, During the year, the non-executive directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict this included attendance by directors at met together without the Chairman present, with their duties as directors of the external training sessions and seminars run under the chairmanship of the Senior Company.
Changes to the commitments by independent organisations on accounting Independent Director, to appraise the of the non-executive directors are reported and governance-related matters.
Chairmans performance the Senior to the Board.
Independent Director having first sought the Visits to external events or organisations The terms and conditions of appointment views of the executive directors.
In addition, are also arranged for the Board to help the of the non-executive directors are available the Chairman held a private meeting with the non-executive directors in particular to gain for inspection at the Companys registered non-executive directors to appraise the Chief a deeper insight into the Groups strategy office and will be available for inspection at Executives performance and to address any and business activities.
During the year, the the AGM.
other matters the non-executive directors Board visited the Food Ingredients Europe wished to raise.
The outcome of both Fair in Paris and also Leatherhead Food Re-election of directors appraisals was highly positive.
International in the UK, a provider of The Companys Articles of Association consumer research and sensory testing The Audit, Nominations and Remuneration require the re-election of one-third of the services.
Committees each also held an evaluation of Board or the nearest whole number below their work and effectiveness during the year, one-third at each AGM.
All directors are Performance evaluation the results of which were reported to the subject to re-election at least once every During the year, the Board carried out an Board by the respective Committee three years.
Any directors appointed by evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board Chairmen.
The reviews concluded that the Board since the last AGM must stand and its Committees.
As in previous years, each Committee was operating in an for re-election at the next AGM.
Any nonthis was an internal exercise led by the effective manner.
executive directors who have served for Chairman.
more than nine years will be subject to Shareholder communications annual re-election.
The 2006 evaluation involved the Chairman The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director holding one-to-one performance evaluation The names of the directors retiring and and Director of Investor Relations, with meetings with each director, the Company standing for re-election at the 2006 AGM the support of the Chairman and Senior Secretary and the Group Human Resources are set out on page 46.
Further details are Independent Director, maintain a regular Director.
A number of assessment areas, given in the letter from the Chairman to programme of visits and presentations to both on an individual and a collective basis, shareholders in relation to the 2006 AGM.
A detailed were identified by the Chairman in advance report of these discussions and meetings of these meetings which were used as is provided to the Board each time it meets.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Meetings attended In addition, all directors receive copies to make recommendations to the Board of reports issued by analysts and brokers Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 on the appropriate processes for the on the Company.
During the year, the appointment of the Chairman of the Richard Delbridge 8 8 Board received a briefing from one of the Iain Ferguson 8 8 Board: and Companys financial advisers on investors to make recommendations to the Board Evert Henkes 8 8 perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its investor Kai Nargolwala 6 8 on the nomination of the Senior relations activities.
Independent Director, the re-appointment Carole Piwnica 8 8 Robert Walker from 1 January 2006 2 3 of non-executive directors upon the The non-executive directors are encouraged expiry of their term of office and the Allen Yurko until 28 July 2005 2 2 to attend presentations to analysts and Dr Barry Zoumas from 31 May 2005 8 8 proposed re-election of directors retiring shareholders, and in particular the by rotation at the AGM.
presentations that take place on the The Committee comprises the non-executive publication of the Companys interim During the year, two non-executive directors, directors and the Chief Executive under the and annual results.
Dr Barry Zoumas and Robert Walker, were chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
In the case of each The Chairman provides feedback to the The Committee meets before each Board appointment, the Committee first considered Board on any matters raised with him by meeting, as required, and provides an the particular skills, knowledge and major shareholders.
opportunity for the Chairman and Chief experience that would most benefit the Executive to brief and obtain the views of the Some 250 shareholders normally attend the Board.
External recruitment consultants were non-executive directors on specific issues.
AGM and are invited to ask questions and engaged who provided the Committee with meet informally with the directors after the a shortlist of potential appointees from which Nominations Committee formal proceedings have ended.
The level candidates were interviewed and then The members of the Committee during of proxy votes lodged for and against selected for recommendation to the Board the year, together with a record of their each resolution, together with the level for appointment.
attendance at meetings which they were of abstentions, are announced at the AGM eligible to attend, are set out below.
following each vote on a show of hands.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Committee during Meetings attended The Company aims to present a balanced the year, together with a record of their Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 and understandable assessment in all its attendance at meetings which they were Richard Delbridge 8 8 reports to the public and to regulators.
eligible to attend, are set out below.
Iain Ferguson 8 8 Key announcements, financial reports and Evert Henkes 8 8 other information about the Group can Meetings attended Kai Nargolwala 6 8 be found on the Companys website at Evert Henkes, Chairman 8 8 Carole Piwnica 8 8 www.
Richard Delbridge 8 8 Robert Walker from 1 January 2006 2 3 Kai Nargolwala 6 8 Allen Yurko until 28 July 2005 2 2 Board Committees Robert Walker from 1 January 2006 2 3 Dr Barry Zoumas from 31 May 2005 8 8 There are four main Board Committees: Allen Yurko until 28 July 2005 2 2 Chairmans: Nominations: Remuneration: Dr Barry Zoumas from 31 May 2005 8 8 The Committee comprises the non-executive and Audit.
The terms of reference of each directors and the Chief Executive under the Committee are reviewed annually by the The Committee meets as required, usually chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board Board, are available upon request from the before each Board meeting.
The Committee except when the Committee is dealing with Company Secretary and are on the Groups consists solely of independent non-executive the appointment of a successor to the website at www.
Chairman of the Board when the Senior The Committees are provided with sufficient Independent Director chairs the Committee.
The Committee determines the individual resources to undertake their duties through remuneration packages of each executive In terms of the Code, at the date of this access to the services of the Company Annual Report, the Committee comprises director and other members of the Group Secretariat and, if deemed necessary, can Management Committee.
This includes base a majority of independent non-executive obtain independent professional advice at directors.
salary, bonus, long-term incentives, benefits, the Companys expense.
The Company and terms of employment including those The main responsibilities of the Committee Secretary, Robert Gibber, is Secretary to upon which their service may be terminated.
Additionally, the Committee approves the to review the size and composition of base salary, long-term incentives and Chairmans Committee benefits of members of the Group the Board including the planning of The members of the Committee during succession to the Board and the Operational Committee.
In consultation the year, together with a record of their with the Chief Executive, the Committee leadership needs of the Group generally: attendance at meetings which they were to make recommendations to the Board also determines the remuneration eligible to attend, are as follows: of the Chairman.
on candidates for appointment as executive and non-executive directors and as Company Secretary, taking into account the balance of the Board and the required blend of skills and experience: 50 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 The remuneration of the non-executive judgements contained therein including and the remit, organisation, annual plan directors is determined by the Board critical accounting policies and practices: and resources of the Internal Audit excluding the non-executive directors.
to review the Groups internal financial function: controls and its internal control and risk undertaking a review of the effectiveness The Directors Remuneration Report on management systems: of the Internal Audit function.
The pages 54 to 64 provides more information to review and monitor the external Committees review in 2006 concluded on the Companys executive remuneration auditors independence and objectivity that the Internal Audit function was policy and practice, and on the working and the effectiveness of the audit operating effectively: of the Committee.
process, taking into consideration reviewing the Committees terms of relevant UK professional and regulatory reference and its effectiveness and Audit Committee requirements: recommending changes to the Board as The members of the Committee during to make recommendations to the Board, a result of this review.
The review in 2006 the year, together with a record of their for submission to shareholders for their concluded that no recommendations to attendance at meetings which they were approval in general meeting, in relation amend the terms of reference were eligible to attend, are set out below.
to the appointment, re-appointment and required and that the Committee was Meetings attended removal of the external auditors and operating in an effective manner: to approve the remuneration and terms reviewing the Annual Report disclosure Richard Delbridge, Chairman 4 4 of engagement of the external auditors: items relevant to the Committee including Evert Henkes 4 4 to monitor and review the effectiveness the going concern statement and the Kai Nargolwala 3 4 of the Internal Audit function: reports on risk management and internal Robert Walker from 1 January 2006 1 1 to develop and implement a policy on control: Allen Yurko until 28 July 2005 2 2 the engagement of the external auditors reviewing the potential impact on the Dr Barry Zoumas from 31 May 2005 3 3 to supply non-audit services: and Groups financial statements of significant to review arrangements by which corporate governance and accounting The Committee consists solely of employees may, in confidence, raise matters and reviewing the implementation independent non-executive directors.
concerns about possible improprieties of International Financial Reporting All the Committee members have in matters of financial reporting, financial Standards: extensive management experience in control or other matters.
reviewing the findings of the external large international organisations and the auditors, their management letters Chairman, Richard Delbridge, who is a During the year the Audit Committee on accounting procedures and internal chartered accountant, is a former group discharged its responsibilities as set out financial controls and audit representation finance director of a FTSE 100 company.
in its terms of reference by undertaking letters: the following work: The Committee meets four times each year.
meeting privately with the external The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group meeting prior to the Board meeting auditors and the Head of Internal Audit: Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and at which the annual report and financial reviewing procedures under which other members of the senior management statements, and the interim report and employees may, in confidence, raise team as invited by the Committee, together financial statements were approved.
concerns about possible improprieties with the external auditors, usually attend In doing so, the Committee reviewed in matters of financial reporting, financial meetings.
Non-executive directors who are significant accounting policies, financial control or other matters: and not members of the Committee are also reporting issues and judgements and reviewing an annual report on the invited to attend meetings to provide advice reports from the external auditors: Groups system of internal control and as necessary.
The minutes of each meeting reviewing the effectiveness of the external its effectiveness and reporting the results are circulated to all members of the Board.
audit process, the external auditors of the review to the Board.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the strategy and plan for the audit, and the During the year, training was also provided external auditors have access to the qualifications, expertise, resources and to Board and Committee members outside Chairman of the Committee outside independence of the external auditors: the scheduled meetings on subjects of formal Committee meetings.
agreeing the terms of engagement and of particular relevance.
fee of the external auditors for the audit The Committee maintains a formal calendar and recommending to the Board that The Committee operates a policy to of items which are to be considered at each  LLP be safeguard the objectivity and independence Committee meeting and within the annual proposed to shareholders at the Annual of the external auditors.
This policy sets audit cycle to ensure that its work is in line General Meeting for re-appointment out certain disclosure requirements by with the requirements of the Code.
as external auditors to the Company: the external auditors to the Committee, The main responsibilities of the Committee reviewing the policy on auditor restrictions on the employment of the are: independence and the provision of nonexternal auditors former employees, partner audit services by the external auditors: rotation and procedures for the approval of to monitor the integrity of the interim and receiving and considering regular reports non-audit services by the external auditors.
annual financial statements and any from the Head of Internal Audit on the During the year, the Committee reviewed the formal announcements relating to the Groups risk management system, processes which  Companys financial performance, paying findings from internal audit reviews, LLP have in place to safeguard their particular attention to significant reporting Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED independence and received a letter from Risk management of internal control are designed to manage them confirming that, in their opinion, they The Board of Directors has overall rather than eliminate risk, and can only remained independent.
responsibility for the Groups system provide reasonable and not absolute of internal control and risk management.
assurance against material errors, losses, The procedure for the provision of non-audit The schedule of matters reserved to the fraud or breaches of laws or regulations.
related services by the external auditors is Board ensures that the directors control, governed by a schedule appended to the All the material joint ventures which the amongst other matters, all significant policy on auditor independence.
This Group are party to currently follow the strategic, financial and organisational issues.
schedule categorises such services Groups formal systems of internal control between: The Groups enterprise-wide risk and their internal control procedures are management and reporting process, regularly reviewed by the Groups Internal those services which the external auditors which was developed, defined and rolled Audit function.
The systems of internal are permitted to provide: out across the Group by a dedicated risk control are based on a process of those services which the external auditors management team, assists management identifying, evaluating and managing risks are not permitted to provide: and throughout the Group to identify, assess and and include the risk management processes those services which require approval of mitigate risk.
The process, which is designed set out above.
These accord with the the Audit Committee before the external to deliver competitive advantage for the guidance in the Turnbull Report and were auditors can be appointed.
Group, involves the identification and in place throughout this year and up to the A report is made to the Committee each prioritisation of key risks through an ongoing date of the signing of this Annual Report.
time it meets setting out the non-audit programme of workshops, facilitated by the The key risks that might hinder the services provided by the external auditors risk management team, held around the achievement of the Groups business during the year and the fees charged.
During the year, over 325 employees objectives are managed, controlled and of the amounts paid to the external auditors attended 34 risk workshops held throughout monitored by the processes described for audit, audit-related work and non-audit the Group in order to identify risks to the below: work is given in note 7 to the financial business.
The identified risks then cascade statements on page 81. up through functional and divisional levels the Groups businesses operate under to the Group Operational and Group mandatory written policies and Having undertaken a review of the Management Committees.
This culminates procedural manuals to provide an non-audit related services provided during in the identification of the Groups key appropriate control environment.
The the year, the Committee is satisfied that business, financial, operational and Group Policies and Procedures set out they did not prejudice the external compliance risks with associated action the Groups commitment to competence, auditors independence.
plans and controls to mitigate them where integrity and ethical values.
These policies possible and to the extent deemed are reviewed by the Board annually and Executive Committees appropriate taking account of costs changes are made as appropriate to The senior management team operates and benefits.
enhance existing control procedures: through two executive Committees, the key strategic risks are addressed through Group Management Committee and the Under the process, senior executive the Groups process of preparation of Group Operational Committee.
management confirms to the Audit plans by each operating unit and the Committee at least twice a year that these The Group Management Committee, compilation of these risks in the Groups key risks are being managed appropriately which is chaired by Iain Ferguson, Chief operating plan: within their operations and controls have Executive, oversees the development and there is a comprehensive annual planning been examined and are effective.
execution of the Groups strategy and has and financial reporting system comparing Responsibility for managing each key risk overall responsibility for achieving business results with plan and the previous year and the associated mitigating control is results.
The Committee comprises the four on a monthly and cumulative basis.
executive directors, the Group Human allocated to an individual executive within This process of planning, budgeting and Resources Director and the Company each division.
Changes in the status of the making short-term forecasts provides Secretary who is also the Groups General key risks and changes to the risk matrix are early warning of potential financial risks.
Biographical details for members reported quarterly to executive management Revised forecasts for the year are of the Group Management Committee can and to the Board.
The Board reviews the produced at least quarterly.
Reports be found on pages 42 to 44.
include a monthly cash flow statement The Group Operational Committee, which projected for 15 months: Internal control is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa, Chief the Chief Executive, Group Finance The Board of Directors has overall Operating Officer, is responsible for all Director and Chief Operating Officer responsibility for the Groups system aspects of the day-to-day operations and undertake regular financial and trading of the Group.
The members of the of internal control and for reviewing its operational reviews of the major Group Operational Committee are set out effectiveness.
The Board delegates to operating units within the Group: on page 45. executive management the responsibility the Chief Executive, Chief Operating for designing, operating and monitoring both The two Committees meet regularly, either Officer and the Group Finance Director the system and the maintenance of effective in person or by video conference, and at submit written reports to each Board internal control in each of the businesses least four times a year both Committees meeting which include consideration of which comprise the Group.
changing threats and opportunities within 52 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 the business.
The standard Board review of investments and disposals includes identification of major risks that could affect the outcome of each project, with a sensitivity analysis: the Company has defined procedures for the authorisation and project management of capital expenditure and investment, granting of guarantees, trading and hedging of currencies and commodities and use of treasury products: and formal annual reports and presentations are received by the Board on certain areas of special risk.
These include insurance, treasury management, commodity trading, pensions, safety and environmental issues.
The Audit Committee periodically reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control through reports from the external auditors and the Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit function follows a planned programme of reviews that are aligned to the risks existing in the Groups businesses.
They have the authority to review any relevant aspect of the business.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has conducted an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control during the financial year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The review, which is co-ordinated by the Internal Audit function, includes a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls are in place and being operated effectively.
The Internal Audit function monitors and selectively checks the results of this exercise, ensuring that the representations made are consistent with the results of the departments work during the year.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for correcting them are also reported.
The results of this exercise are summarised for the Audit Committee and the Board.
In the event that any significant losses are incurred during the year as a result of the failure of controls, a detailed analysis would be provided to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that no significant weaknesses were identified in relation to the review conducted during the year and accordingly no remedial actions are required to be taken.
