Corporate governance The board is pleased to confirm that, throughout 2006, the There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for group fully complied with all the provisions of the Combined decision by the board that includes the approval of long-term Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 issue issued by objectives and commercial strategy, financial statements, the Financial Services Authority the Code with one exception, major changes to the groups corporate structure, major that the Chairman has been a member of the remuneration acquisitions and disposals, dividend payments, expenditure committee from August 2006, which is permitted by the authority levels and treasury and risk management procedures.
The board practises good The following table identifies the number of board and corporate governance and supports the principles of the committee meetings held during 2006 and the attendance revised Code, which will be applied during 2007 in record of individual directors.
However, directors attend accordance with the recommended application for financial numerous other meetings and visits throughout the year and years beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
The company the board considers that the directors contributions should be has applied the principles of the Combined Code as follows.
measured beyond simply attendance records.
Board meetings The board The first main principle of the Code requires the company to Number of meetings in year 10 have an effective board, which is collectively responsible to Executive directors shareholders for its success.
Other principles emphasise the Andy Boland 10 role of the board in the establishment of the groups strategy 1 Mike Kirkham 3 and oversight of its implementation.
The board should be David Lowden 10 responsible for monitoring the groups financial and operational 3 Pedro Ros 9 performance and ensuring that it has appropriate risk management mechanisms in place.
In addition, the board is Non-executive directors required to ensure that appropriate corporate governance 2 Donald Brydon 9 procedures are in place to protect the interests of Paul Murray 10 shareholders and other stakeholders.
The board is satisfied Alice Perkins 8 that it has met these requirements.
Rmy Sautter 10 4 Sharon Studer 10 As at 5 March 2007, the board comprises the non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and a further Committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration executive director, as well as three further independent Number of meetings in year 4 3 7 non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important Executive directors independent perspective to board decision making.
Andy Boland 1 Mike Kirkham The board reviewed the roles and responsibilities of the David Lowden Chairman and Chief Executive during the year, to ensure 3 Pedro Ros they are comprehensively and clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place.
Paul Murray Non-executive directors continued to act as Senior Independent Director during 2006.
2 Donald Brydon 3 4 On 12 January 2006, Donald Brydon succeeded Tony Cowling Paul Murray 4 7 as Chairman, at which time Tony Cowling assumed the Alice Perkins 4 3 6 part-time, non-board position of President.
On that date Rmy Sautter 3 7 David Lowden became Chief Executive, taking over from 4 Sharon Studer 4 7 Mike Kirkham, who stepped down from the board at the Notes 2006 AGM and retired in October 2006.
Pedro Ros was 1 Ceased to be a director 10 May 2006 appointed as an executive director on 16 January 2006.
2 Appointed 12 January 2006 and to remuneration committee in August 2006 Biographical details of current board directors are shown on 3 Appointed 16 January 2006 pages 34 and 35.
4 Ceased to be a director 31 December 2006 In 2006, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors indicates not a member of that committee without the executive directors present, to consider their views.
They constructively challenged and helped develop proposals on strategy at board meetings.
Corporate governance TNS annual report 2006 39 Independent non-executive directors Retirement by rotation The Code requires that there should be a balance of executive In accordance with the companys articles of association, and non-executive directors so that no individual or small executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves group can dominate decision making.
Throughout the period for re-election every three years and non-executive directors of this report, the company complied with the Code every two years.
Following performance evaluations, those requirement that at least half of the board is comprised of directors proposed for re-election this year continue to independent directors as defined in the Code.
perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Information and professional development Insurance It is a principle of the Code that information of appropriate Further information regarding the Directors and Officers quality is supplied to the board in a timely manner and that Liability Insurance maintained by the company can be found there are induction programmes on joining the board and on page 38 of the Directors report.
The group has a Board committees comprehensive induction process for newly appointed The board has three committees to assist in fulfilling its directors to meet key personnel and, on request, major duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and shareholders.
Donald Brydon underwent a thorough induction a remuneration committee.
Terms of reference for each of programme in 2006.
Recently appointed directors have these committees were reviewed during the year, although continued to hold separate meetings with key personnel no amendments were considered necessary by the board.
They are posted on the groups website and hard copies are Presentations were received by the board on key areas of available on request from the Company Secretary & Group the business and a site visit was made to Madrid.
year, some directors attended tailored training programmes, specific to their individual needs, such programmes being Audit committee available to all board members.
The board is also regularly During the year the audit committee consisted of three briefed on matters affecting the groups activities, such as independent non-executive directors, at least one of significant industry developments, as well as changes to the whom had recent and relevant financial experience.
legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates.
The committee continues to be chaired by Paul Murray, Reporting is designed to ensure that management submits who has the requisite experience in accounting and to board members all information relevant to board decisions, financial management.
Its primary responsibilities include several days in advance of each board meeting.
monitoring internal control and risk management systems.
The committee is also responsible for approving the groups There is an agreed procedure whereby all board members accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual may obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance financial statements before their submission to the board, of their duties.
Such advice was not sought by any director and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit, as during 2006.
All directors have access to the services of the well as the nature and extent of non-audit services provided Company Secretary & Group General Counsel.
The committee has discharged these responsibilities throughout the year and held four meetings.
Performance evaluation The Code requires the board to undertake an annual The committee reviewed internal business and internal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees control reports, together with external audit reports.
Annual board and committee The external auditor,  LLP, attended evaluations were carried out during 2006 and the board all audit committee meetings and met separately with the evaluation is continuing.
The directors evaluations took the committees chairman.
The results were collated, analysed The committee has adopted a formal policy for the supply of and fed back to board members.
non-audit services provided by its external auditors.
Its aim is The results are being reviewed by board members, following to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors which a short set of action plans to improve board is not compromised whilst, at the same time, allowing the performance will be agreed for the coming year.
company to benefit from their expertise where it is needed.
A summary of the fees for non-audit work, which includes assurance, tax advisory and tax compliance work, during 2006 is given in note 3 to the financial statements on page 59.
The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent powers of investigation.
40 TNS annual report 2006 Corporate governance Nomination committee The group has an internal audit department which reviews The role of the nomination committee is to review regularly financial, operational and compliance controls in a number of the composition of the board, to consider succession planning key business areas each year.
Recommendations are reported and to lead the process of identifying and recommending to senior management and, ultimately, to the audit committee candidates to fill board vacancies to the board, for its and board.
In 2006, the internal audit department performed approval.
During the year the nomination committee consisted audits at 14 of the groups subsidiary companies and of the Chairman and two further independent non-executive reviewed the progress made in implementing previous directors, as well as the Chief Executive by invitation.
Monitoring the Sautter chaired the committee throughout 2006 and until 28 implementation of recommendations previously made is February 2007, from which date Donald Brydon took the chair.
considered important: consequently the status of all recommendations is updated quarterly and reviewed by the Under the board appointment process, the nomination executive management team.
Updates are provided at each committee agrees a job specification that takes account of audit committee meeting.
an analysis of the skills, knowledge and experience of existing board members.
Specialised external consultancies are asked By these mechanisms, the board has conducted a review of to tender for the business.
The chosen consultancy provides a the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls for list of potential candidates, from which the committee agrees the year ended 31 December 2006.
The groups system of a short list.
Interviews are held by members of the committee internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, and the successful candidate is recommended for board the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only approval.
This process was followed for the appointment of provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against the Chairman in January 2006 following the preparation of a material misstatement or loss.
job specification, including an assessment of the time In 2006, the key business, financial, operational and commitment expected and his other directorships.
compliance risks facing the group were reviewed and prioritised.
The procedures in place to detect risks were Remuneration committee addressed and the results were reported to the board.
These The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration procedures have been in place for the financial year covered committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the by this report and up to the date the annual report and principles of the Code in setting directors remuneration, are accounts were approved.
The procedures comply with the included in the remuneration report on pages 43 to 48.
Internal Control Guidance for directors in the Code.
The Financial controls and reporting updated Turnbull Guidance, issued in October 2005 for The group operates a system for financial reporting to the financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2006, has been board, based on an annual budget and regular forecasts.
followed in complying with the Internal Controls requirements Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and of the Code.
the operational management team identifies any new business Code of conduct matters, or key risks facing the operating units and recent The company has in place a code of conduct that is acquisitions in its reports.
The board also receives regular publicised throughout the organisation.
The code provides reports on treasury matters, tax, human resources and legal guidance and assistance on how employees should conduct matters affecting the group.
The board approves budgetary business throughout the group, including how to manage expenditure in line with the groups corporate strategy.
relationships with the companys stakeholders.
An ethics helpInternal control line allows employees to report suspected breaches of the The Code requires the company to maintain a sound system code of conduct to the Head of the Business Review and of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and Internal Audit function, who reports directly to the audit the companys assets.
The companys internal control is based committee.
During the year, all enquiries to the help-line were on assessment of risk and a framework of control procedures independently investigated and where appropriate reported to to manage risks and to monitor compliance with procedures.
The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an Investor relations appropriate system of internal controls.
Day-to-day The group has in place a structured programme of management of those controls is delegated to senior communication with institutional investors and financial management of the relevant operating units.
Executive directors, the Head of Investor Relations operations perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the and the Investor Relations Manager meet regularly with internal controls in place in their business, through an internal existing and prospective institutional investors and financial control questionnaire and report their findings to the group.
analysts in the UK, Continental Europe and North America.
Corporate governance TNS annual report 2006 41 section 401 k plans and now uses a single independent The purpose of these meetings is to provide background provider, Fidelity Management Trust Company.
TNS CMR LLC information regarding the group and to improve understanding also maintains a Union Pension Plan, the assets of which are of the companys business and strategy, within the constraints held under trust by Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N. A, imposed to ensure that inside information is not selectively together with defined benefit plans sponsored by TNS CMR.
TNS also maintains a defined benefit plan, the former NFO The group is conscious of the need to communicate WorldGroup, Inc. Pension Plan, the assets of which are held information to shareholders and potential shareholders in such under trust by KeyBank.
That pension plan is now closed to a way as to avoid the creation or continuance of a false new participants.
Details of pension commitments are given in market in its shares.
In accordance with the requirements of note 23 to the financial statements on pages 76 to 79. the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, inside information is released to both institutional and private Annual general meeting AGM shareholders at the same time.
Group results are announced The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to twice a year and, in addition, trading updates are issued to the meet with, and question, the directors.
The notice of the market in January and July of each year.
Results and AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least operational presentations made to investors and analysts are 20 working days before the meeting, as was the case for webcast live on the groups website, www.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review during the meeting, recorded in the In 2006, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director minutes of the meeting and released to the market.
It is communicated with the companys brokers, to keep abreast of confirmed that the Chairman, the executive directors and the institutional shareholders attitudes to the company and chairs of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees consulted with major shareholders on governance issues.
all attended the 2006 AGM and were available to answer All non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to questions from shareholders.
attend meetings with major shareholders.
All directors are also kept informed of shareholders views via investor By order of the board relations board reports, which report on feedback from investors and financial analysts.
Paul Wright Company Secretary & Group General Counsel The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to 5 March 2007 meet with and question the directors.
Further information regarding the meeting is provided below.
During 2006, 17 Regulatory News Service announcements were released informing the market of acquisitions, financial results, the results of general meetings, the decision to undertake the market purchase programme, and board changes.
These announcements, together with current and back issues of annual and interim reports, investor presentation webcasts, other regulatory announcements and other items of interest to shareholders, are available on the groups website.
Pension funds The group operates a number of pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for its employees throughout the world.
The plans consist of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans.
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the groups employees are held separately from those of the group.
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee representatives and group executives, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995.
In the Netherlands, the funds are held by Stitching NIPO Pension funds.
In the US, the group has consolidated its 42 TNS annual report 2006 Corporate governance
