Corporate Governance Statement The company is committed to the principles of corporate Board and committee balance, independence and governance contained in the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on effectiveness Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules It is the companys policy that appointments to the Board are of the Financial Services Authority the Code and for which made on merit and through a formal, rigorous and transparent the Board is accountable to shareholders.
process against objective criteria recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The committee guides the whole Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the company Board and to senior management.
The work of all Board has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in committees is described later in this Statement.
There is a clearly established division of responsibilities Statement about applying the Principles of Good between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in Governance writing, agreed by the Board, implemented by regular review In complying with the Code, the company has applied the Main meetings between these ofcers and validated by the Board and Supporting Principles of Good Governance of the Code.
Further explanation of how these Principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with directors The Chairman is also Chairman of IMI plc, a FTSE 250 company.
remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The The Board is satisfied that none of the other commitments of Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review seek the Chairman or other Board members detract from the extent to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the or quality of time which they are able to devote to the company.
The appointment of all non-executive directors is for a specified The Board and its committees term and re-appointment is not automatic.
During the three At the date of this report the Board consists of seven directors years up to and including the 2007 Annual General Meeting, whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on every director will have sought re-election at least once.
Two of the directors are executive and five Board has reviewed and re-afrmed that it considers all of the are non-executive.
The Board discharges its responsibilities non-executive directors, including the Chairman, to be by providing strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the independent in character and judgement.
Whenever any company, within a framework of prudent and effective controls, director considers that he is or may be interested in any which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the contract or arrangement to which the company is or may be a companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial party, he gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the and human resources are in place for the company to meet its Articles of Association.
The Board has determined that any such objectives and reviews management performance.
It also interests as may have arisen during the year are not material to defines the companys values and standards and ensures that the director or to the companies concerned.
its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience for the requirements of the business.
The Board and The following documents have been published on the its committees operate within a framework of scheduled core companys website and outline the way the Board and its meetings and additional ad hoc meetings are held as required.
committees operate, which the Board reviews at least annually: Schedule of matters specically reserved for the decision In addition to formal meetings, the directors also participate in of the Board: an annual strategic planning away day at which strategic and Board policies covering operational matters, compliance financial plans are reviewed and developed.
All directors visit and stakeholder policies: the companys operations on a regular basis, engaging with Terms of Reference of the Nomination, Audit and employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an Remuneration Committees, which outline their objectives understanding of the business.
and responsibilities and which define a programme of activities to support the discharge of those responsibilities.
The members of the Board and its committees, together with their attendances at the core meetings during 2006 are shown The Board has also adopted a framework of delegated on the following page.
The Company Secretary is also secretary commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope to the Boards committees.
and powers of the Chief Executive and of operating management.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors may take independent professional advice at the companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 33 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings held in the year 8 4 4 5 Norman Askew 8 4 4 5 Chairman Chairman Mike Davies 8 4 4 5 Senior Independent Director Andrew Dougal 8 4 4 5 Chairman Katherine Innes Ker 8 4 4 5 Chairman Vernon Sankey 7 4 4 5 Iain Napier 8 4 4 3 Chief Executive Peter Johnson 8 - 4 - Finance Director Graeme McCallum 8 - 4 - Operations Director By invitation Information and professional development companys risk management processes and that there had The company has procedures whereby directors including been further improvement in the quality of business reporting.
non-executive directors receive formal induction, training and Through the evaluation, the Board has set specic objectives for continuing familiarisation about the companys business, 2007 and has re-intensied its focus on succession planning operations and systems, the principles underlying the discharge and further developing the interface with management.
of their duties as directors and wider issues relating to the housing and construction sector.
Training needs are identied The Risk Management and Audit RMA function: and implemented.
An evaluation of the internal RMA function was carried out through consultation with the members of the Audit Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees Committee, the external auditors and the head of function.
In and other functions addition, management provided feedback.
The evaluation, which In November and December 2006 the directors carried out the was reviewed by the Audit Committee in January 2007, judged fourth annual evaluation of the performance and effectiveness the effectiveness of the performance of the function to be very of the Board and its committees, of individual directors and of strong, demonstrably independent and well-managed.
The the internal and external auditors.
The evaluations were Audit Committee assessed the function to be excellent.
performed using the following framework: The external auditors: The Board, its members and its committees: An evaluation of the external auditors was carried out through The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board and its committees consultation with Board and Audit Committee members and focused on a number of areas, including those concerned with with senior management.
The evaluation, which was reviewed best practice based on the principles of the Combined Code by the Audit Committee in November 2006, found the and good governance principles.
The evaluation particularly performance of the external auditors to be very satisfactory.
addressed commercial and operational effectiveness and the interaction between the Board, the executive team and the Board committees and their work business.
The evaluation was carried out by the Company Remuneration Committee and remuneration Secretary through structured, scored interviews with each The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration director, also taking soundings from the other members of the for directors and senior executives and the activities of the Executive Committee.
Additionally, the non-executive directors, Remuneration Committee are described in the Directors led by the senior independent director, met without the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 45.
Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman also held meetings with the non-executive Nomination Committee directors without the executives present.
The members of the Nomination Committee and their attendance at meetings during 2006 are shown on page 34.
The Nomination The directors reviewed the findings of the Board and committee Committee focused its main efforts during the year on succession assessments in January 2007 and concurred with the planning for the Board and senior management and, utilising conclusions that Board members demonstrate commitment executive search consultants, the recruitment of the Group Chief and give sound guidance and direction to the business and that Executive and the President of the North American operation.
In the Board committees operate effectively.
The evaluation found addition the committee reviewed the balance of the Boards that the quality of the Boards processes is high, that there had composition.
been continuing improvement in the Boards scrutiny of the 34 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit Committee and auditors The Group has a number of other committees which The members of the Audit Committee are shown on page 34. co-ordinate activities in areas such as risk management, All members are independent non-executive directors.
The Corporate Social Responsibility improvement including health, Board has determined that Andrew Dougal, the committee safety and environmental matters, information technology Chairman, who is a member of the Institute of Chartered developments and other key activities.
Accountants of Scotland, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman of the company, the Chief Executive, Internal control Finance Director, Head of RMA, Group Financial Controller, The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing Katherine Innes Ker, representatives of the external auditors, a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing and senior executives of major Group companies attend the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly meetings of the committee by invitation.
reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in The committees remit includes reviewing the internal control accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for directors on the framework, the internal audit process, the financial reporting Code published in July 2003.
The Board is responsible for the practices and the external audit process.
It ensures that the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its Board regularly assesses business risks, and their management effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than and mitigation.
In doing so, the committee places reliance on eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and regular reports from the Executive Risk Committee whose can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against activities are described below.
In monitoring the financial material mis-statement or loss.
reporting practices the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas of judgement, the going concern assumption In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board and compliance with accounting standards and the regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of requirements of the Code.
The committee also reviewed, prior internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, to publication, the interim and annual financial statements and including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk other major statements affecting the Group concerning pricemanagement.
This process is based principally on reviewing sensitive information.
reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether Appointment of the auditors for non-audit services any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate The Audit Committee has approved a policy on employing the a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also auditors to provide services other than audit services, which performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this Report is to require a competitive tender except in narrowly-dened and Accounts.
This assessment considers all significant aspects circumstances where the company considers that for of internal control arising during the period covered by the condentiality, past knowledge or other reasons, there is an report including the work of RMA.
The Audit Committee assists advantage in using a single tender procurement procedure.
the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Key The committee has determined that the following assignments elements of the system of internal control are detailed below.
should not be undertaken by the auditors: the provision of internal audit services: A Group-level review is carried out by the members of the advice on large IT systems.
Executive Committee to identify the major risks facing the Group and to develop and implement appropriate initiatives The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the to manage those risks.
This process applies across the Group.
maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
Key operational and financial risks are identied and assessed at the operating process level, while strategic risks are identied Other Group committees as a part of the business planning process.
Strategic risk Executive Committee reviews are carried out in each of the operating divisions to The Executive Committee consists of all the executive directors identify business risk, evaluate existing controls and develop of the company, senior executives of major Group companies strategies to manage the risks that remain, the results of which and senior function heads.
The Chief Executive chairs its form part of the Boards assessment.
Updates to these risk meetings.
The committee meets monthly and directs, controls assessments are reported to the Executive Committee.
and reviews the financial and operational performance of all Group companies and divisions, and key issues relating to An Executive Risk Committee, chaired by the Finance Director, human resources, communications and legal matters.
It defines reports to the Executive Committee.
This committee, which and recommends to the Board forward-looking business plans has formally agreed terms of reference, oversees the risk and and budgets.
Within the delegated authorities framework, the control framework of the Group and monitors the response fortnightly investment sub-committee meetings review all to key risk issues identied through the assessment process.
major investment proposals affecting the Groups business.
The committee meets monthly and its findings are reviewed by the Audit Committee as part of an overall process whereby assurance is obtained about the integrity of the risk management and internal control process.
During 2006 the committee assessed the risk management and the internal control framework of the Taylor Woodrow Group, reviewed business change issues and RMA activities and received presentations from process owners covering 27 areas of the business.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 35 Corporate Governance Statement continued Management Throughout the year the Board continually considers the The Chief Executive has responsibility for preparing and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
On 15 reviewing a three-year corporate plan and the annual budgets.
February 2007 it completed the annual assessment for the year These are subject to formal approval by the Board.
Budgets are to 31 December 2006 by reviewing evidence from the Audit re-examined in comparison with business forecasts throughout Committee, operating divisions, RMA, and by taking account the year to ensure they are sufciently robust to reect the of events since the year-end.
possible impact of changing economic circumstances.
The Chief Executive and the Board conduct regular and systematic The annual employee performance appraisal process is reviews of actual results and future projections with comparison objective-based, with individual objectives cascaded down from against budget and prior year, together with various treasury the appropriate business objectives.
Disputes that may give rise to significant litigation or identify training needs to support achievement of objectives.
contractual claims are monitored monthly.
Whistleblowing The Chief Executive conducts quarterly business performance The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported in the UK by reviews, at which an assessment is made of the progress an  procedure Safecall through which against objectives, changes to operational risk and adequacy employees of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns of control.
The Group has clearly-dened policies, processes about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other and procedures governing all areas of the business, which are matters.
Safecall is widely publicised within the company.
accessible using a web-enabled intranet tool, which also During 2006, 22 calls were made to Safecall, covering issues facilitates continuous improvement.
An owner is identied for including allegations of inappropriate personal behaviours in each process, responsible for risk assessment and process the workplace and other operational matters.
Operational compliance responsibilities are also investigated by the Head of RMA and the closure and assigned to individual managers.
For each process, key outcomes reported to the Audit Committee.
operational controls have been identied and these are subject to self-assessment.
Dened authority limits are in place.
In Relations with shareholders particular, any investment in land, property and other significant The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with assets, including acquisitions and disposals, require detailed major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and has appraisals and are subject to dened authorisation levels and put in place arrangements designed to facilitate contact about post-investment review procedures.
Investment decisions, business, governance, remuneration and other issues.
This including Private Finance Initiative PFI projects, and tenders provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, the for contracts are subject to approval by the Board, the Chief Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive, Executive or subsidiary operating management, depending Finance Director and other executives in order to establish a on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
The company also operates a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and a announcements and publications covering the full year and framework of delegated authority approved by the Board within interim results.
There are associated briengs for stockbroking which individual responsibilities of senior executives of Group analysts and investors, the presentation material for which is companies are identied and can be monitored.
The RMA published on the companys website www.
function oversees a programme of Controls Self Assessments across the UK Development, Construction and North American All directors receive formal reports and briengs during the year businesses.
These activities are reinforced through process about the companys investor relations programme and receive compliance and other audits conducted by RMA.
detailed feedback through surveys, direct contact and other means, through which they are able to develop an understanding The RMA function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency of of the views of major shareholders about the company.
the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets, to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks and to monitor The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the the activities of the Group in accomplishing established Annual General Meeting.
Information about the company objectives.
Regular reports from these reviews are provided to and the Group, including full year and interim results and other the Board and reported to the Chief Executive, Audit Committee major announcements, is published on the companys website and management, who consider them on a regular basis.
Head of the RMA function has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman and the Chief Going concern Executive.
A database of audit recommendations and After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement improvement initiatives is maintained.
A monthly follow up at the time of approving the financial statements, that there routine ensures that such improvements are implemented in is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the company a timely manner.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
36 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006
