12 telent Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to UK companies listed with the United Kingdom Listing Authority is the July 2003 FRC Combined Code the Combined Code.
The Board The Company is controlled through the Board of directors which currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and five non-executive directors who, with their different backgrounds, bring with them a wide range of expertise and experience to the Company.
The Board considers all five of the non-executive directors to be independent in relation to the criteria set out in the Combined Code.
There are no cross-directorships or interlocks between any of the directors arising from their directorships of other companies.
The names and biographical details of the directors, together with the membership of the principal Board committees are set out on pages 10 and 11.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer with no single individual having unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and ensures that all directors receive sufficient, accurate, clear and relevant information on financial, business and corporate matters, in a timely manner, to enable them to participate effectively in Board decisions.
The Chairmans other significant business commitments are his non-executive chairmanships of BizzEnergy Group Limited, Ergo Finance LLP, TERSUS Energy plc and NATS Holdings Limited.
The Chief Executive Officers primary role is the effective management and proper control of the Companys businesses with the objective of achieving the delivery of the strategic and financial objectives approved by the Board from time to time.
Mr M K Atkinson was designated the senior independent director throughout the year and continues to fulfil this role.
In this capacity, he is available to shareholders should they have concerns that they are unable to resolve through the normal channels of contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
He is also responsible for leading the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board ordinarily meets at least 10 times a year but holds additional meetings when circumstances require.
Between meetings, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary update the non-executive directors on current matters.
In addition, the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, and the Senior Independent Director holds meetings with the non-executive directors, without the Chairman present.
13 telent Annual Report 2006 The Board does not have a formal policy limiting the number of other To fulfil its responsibility for ensuring auditor objectivity and boards that directors may serve on but evaluates this on a case-by-case independence, the committee receives regular reports from the basis.
No executive director served on any other boards during the year Companys external auditors in relation to any non-audit services under review.
provided, proposed or contemplated and is required to pre-approve the provision of such services and take whatever actions or make The Board, which has reserved certain specific matters to itself, whatever recommendations it feels are appropriate to maintain the is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
The Audit policy, consideration of significant financial matters, review of the Committee has implemented procedures relating to the provision of financial performance and strategic direction of the operating businesses non-audit services by the Companys auditors.
These include 1 the and establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority.
maintenance of a schedule of certain non-audit services, including Directors receive appropriate training on appointment and as necessary consultancy, investment, banking and legal services, which the thereafter.
They attend an induction programme which aims to provide Company is specifically prohibited from obtaining from the audit firm, an understanding of the Company, its strategy, structure, geographical 2 requiring the selection of providers of permitted non-audit services spread of operations, financial position, the markets in which it to be subject to a tender process, where appropriate, and 3 requiring operates, its services, products and technologies, its people and, where non-audit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance by appropriate, their legal responsibilities as a director.
The directors have the Audit Committee.
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of is an approved procedure by which all directors can obtain independent both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 38 professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their to the accounts on page 69. duties, if required.
The committee is also responsible for the arrangements in relation Performance evaluation to the Companys Financial Code of Ethics and its Speak up policy, Previously the Company engaged the services of an external consultancy which provides a facility for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, to assist with Board performance evaluation, which was described in last about possible accounting irregularities, failures of internal controls years annual report.
Subsequently, an in-house performance evaluation or other similar matters.
The code and policy are published on the exercise has been undertaken, led by the Chairman: this took the form Companys website.
of a detailed questionnaire completed by each director in relation to the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual Nomination Committee directors.
Consideration of the objectives set for the Board and the This committee is chaired by Mr J F Devaney.
The committee evaluates training needs of the directors formed an integral part of the exercise.
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience represented on the As a result of this process, the Board confirmed its satisfaction with its Board and makes recommendations to the Board concerning any effectiveness and that of its committees and individual directors.
adjustments deemed to be necessary.
The Senior Independent Director conducted a performance evaluation Following a process, which involves the preparation of a job specification review in respect of the Chairman, which confirmed the non-executive and assessment of the capabilities required to fulfil it, briefing an directors satisfaction with the performance of the Chairman.
external executive search consultancy and interviewing any candidates that the committee feels are appropriate from those identified by the Board committees search consultancy, the committee makes recommendations to the Terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Board on all proposed new appointments of directors.
committees of the Board are published on the Companys website www.
com and are available on request from the Company In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all directors Secretary.
The principal committees and a description of their terms are subject to reappointment at the first annual general meeting of reference, are as follows: following their appointment and to reappointment thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Audit Committee The Board believes that Mr Atkinson, who chairs the committee, has the Remuneration Committee appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to do so.
All of the The Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration, members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
on pages 24 to 31, describes the membership and terms of reference The committee meets formally at least four times a year with the of the committee.
It also sets out the Companys remuneration Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attending policy, practice and details of the remuneration of individual directors.
Approval of this report will be sought at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The committees principal activities relate to 1 the engagement of external auditors and the monitoring of their effectiveness and independence, 2 considering the effectiveness of the internal audit function, 3 reviewing the Groups accounting and financial reporting procedures and systems of internal control, and 4 reviewing formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, including the interim and preliminary annual results announcements and the annual financial statements.
The Companys internal and external auditors attend committee meetings by invitation and have the opportunity to raise matters or concerns in the absence of executive directors.
14 telent Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance continued Attendance at meetings The Company aims to deal expeditiously with all enquiries from The following table indicates the number of Board meetings and individual shareholders.
Individual shareholders also have the meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees opportunity of attending annual general meetings, to put questions to held in the year to 31 March 2006 and attendance at those meetings.
the Chairman and the other directors.
Directors also meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
The Company keeps under review ways Board Audit Nomination Remuneration in which it can communicate more effectively with its shareholders Number held 20 4 2 6 throughout the year as well as at annual general meetings.
Number attended J F Devaney 20 N A 2 N A It is the Companys practice to send the notice of the Annual General M K Atkinson 18 4 2 5 Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days P S Binning 20 N A N A N A before the meeting and to propose separate resolutions on each K R Flaherty 18 N A 1 4 substantially separate issue.
Votes are taken by poll at annual general P C F Hickson 18 4 1 6 meetings and the results, including any votes withheld, are published as W K Koepf 19 4 2 5 soon as possible after the conclusion of those meetings.
D F McWilliams 19 3 1 4 Financial reporting M W J Parton 20 N A N A N A The Board has included a detailed review of the performance and The Chairman and the chairmen of the principal committees were financial position of the Groups businesses on pages 16 to 23.
In making available and chaired all of the relevant meetings.
the Business and Financial Review available alongside the directors report and the accounts, the Board seeks to present a balanced and All directors in office at the commencement of the annual general understandable assessment of the Companys position and progress.
meeting held on 28 November 2005 were in attendance for Furthermore, the Company has published interim and preliminary the meeting.
annual results announcements, which provided details of the Companys Relations with shareholders financial performance.
The Company gives a high priority to communication with shareholders.
The announcement of interim and final results provide opportunities for Internal control the Company to answer questions from institutional investors covering The Board has established procedures that enable the Group to comply a broad range of issues.
In addition, there is regular dialogue with with the guidance on internal controls issued by the Turnbull Committee institutional investors to ensure a mutual understanding of objectives.
and that included in the Combined Code.
Responsibility The Companys website www.
com provides access for all The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of shareholders to information about the Company including the annual internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of report, details of recent announcements, investor presentations and internal control can only manage and not eliminate the risk of failing share price information.
Shareholders are able to put questions to the to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and Company through its website.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer maintain a regular dialogue with the Companys major institutional investors and Risk and the control structure brief the other members of the Board on the views expressed by those A framework for managing risk exists within the Group and the Board investors.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available oversees an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing to institutional investors to discuss corporate governance matters, the significant risks faced by the Group.
These risks include strategic, as and when required, and the Chairman invites major institutional operational, commercial and financial matters.
investors, should they wish, to meet with newly appointed Terms of reference clearly define responsibilities of the Board and the non-executive directors.
Audit Committee and written policies establish levels of delegated authority throughout the Groups businesses.
A formal business risk management process, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, has been followed during the year and up to the date of this report.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Audit Committee established an internal audit plan based on the business risk management process.
The risk process identifies, evaluates and manages significant risks faced by the Group.
Risks are identified through a bottom up process whereby each management unit maps the risks they face, evaluates the likelihood of the risks occurring and the impact if they do occur.
The executive directors and certain senior executives have assessed and prioritised the management unit risks, identified potential Group risks and developed action plans to mitigate these risks to a desired level.
Progress is reviewed quarterly against these plans.
The internal audit plan for the current financial year is being reviewed at present, in light of the new shape and structure of the Group.
15 telent Annual Report 2006 Developments in control processes The executive directors and certain senior executives also review and Following the disposal of businesses to Ericsson, all control processes approve the information disclosed in the Groups interim and preliminary were reviewed and adapted to better serve the new size and shape of annual results statements.
the telent Group, with particular focus on controls within the overseas The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness territories.
The transaction with Ericsson involved the sale of assets in of the system of internal control and carried out the following during the majority of the countries in which Marconi operated.
telent has the year: retained most of the legal entities in these countries but has not retained staff in all regions.
These overseas legal entities no longer trade a review of the external audit plan, scope and materiality of audit and are subject to a rationalisation programme.
In order to oversee this work, key judgements, management representations, audit issues programme, manage legacy issues and maintain tight financial controls, and resolution and compliance with accounting policies: a team of Regional Liability Management Controllers has been a review of internal audit plans and linkage to the risk maps: appointed, reporting to the Chief Financial Officer.
New control processes have been established in conjunction with Group Head Office, consideration of management reports on financial results and key particularly with regards to delegated authority, cash management, judgements, external management letters and internal audit reports control of bank accounts and monthly financial reporting.
and recommendations on internal control systems and any significant weaknesses: and Control environment A comprehensive system exists for controlling the business and risks, a review of actions being taken to address control weaknesses in a ensuring adequate stewardship of assets, reporting accurate and timely timely manner.
financial information and maintaining proper accounting records.
Reports from the Groups external auditors are presented bi-annually to Financial results and key operating statistics are prepared and reported the Audit Committee prior to announcement of the Groups interim and in accordance with Group policies and procedures.
They discuss any internal control issues and financial prepared each month and actual results are compared with forecasts reporting matters.
and budgets and reviewed each month by the executive directors, Review of effectiveness certain senior executives and the Board.
The directors confirm that the Audit Committee has considered, within Upon formation of telent, a business plan was prepared by the the past 90 days, the adequacy of internal controls and that the Board management units, reviewed by the executive directors and certain has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls senior executives and approved by the Board.
described above, for the year ended 31 March 2006 and for the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Corporate reviews and approval procedures are in place to cover investments, disposals, strategy, capital expenditure, contract tenders, There were no significant changes in the design of the internal controls litigation, industrial relations, treasury management, insurance, subsequent to the most recent evaluation.
taxation, outsourcing, pensions and environmental issues.
The directors have also concluded that the disclosure controls and A Financial Code of Ethics exists for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief procedures are effective for the year under review and to the date of Financial Officer and senior finance team.
The code deals with honest the approval of the financial statements.
and ethical conduct, disclosure in reports and accounts and compliance with laws and regulations.
In addition, a wider code of conduct for all employees has also been adopted, which includes a Speak up policy that provides a means of communication to enable employees to raise concerns about the Groups financial conduct.
Monitoring of internal controls Clear processes exist for monitoring internal controls and reporting any significant control weaknesses and mitigation plans.
These are co-ordinated by the Audit Committee.
Business units and certain senior executives certify at least bi-annually to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, through a letter of assurance, compliance with internal policies and procedures, including balance sheet reviews and revenue recognition, ethics and fraud, local laws and regulations, delegated authorities, related party transactions, IT policy and reporting internal control weaknesses.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer consider the letters of assurance, interview those who have prepared them and monitor actions taken to address any significant issues.
Summaries of these certifications are presented to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews disclosures arising from this process proposed for inclusion in the Groups interim and preliminary annual results statements.
