Corporate governance Directors report on corporate governance All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Tesco PLC is committed to the highest standards of corporate Companys expense in conducting their duties.
We recognise that good governance helps the provided insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and business to deliver our strategy, generate shareholder value and officers this year.
We believe that the revised Combined Code provides a useful guide from which to review New Directors receive a personalised induction programme corporate governance within the Group.
This statement designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of describes the Boards approach to corporate governance.
On appointment the Director will liaise with the Company Secretary and Chairman to ensure the programme Board composition and independence is appropriately tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus.
It usually includes an overview of the As at 25 February 2006, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised business model, Board processes, one-to-one meetings with six Executive Directors, seven independent Non-executive the Executive team and briefings with senior managers, an Directors and Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman.
introduction to Board Committees that the new appointee will Mr R F Chase is Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent serve on, a briefing on social, ethical and environmental SEE Non-executive Director.
Ms C McCall joined the Board issues for the business, and site visits at home and abroad.
The during the financial year ended 25 February 2006 and her need for Director training is regularly assessed by the Board.
appointment was approved by shareholders at the AGM in June 2005.
Board processes Both Mr C L Allen and Dr H Einsmann have served on the The Board governs through clearly identified Board Board for more than two three-year terms.
The Chairman Committees to which we delegate powers.
These are the conducted a rigorous review with each Director to assess their Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration independence and contributions to the Board and confirmed Committee and Nominations Committee.
They are properly that they both continue to be effective independent Nonauthorised under the constitution of the Company to take executive Directors.
Mr C L Allen brings experience as a decisions and act on behalf of the Board within the guidelines CEO with knowledge of the media industry and the recent and delegations laid down by the Board.
The Board is kept Remuneration Committee review confirmed the quality of fully informed of the work of these Committees.
Any issues his leadership as Chairman.
Through his wealth of business requiring resolution will be referred to the full Board.
experience, Dr H Einsmann contributes a different A summary of the operations of these Committees is set out dimension to the Board and he also provides coaching below.
The three statutory Committees Audit, Remuneration for directors overseas.
and Nominations are underpinned by their Non-executive The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board.
Director membership providing independent insight to utive, Sir Terry Leahy, has executive responsibilities The Chief Exec governance.
Copies of each of the Committees Terms for the operations, results and strategic development of the of Reference are available on the website Group.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist www.
com corporate or at the AGM.
and operate effectively for these positions.
Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility The Board requires all Non-executive Directors to be for determining and implementing the strategic plan and for independent in their judgement.
The structure of the Board management of the Group to the Executive Committee.
This and the integrity of the individual Directors ensure that no one Committee meets formally every week and its decisions are individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
communicated throughout the Group on a regular basis.
The Biographies for the Board Directors can be found on Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and pages 40-41 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial comprises the Executive Directors and Ms L Neville-Rolfe, the Statement 2006.
It has authority for decision making in all areas except those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved Board responsibilities for Board Decision.
The Executive Committee is responsible for The Board meets eight times a year and annually devotes two implementing Group strategy and policy, for monitoring the days to a conference with senior executives on performance performance of the business and reporting on these matters and longer-term planning, giving consideration both to the in full to the Board.
opportunities and risks of future strategy.
The Board has set The Executive Committee has also set up further operational out clearly the Schedule of Matters Reserved for Board Decision groups or boards aimed at seeing through the key elements in order to ensure overall control of the Groups affairs.
These of the strategic plan and managing the UK and International include the approval of financial statements, major acquisitions operations, joint ventures, property acquisitions, finance, and disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury policies, funding and people management.
These groups are heavily risk management, Group governance policies and succession populated with Executive Directors and senior management plans for senior executives.
20 Tesco plc Nominations Committee In the light of assessment of Board Mr K J Hydon, who has recent and relevant financial capability, the Nominations Committee leads the process for experience, chairs the Committee.
The other Committee Board appointments, re-election and succession of Directors members for the full financial year were Mr R F Chase and and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by Mr D E Reid Mr E M Davies.
Mrs K R Cook resigned from the Audit and its members during the year were Mr C L Allen, Committee to join the Remuneration Committee and was Mr R F Chase, Mrs K R Cook, Mr E M Davies, Dr H Einsmann, replaced by Ms C McCall in September 2005.
The Committee Mr K J Hydon and Sir Terry Leahy.
Where matters discussed consists entirely of independent Non-executive Directors.
relate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, Director chairs the meeting.
The Nominations Committee met the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Head of once in the year ended 25 February 2006 to discuss the Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditors ongoing shape and capability of the Board.
Following Graham normally attend meetings.
The Committee meets privately Pimlotts retirement some minor changes were made to with the external auditors at least once a year.
Mrs K R Cook resigned from the Audit The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed Committee to join the Remuneration Committee and Ms C M annually and represent current best practice.
This year the McCall joined the Audit Committee.
The most recent additions Committee met four times.
To facilitate the members to the Board have made good progress with their induction understanding of the Groups international affairs, a special programmes and the other Non-executive Directors continue to meeting was held in Asia in 2005.
The need for training is kept invest time in developing their understanding of the business.
under review and is formally considered by the Committee annually.
In 2005, the Committee set aside a full day to up-skill All Directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least the whole Board on topics such as changing regulation, every three years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
New Directors will be corporate governance, fraud and auditor ethical standards.
Training is also provided to meet specific individual needs.
submitted for election by shareholders in their first year.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees Board performance evaluation The Board regularly reviews role is to determine and recommend to the Board the its own performance.
In 2005 the Chairman led a thorough remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
It monitors the independent review of the performance of the Board and its level and structure of remuneration for senior management key Committees.
The review concluded that the Board is highly and seeks to ensure that the levels and structure of effective and that there had been significant improvements in remuneration is designed to attract, retain and motivate the the Boards culture, dynamics and administrative processes Executive Directors needed to run the Company.
Mr C L Allen during the year.
Good progress has been made in implementing chairs the Committee, which is composed entirely of the recommendations of this review and the Board agreed to independent Non-executive Directors.
Committee members conduct an in-house review for the year ended 25 February for the full year were Mr R F Chase, Mr E M Davies and 2006.
The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, met Dr H Einsmann.
Mrs K R Cook joined the Committee in with each of the Directors individually.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration found this to be an open, constructive and useful process and Committee and an explanation of how it applies the Directors the review found the Board to be highly effective.
remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set out The Chief Executive reviews the performance of each in the Directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 38.
The Chairman reviews the performance of Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary the Chief Executive and each Non-executive Director.
During responsibilities are to review the financial statements, to the year, the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors review the internal control systems including risk management, without the Executive Directors present to discuss Board to review the programme of Internal Audit, to consider the issues and how to build the best possible team.
The Senior appointment of the external auditors and their independence Independent Non-executive Director, Mr R F Chase, met with and to review the Committees own effectiveness.
The annual the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, schedule also includes a review of Protector Line, the to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
The Board scheduled eight meetings in the year ended 25 February 2006 and ad hoc meetings were convened to deal with urgent matters.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and of members at the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees during the year.
Tesco plc 21 Corporate governance continued Board Nominations Remuneration Audit Members attendance during the year ended 25 February 2006 meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 815 4 Non-executive Directors Mr D E Reid Chairman 8 1 N A N A Mr C L Allen 715 N A Mr R F Chase Senior Independent 8 1 5 4 1 Mrs K R Cook 812 Mr E M Davies 815 3 Dr H Einsmann 814 N A Mr K J Hydon 81 N A 4 2 Ms C McCall 71 N A 1 Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy 8 1 N A N A Mr R Brasher 8N AN AN A Mr P A Clarke 8 N A N A N A Mr A T Higginson 8 N A N A N A Mr T J R Mason 8 N A N A N A Mr D T Potts 8 N A N A N A Notes: N A indicates the Director is not a member of the Committee.
Directors leave the meeting where matters relating to them are being discussed.
It is expected that all Directors attend Board and Committee meetings unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments and all Directors attend the AGM.
1 Mrs K R Cook resigned from the Audit Committee in September 2005 and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in October 2005.
2 Ms C McCall joined the Audit Committee in September 2005.
Risk management and internal control We recognise that our people may face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business so we provide clear guidance based Accountabilities Accepting that risk is an inherent part of on the Tesco Values.
The Values set out the standards that we doing business, our risk management system is designed to wish to uphold in how we treat people.
These are supported both encourage entrepreneurial spirit whilst also providing by the Code of Ethics which offers guidance on relationships assurance that risk is understood and managed.
In terms of between the Group and its employees, suppliers and broad accountabilities, the Board has overall responsibility for contractors.
The Company is a signatory to the DTI Code of risk management and internal control within the context of Conduct and met its obligations for implementing the Code.
Executive management is responsible for defining and maintaining the necessary control We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known systems.
The role of Internal Audit is to monitor the overall within the Group as our Steering Wheel.
This unites the system and report on its effectiveness.
Groups resources around our customers, people, operations, communities and finance.
This enables the business to be Background The Group has a five-year rolling business plan operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard to support the delivery of the Companys strategy of long-term for all stakeholders.
growth in returns for shareholders.
Risk management The Board maintains a Key Risk Register Every business unit and support function derives its objectives which we review formally twice a year.
The register is populated from the five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers with risks identified through discussions principally between and staff by way of personal objectives.
Key to delivering the Head of Internal Audit and the Board of Directors although effective risk management is ensuring our people have a the views of senior management are also invited.
Collectively good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, the Board conduct an assessment of risk severity, considering procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a impact and likelihood and the adequacy of mitigating structured internal communications programme that provides measures taken by the business.
A balanced approach allows employees with a clear definition of the Groups purpose, goals the degree of controllability to be taken into account when we and accountabilities, and the scope of permitted activities for consider the effectiveness of mitigation, recognising that some each unit, line managers and individuals.
This ensures that all necessary activities carry inherent risk.
Our risk management our people understand what is expected of them and that process recognises that there are opportunities to improve decision-making takes place at the appropriate level.
the business to be built into our future plans.
Our key risks are set out on pages 13 to 16 of the Operating and financial review.
22 Tesco plc This process is cascaded through the Group with every Internal Audit The Internal Audit department is fully International CEO and local Board conducting and maintaining independent of business operations and has a Group-wide their own risk register and assessing their own control systems.
It operates a risk-based methodology, ensuring The same process also applies functionally in those parts of that the Groups key risks receive appropriate regular the Group requiring greater overview.
For example, its terms of examination.
Its responsibilities also include maintaining reference require the Audit Committee to oversee the Finance the Key Risk Register and facilitating risk management Risk Register.
A further example is that of the Corporate and internal control with the Board, Audit Committee Responsibility Risk Register which specifically considers social, and senior management throughout the Group.
Internal ethical and environmental SEE risks.
Oversight of these risks Audit facilitates oversight of risk and control systems of is the responsibility of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Group companies through a number of risk committees The Board incorporates SEE risks on the Key Risk Register established on either a geographic or business basis.
where they are considered material or appropriate.
The Head of Internal Audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
With reference to the ABI guidelines on social responsibility, we confirm that the Board takes regular account of the External Audit  LLP, the significance of SEE matters.
We recognise that certain Companys external auditors, contribute a further stakeholders take a keen interest in how companies independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal manage SEE matters and so we report more detail on our financial control system arising from their work, and report to both the Board and the Audit Committee.
policies and Key Performance Indicators KPIs in our Annual Corporate Responsibility Review and on our website The engagement and independence of external auditors www.
To provide further assurance, the is considered annually by the Audit Committee before they Corporate Responsibility KPIs are audited on a regular basis recommend their selection to the Board.
The Committee by Internal Audit.
has satisfied itself that  LLP are Internal controls Accountability for managing risk at an independent and there are adequate controls in place to operational level sits with management.
We have a Group-wide safeguard their objectivity.
Such measures include the process for establishing clearly the risks and responsibilities requirement to rotate audit partners every five years.
We assigned to each level of management and the expected have a non-audit services policy which sets out criteria for controls required to be operated and monitored.
employing external auditors and identifies areas where it is inappropriate for  LLP to work.
The CEOs of subsidiary businesses are required to certify by way of annual statements of assurance that the Boards Non-audit services work carried out by governance policies have been adopted in practice and in  LLP is predominantly transaction spirit.
For certain joint ventures, the Board places reliance upon work and corporate tax services.
 the systems of internal control operating within our partners LLP also follow their own ethical guidelines and continually infrastructure and the obligations upon partners Boards review their audit team to ensure their independence is not relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
Monitoring The Board oversees the monitoring system and Finance Committee Membership of the Finance has set specific responsibilities for itself and Board or Executive Committee includes Non-executive Directors with relevant Committees as set out below.
The Audit, Finance, Compliance financial expertise, Executive Directors and members of and Corporate Responsibility Committees reports are senior management.
The Committee usually meets twice a distributed to the Board and a formal discussion on each is year and its role is to review and agree the Finance plan on held at least once a year.
These all provide assurance that the an annual basis, to review reports of the Treasury function Group is operating legally, ethically and in accordance with and to review and approve Treasury limits and delegations.
approved financial and operational policies.
We continue Compliance Committee Membership of the Compliance to review how the Turnbull Guidance has been applied.
In Committee includes two Executive Directors, the Company addition, internal and external audit play key roles in the Secretary and members of senior management.
meets six times a year and its remit is to ensure that the Audit Committee Annually, the Audit Committee reports Group complies with all necessary laws and regulations in to the Board on its review of the effectiveness of the all of its operations world-wide.
The Committee has internal control systems for the accounting year and the established a schedule for the regular review of operational period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
activities and legal exposure and it formulates and Throughout the year the Committee also receives regular monitors the implementation of, and compliance with, reports from the internal and external auditors and has appropriate policies.
dialogue with senior managers on their control Every International business in the Group also has a local responsibilities.
Compliance Committee designed to ensure compliance It should be understood that such systems are designed with their local laws and regulations.
to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Tesco plc 23 Corporate governance continued Specialist functions such as the Corporate and Legal We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with Affairs department and the Trading Law and Technical shareholders through proactively organising meetings and department provide assurance and advice on legal presentations as well as responding to a wide range of compliance, health and safety, and SEE matters.
We seek shareholder views on a range of issues from functions report on their work on a regular basis and strategy to corporate governance and discuss SEE issues with escalate matters as appropriate.
the socially responsible investment community.
We recognise the importance of communicating appropriately any significant Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee Company developments.
This shareholder communication is is chaired by the Company Secretary and membership mainly co-ordinated by the Investor Relations department.
is made up of senior managers from across the business.
During the year, the Group met with 78 of its leading It meets at least four times a year to support, develop shareholders representing over 45% of the issued shares of and monitor policies on SEE issues, reviewing threats and the Company.
To complement this programme, the Chairman opportunities for the Group.
We have, this year, decided to meets with major shareholders independently from the monitor our corporate responsibility work and KPIs under Executive team.
Shareholders are also offered the opportunity a specific Community segment on our Steering Wheel.
to meet with the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board formally discussed the work of the Committee The Board is kept informed of the views of shareholders twice in the last year.
The Executive Committee regularly through regular updates.
Inevitably institutional shareholders may be in more regular Management In our fast moving business, trading is contact with the Group than others, but care is exercised to tracked on a daily and weekly basis, financial performance ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all is reviewed weekly and monthly, and the Steering Wheel is shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in reviewed quarterly.
All key businesses in the Group operate accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
a Steering Wheel and report against target KPIs on a quarterly basis enabling management to measure We regard the AGM as an excellent opportunity to performance.
communicate directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting and are available to answer questions All major initiatives require business cases, normally from shareholders present.
In order to encourage shareholder covering a minimum period of five years.
Post-investment participation, in line with the Myners recommendations, we appraisals, carried out by management, determine the offer electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST reasons for any significant variance from expected electronic proxy appointment service.
At our AGM last year, performance.
all resolutions were voted by way of electronic poll.
We will be using electronic polling again this year as it is a more efficient Relations with stakeholders and fairer process, ensuring that each vote represents the Listening and engaging helps us fully understand the issues number of shares held.
that are important to our stakeholders.
We learn from their Every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual Report experience, identify new risks and opportunities and ensure and Financial Statements or the Annual Review and Summary that our long-term strategy is sustainable.
We might not be Financial Statement.
At the half-year, all shareholders receive able to satisfy all stakeholder concerns all the time but through an Interim Report.
These reports, together with publicly-made engagement we can do our best to balance competing trading statements, are available on the Groups website, demands.
We know that customers need to be able to trust www.
com corporateinfo our business and they will only trust us if we do the right thing by all our stakeholders.
Our programme of engaging with Compliance stakeholders, including customers, staff, suppliers, investors, non-governmental organisations and others is set out in more The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all respects detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review and on our with the 2003 Revised Combined Code on Corporate website.
We carry out external research to help us understand Governance for the year ended 25 February 2006. how well we are communicating with these groups.
