Directors report Governance Internal control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system Business reviews of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To fulfil On a quarterly basis, Corporate Centre management performs this responsibility the Directors have established a Performance extensive reviews with each business.
These reviews consider Management Framework within which each of the Groups current and projected financial and operating results, and businesses operates.
Within this framework, the management address the progress of key strategic and operating initiatives, of each of the businesses considers strategic, operational, the risks affecting their achievement and the actions being taken commercial and financial risks and identifies risk mitigation by business unit management to manage the risks and achieve actions.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for their objectives.
the system of internal control, the Directors are aware that the Financial plans system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Each business prepares financial plans in accordance with failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable a defined format, which includes consideration of risks.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Management at the Corporate Centre reviews the financial During the period under review, the Directors were not aware plans with the business units and a summary is presented of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss to the Board for approval.
Balance sheet reviews The Performance Management Framework, which includes an Business unit and Corporate Centre financial management ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the conduct periodic, on-site reviews of underlying rationale and significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout the support for the significant line item components comprising financial year and up to the approval date of the Directors report the balance sheets for each business in the Group.
and the Groups consolidated financial statements prepared in Investment project authorisation accordance with IFRS.
Each business units management identifies All significant investment project expenditures are subject to and assesses the key business risks affecting the achievement of a formal investment project authorisation process, which takes its objectives.
Business unit management also identifies the risk into account, inter alia, operational, financial and technical risks.
management processes used to mitigate the key risks to an For significant investment projects a post-investment analysis is acceptable level and, where appropriate, additional actions completed to facilitate continuous improvement in the investment required to further manage and mitigate them.
The risk planning process, including risk identification and mitigation.
summaries developed out of this process are updated at least annually.
In addition, Corporate Centre management considers Reporting, analysis and forecasts those risks to the Groups strategic objectives that may not be All businesses are required to report monthly to the Corporate identified and managed at the business unit level.
Comparisons are made with plan, forecast and prior year and significant variances and changes in In connection with quarterly business reviews, relevant the business environment are explained.
Each business reassesses executives discuss risk management activities with Corporate its forecast for the financial year on a monthly basis.
The key risks and mitigation strategies each business prepares a forecast for the following 18 months are also discussed at least annually with the Audit Committee and reviews projections for the current and following year.
Financial strategy The risk management processes described above are applied The financial strategy includes assessment of the major financial to major decision-making processes such as acquisitions risks related to interest rate exposure, foreign currency exposure, as well as operational risks within the business including debt maturity and liquidity.
There is a comprehensive global environmental, health and safety.
insurance programme using the external insurance market and The other key elements of the Performance Management some limited use of an internal captive insurance company.
Group Framework, which constitutes the control environment, are: Treasury manages hedging activities, relating to financial risks, with external cover for net currency transaction exposures.
The Group Business strategy reviews Tax function manages tax compliance and tax risks associated with Each business is required to prepare a strategic position the Groups activities.
The Audit Committee oversees the financial assessment taking into account the current and likely future strategy as well as the tax strategy and considers the associated market environment and competitive position of the business risks and risk management techniques being used by the Group.
with specific consideration given to strategic risk.
The Corporate Centre management reviews the strategy with each business and the Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
Annual Report 2006 31 Directors report Governance Internal control continued Reporting certifications In connection with the preparation of the annual and quarterly financial statements, senior business general management and financial management sign a certificate which includes a declaration regarding the existence of internal controls, the proper recording of transactions and the identification and evaluation of significant business risks.
These certifications were expanded to encompass section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act in support of statements required to be made by Tomkins Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director.
See further discussion of Sarbanes-Oxley below.
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 of the Act requires certifications by management regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and requires the independent auditors to express an opinion on the Boards assertions regarding such internal controls.
Accordingly, the Group is in the process of completing a project to ensure Tomkins was in compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the Act by 30 December 2006 the effective date for the Group as a Foreign Private Issuer.
While the certification and external audit opinion on internal controls over financial reporting are reported in Tomkins annual filing on Form 20-F, the results of Tomkins compliance with the Act will serve to further strengthen the internal control framework for the Group.
The Group has an established internal audit function: the Vice President Risk and Assurance Services directs the activities of the internal auditors on a day-to-day basis and reports direct to the Audit Committee of the Board at least four times a year.
Due to the importance and significance of the effort required to achieve Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, during the last third of 2006, the Board directed substantially all internal audit resources towards supporting the Sarbanes-Oxley project described above.
Internal audits 2006 support primarily assisted management in testing the operating effectiveness of controls in higher risk areas and providing the Board with assurance over managements testing process in other risk areas.
The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 30 December 2006 has been reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
