Financial statements Company UK GAAP Financial statements of the Company prepared in accordance with UK GAAP Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the individual financial statements of Tomkins plc the Company.
The Directors have prepared the Companys financial statements under UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP, rather than International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Directors are required by law to ensure that the Companys financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for the financial year.
However, the Directors are permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to include the Companys profit and loss account in the financial statements.
In preparing the Companys financial statements, the Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures that must be disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the Companys financial statements comply with applicable law.
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for including in the Annual Report a report on Directors remuneration which complies with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the Companys financial statements confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial information contained on the corporate website, www.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Companys financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
