Corporate Governance Statement The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the company's shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the company and the company's compliance with the Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, and through to the date of approval of the financial statements, the Board considers that the company has complied with Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code with the sole compliance exception B.
2.1 relating to the composition of the Remuneration Committee of the Board, which in 2007 is composed of three independent non-executives but during 2006 was composed of two which the Board considered appropriate at the time.
The company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as set forth below and in the Remuneration Report below.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the directors remuneration report.
Composition and Operation of the Board The Board comprises four non-executive directors, three of whom are independent, and two executive directors.
The Board has been established in order to give a balance of knowledge, experience and objective overview.
The executive directors provide the necessary skills in commercial, operational and financial management.
The executive directors on the Board are the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The four non-executive directors provide a blend of experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Board's deliberations.
Mr. McMonigall is the senior independent non-executive director.
The Board has considered the independence of the non-executive directors and believes that all of the non-executive directors are currently independent of management and free from any material business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, with the exception of Mr. Gaunt who previously served as an executive director.
Mr. McMonigalls service to the Board has been extraordinary since the companys founding and his continued service is of high benefit not withstanding his tenure of ten years.
The directors biographies appear on page 7.
These demonstrate that the directors have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources, finance, controls and standards of conduct.
The Board does not sit with a permanent chairman, but rather the chair rotates amongst the senior non-executive members present at the meeting excluding the CEO, with the meetings chair sitting until the next meeting.
This arrangement has been in place whilst the Board continues to search for an appropriate chairman.
The Board is structured to ensure that there is no undue dominance by the executive directors, with controls over compensation and all other material matters reserved for the Board rather than individual executives, as discussed below.
The Board is satisfied that the appropriate balance has been consistently achieved.
The terms and conditions of employment of the non-executives are available for inspection at any time at the registered office.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the company.
A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on pages 9 and 10.
Training is made available to the directors where it is considered appropriate.
New members of the Board are expected to receive induction training in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Schedule of Matters The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, which includes approval of financial statements, dividends, Board appointments and removals, long term objectives and commercial strategy, changes in capital structure, appointment, removal and compensation of senior management, major investments including mergers and acquisitions, risk management, corporate governance, engagement of professional advisors, political donations and internal control arrangements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the company's position, lies with the Board.
Board Meetings The Board meets at least once a quarter, meeting four times during 2006 and acting by unanimous written consent three times.
All directors attended all meetings, except for Mr. McMonigall who attended 75% of the meetings missing one for personal reasons.
Prior to each meeting, the Board is furnished with information in a form and quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the state of the business and performance.
Company Secretary All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary ensures that the directors take independent professional advice as required.
Committees are provided with sufficient financial and informational resources to undertake their duties.
Re-Election All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years, and at each annual general meeting one third must retire by rotation.
Directors who are appointed by the Board must retire at the next annual general meeting so that they may be re-elected by the shareholders.
11 Autonomy Corporation plc Corporate Governance Statement Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee to deal with specific aspects of the company's affairs: Audit Committee.
The members of the audit committee are John McMonigall, Barry Ariko and Richard Perle.
Each of Messrs McMonigall and Ariko have significant material financial expertise, and each have served as the chair at times during 2006.
The committees terms of reference include, among other things, monitoring the scope and results of the external audit, the review of interim and annual results, the involvement of the external auditors in those processes, review of whistle blowing procedures, considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and for advising the Board on the requirement to maintain an effective system of internal controls.
The committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the group's external auditors, value for money of the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee has authority over the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the company's auditors.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors regarding independence.
Non-audit work is generally put out to tender.
In most cases, the company engages another independent firm of accountants to perform tax consulting work to avoid the possibility that the auditors' objectivity and independence could be compromised: work is only carried out by the auditors in cases where they are best suited to perform the work, for example, tax compliance.
The company does not award general consulting work to the auditors.
However, from time to time, the company will engage the auditors on matters relating to acquisition accounting and due diligence.
In these circumstances, the Chief Financial Officer seeks approval from the committee.
The committee meets at least four times a year, and always prior to the announcement of interim or annual results.
The external auditors and Chief Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the committee is available for it to operate effectively.
The entire committee also meets at least once a year with the external auditors without any executive directors present.
The committee met four times during 2006.
Mr. Ariko attended 100% of the meetings, Mr. McMonigall attended 75%, and Mr. Perle attended 50%, each missing meetings only for extraordinary personal reasons.
A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report beginning on page 14.
The Nominations Committee has responsibility for proposing to the Board new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and makes recommendations to the Board on board composition and balance.
The committee identifies and nominates for approval candidates for new Board positions and to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Nominations are based on the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The committee also reviews the time required from a non-executive director.
The committee strives to consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, also taking into account what skills and expertise are needed on the Board in the future.
In conducting its duties the committee may seek external advice.
Whilst a broad range of candidates was considered during 2006, no formal nominations were appropriate.
Thus whilst the committee discussed matters in 2006 it did not convene formally.
The committee currently consists of Messrs. Ariko and Perle, with Mr. Perle in the chair.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all committees.
Terms of references of the committees of the Board are available from the company secretary upon request.
Performance Evaluations The members of the Board evaluate the performance of the Board, its committees and individual members at meetings, at the first meeting following the end of the year.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, are responsible for the scope of the evaluation, taking into account the views of executive directors.
Relations with Shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The quarterly and annual results are intended to give a detailed review of the business and developments.
A full Annual Report is sent to all shareholders.
com contains up to date information on the companys activities and published financial results.
The company holds regular investor conference calls and webcasts archived on the website, and solicits regular dialogue with institutional shareholders other than during closed periods.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with all shareholders and welcomes their participation.
Significant Risks The company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company that has been in place for 2006 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
Principal controls are managed by the executive directors and key employees, including regular review by management and the Board of the operations and the financial statements of the company.
Autonomy Corporation plc 12 Corporate Governance Statement Internal Control The Board is responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness with regard to achieving the companys business objectives and enhancing shareholder value.
Such a system is designed to manage the risk of failure, and by its nature can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of these financial statements.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the companys internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and believes the system is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
These reviews are principally based on reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for purposes of this Annual Report using the standard of care applicable to directors in the exercise of their duties.
The directors consider that its internal controls, particularly given the companys size and the nature of the companys business operations, provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main elements of internal control currently include: Operating Controls.
The identification and mitigation of major business risks on a daily basis is the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management.
Each business function within the company maintains controls and procedures, as directed by senior management, appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to the companys standards and guidelines.
These include procedures and guidelines to identify, evaluate the likelihood and mitigate all types of risks on an ongoing basis.
The companys operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting financial and non-financial information to the directors.
Financial projections, including revenue and profit forecasts, are reported on a regular basis to senior management against corresponding figures for previous periods.
The central process for evaluating and managing non-financial risks is weekly meetings of business functions, each involving at least one director, together with periodic meetings of executive directors and senior management.
The finance department operates within policies approved by the directors and the Chief Financial Officer.
Expenditures are tightly controlled with stringent approvals required based on amount.
Duties such as legal, finance, sales and operations are also strictly segregated to minimize risk.
Insurance cover is provided externally and depends on the scale of the risk in question and the availability of cover in the external market.
Internal Audit As the company has grown during 2006 the Board has discussed matters relating to internal control and the present need to establish an internal audit function.
Given the company's extensive internal reporting functions, extensive internal controls and significant executive director involvement in all aspects of the companys business affairs, during 2006 the Board did not consider it necessary for the company to have its own internal audit function.
No material breaches of internal controls were identified during 2006.
Given the companys recent growth, at the commencement of 2007 senior management appointed a manager to be responsible for an internal audit function.
Key Risks Matters relating to key risks are discussed on page 6.
By order of the Board, Andrew M Kanter Company Secretary 13 March 2007 13 Autonomy Corporation plc
