Financial statements Group IFRS Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements of Tomkins plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group.
The Directors are required by law to prepare the Groups financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are required to ensure that the Groups financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows which requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definition and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In preparing the Groups financial statements, the Directors are required to select and apply accounting policies, present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information, and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position, financial performance or cash flows.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements comply with applicable law.
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for including in the Annual Report a report on Directors remuneration which complies with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the Groups financial statements confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial information contained on the corporate website, www.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Groups financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
