Directors report Governance Audit Committee report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements Director may attend any meeting of a Board Committee provided of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code and paragraphs 5.1 that they have no conflict of interest in respect of business to be and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees produced by discussed.
It is usual practice for the Chief Executive to attend Sir Robert Smith.
The report describes the role of the Audit meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other finance and business Committee in meeting these requirements.
risk executives attend meetings and the Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee Chairman reports Terms of reference regularly to the Board on its activities.
Four meetings were held The Committees terms of reference, a copy of which can during the year and attendance is set out in the table on page 27. be found in the Responsibilities Governance area on the Companys website, are reviewed from time to time and Work of the Committee approved by the Board of Tomkins.
They are based on the The Committee has established an agenda framework which model terms of reference set out in the Guidance Note Tomkins believes is vital for maintaining an appropriate focus on produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and the objectives of the Committee.
The agenda sets out all of the Administrators and take account of the requirements of operational duties and responsibilities outlined in the Committees the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Guidance Notes set terms of reference and is based on four regular meetings, in out in Sir Robert Smiths Report published in January 2003.
February, April, July and October, which coincide with the announcement of the quarterly results.
The areas covered by The terms of reference cover membership and appointment, the agenda framework are as follows: meetings, duties and responsibilities, authority and a number of other matters.
Corporate Governance, including the regular review of the Committees terms of reference and annual evaluation, Membership and appointment regulatory issues, review of delegated authorities and review The Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive of auditor independence.
Directors: David Richardson who was appointed to the Committee on 1 March 2006 and became Chairman on 22 May 2006: Jack 2.
Risk and Assurance ie internal audit, including the review of the Keenan, who was appointed in November 2001: and Richard internal audit charter, update on risk assessment and internal Gillingwater, who was appointed in December 2005.
Norman audit reviews and future plans, compliance with auditing Broadhurst and Ken Minton ceased to be members of the standards and progress against its internal audit business plan, Committee upon their retirement from the Board on 22 May 2006. functional developments and key performance measures.
The Board has determined that all three members of the Audit 3.
Confidential sessions with the independent auditors and the Committee are independent for the purposes of the Combined head of Risk and Assurance Services, in the absence of Directors Code and rule 10A.
3 b 1 under the US Securities Exchange Act and Company executives.
of 1934 and section 303A of the New York Stock Exchanges 4.
Financial Reporting, including current accounting and financial Listed Company Manual.
The members bring wide-ranging reporting matters and review of quarterly, interim and annual financial, commercial and management experience to the work statements prior to their submission to the Board for approval, of the Audit Committee and their biographical details are set out which includes the consistency of judgements adopted.
Independent Audit, including appointment, audit plan and The Chairman of the Committee, David Richardson, is a scope, review of audit fees, cost effectiveness, approval of Chartered Accountant FCA, having previously held a number of non-audit fees, reports on interim and annual financial senior financial management and strategic planning positions in statements, status reports, management letters and the Whitbread plc from 1983 to 2005 in the UK and US, becoming nature and extent of non-audit services.
Prior to 1983, he held financial positions in ICL plc and Touche Ross & Co.
In accordance with The audit plan and scope sets out details of the areas to be covered section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Board has and how the audit is to be conducted.
The Chairman of the Audit determined that David Richardson is an audit committee Committee meets periodically with the independent auditors to financial expert as that term is defined under the rules of the discuss progress on the audit and the major points to arise, and US Securities and Exchange Commission, having significant, has the opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the process.
The relevant and up-to-date UK and US financial and accounting Committee is also able to assess the effectiveness of the auditors knowledge and experience.
and the process through reports made to the Committee by the independent auditors.
Meetings The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and on other In addition to the items considered by the Committee under occasions when circumstances require.
The quorum for a meeting the agenda framework, during 2006 other important issues of the Committee is two members.
The Finance Director and considered included regular reviews of the internal control systems representatives from the independent auditor and the internal and the statement to be made in the Directors Report in respect auditor attend meetings under a standing invitation.
The Chairman of internal controls, Group risk profile, Group tax reports, updates of the Board, the Chief Executive and other Directors are able to on compliance with the Combined Code, review of tax services attend meetings of the Committee under the practice that any provided by the independent auditors, Form 20-F and update Annual Report 2006 33 Directors report Governance Audit Committee report continued of IT systems.
Amendments to the Statement of Policy on the Accountancy Bodies in particular that the independent auditors pre-approval of audit, audit-related, tax and other services should not audit their own firms work, make management provided by the independent auditors were made.
Confidential decisions for the Company, create a mutuality of interest nor be meetings with representatives of the independent audit and put in the position of advocate for the Company, when taken internal audit functions took place during the year in the absence together provide adequate protection of auditor independence.
Considerable time and emphasis continued to be All fees proposed by the independent auditors must be reported placed by the Committee on compliance with section 404 of the to and approved by the Audit Committee or, between meetings, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and detailed progress reports were the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Details of audit fees for received by the Committee at each of its meetings, including an the year can be found in note 15 to the Groups consolidated update of the Sarbanes-Oxley Project Risk Profile.
This was the financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
focus of attention of the Risk and Assurance Services and internal The Companys practice, in accordance with the UK Companies audit function during the first half of the year.
In the second Act and the Combined Code, in relation to the appointment half of the year, Risk and Assurance Services resources were and termination of the independent auditors, involves a transitioned towards internal audit reviews, with an appropriate recommendation from the Audit Committee to the Board, amount of resources applied to Sarbanes-Oxley and internal audit which will then make a recommendation to shareholders in responsibilities.
The Audit Committee received reports on the general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the US, implementation of the Oracle IT project in Gates during the year.
where the independent auditors are accountable to the Audit Risk and Assurance Services internal audit function is actively Committee, which has the authority to appoint or dismiss the engaged in the business risk assessment processes in the Groups independent auditors without reference to shareholders.
businesses and also provides guidance and assistance in the With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established development of risk mitigation plans.
Each quarter, the guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees Committee receives a summary of reviews of the businesses of the independent auditors.
The Group will not engage, on a risk management processes: any significant related financial part-time or full-time basis, any person who is or was an employee exposures are also highlighted.
The risk assessment process and of the Companys independent auditors, where that person has risk mitigation plans are an important part of the development of worked on the Groups audit either as a principal or partner at business strategies.
Business risks are considered at the quarterly any time during a period of not less than three years prior to reviews with the businesses, where all of the major strategic, the proposed date of joining the Group.
Certain less stringent operational, compliance and financial risks are discussed.
During the conditions apply to other employees or former employees of year, Ms Shawn Tebben left the Company and on 1 January 2007, the independent auditors.
Mr Joseph Montoya was appointed Vice-President Risk and Assurance Services for the Group in her place.
There were A whistleblowing procedure has been established for the no matters Ms Tebben drew to the attention of the Committee confidential and anonymous submission by employees of concerning her departure from the Company.
concerns regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters, in accordance with the requirements of section 301 of In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Should a call be received on the provided by the independent auditors, the Committee has dedicated telephone line, the Vice-President, Risk and Assurance taken account of the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Services would immediately report to the Chairman of the Audit Commission which regulate and, in certain circumstances, Committee all concerns raised.
A course of action is agreed and prohibit the provision of, certain types of non-audit services a report is prepared for review at the next meeting of the Audit by the independent auditors.
Non-audit services are ordinarily Committee, including details of actions taken to deal with the put out to tender and require the approval of the Chairman matters raised.
The Chairman of the Committee will report all of the Audit Committee.
During the year, specific projects cases of whistleblowing to the Committee and the Board.
requiring tax services were the subject of a tender process and The Companys Code of Conduct and Ethics includes the in a number of cases the work was not awarded to the firm of whistleblowing procedure.
Calls to the designated telephone the independent auditors.
In those cases where the work was number, as well as direct contacts with management, are made awarded to the independent auditors, it was concluded that from time to time, but no issues material to the Company were the firm of the independent auditors was best placed to supply dealt with by the Committee during the year.
such tax services in a cost-effective manner due to the experience and qualifications of the individuals providing such services, the Shareholders are given the opportunity at the AGM to ask the independent auditors knowledge of the Company and its tax Chairman of the Committee questions on this report and any affairs and that the best interests of the Company were served other related matter.
by engaging the firm of the independent auditors.
The previous David Richardson adoption of certain other rules by the Committee, including those Chairman, Audit Committee relating to audit partner rotation, relevant ethical guidance issued by the professional bodies in the Consultative Committee of 14 February 2007 34 Annual Report 2006
