Directors report Governance Key governance principles The Tomkins Board promotes the highest standards of corporate Commission.
US employees have the added protection of section governance within the Company through its support and 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which prohibits the application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in discrimination by a company or others against an employee section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003. where such violations are reported.
The current procedure, which A summary of the Companys system of applying the principles is set out in Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, provides for and the manner in which the provisions in section 1 have been information to be given anonymously or by named employees complied with are set out below.
Section 1 of the Combined Code under conditions of confidentiality.
Those employees who come sets out the main and supporting Principles of Good Governance forward and give their name are assured that they will receive the for companies, which are split into the following areas: full protection of section 806 and no retaliation will take place.
This is of particular importance since 54% of the Companys 1.
Directors employees are based in the US.
Remuneration ensures that the principles are applied in other jurisdictions, 3.
Accountability and audit subject to compliance with local employment and other laws.
Shareholder relations The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility Each of these areas is addressed in turn.
for the day-to-day management of the Group subject to 1.
Directors certain financial limits above which Board approval is required.
The Board The delegated authority includes such matters as operations, The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors, acquisitions and divestitures, investments, capital expenditure, whose main roles are to: borrowing facilities and foreign currency transactions.
Create value for shareholders: The Board of Directors comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, five Provide leadership of the Company: additional Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors Approve the Companys strategic objectives: who together, with their different financial, commercial, technical Ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are and operational expertise and cultures, bring with them a wide made available to the management to enable them to meet range of experience to the Company.
those objectives: and Operate within a framework of effective controls which enables The Board has determined that David Newlands, Richard the assessment and management of principal business risks.
Gillingwater, Jack Keenan, Sir Brian Pitman, David Richardson and Struan Robertson are independent, as they are independent The Board, which has reserved certain specific matters to itself of the Companys executive management and free from any for decision set out in a Schedule of Reserved Matters and material business or other relationship with the Company either updated in 2006, is responsible for approving overall Group directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation strategy and financial policy, acquisition and divestment policy that has a relationship with the Company.
In December 2000, and major capital expenditure projects.
It also appoints and at the request of the Board, the Non-Executive Chairman, David removes members of the Board and Board Committees, and Newlands, temporarily assumed certain executive responsibilities reviews recommendations of the Audit Committee, Remuneration until the recruitment of James Nicol as Chief Executive in February Committee and Nomination Committee and the appointment 2002.
It is the Boards view that this short-term arrangement did of the independent auditor and the financial performance and not affect Mr Newlands independence.
Accordingly, the Board operation of each of the Companys businesses.
believes that there are no such relationships that could materially The Board sets the standards and values of the Company and interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
much of this has been embodied in the Companys Code of Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a minimum Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights Policy which can be found period of two years, which is renewable by agreement with on the Companys website, www.
The Code of the Board and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Conduct and Ethics applies to all Directors, officers and employees, Annual General Meeting AGM.
The terms and conditions including the principal executive, financial and accounting officers, of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for as required by section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, inspection at the Companys registered office during normal the related rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission business hours on weekdays and will also be available for and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
The Code contains inspection at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the provisions Reporting of Violations under which employees can meeting until it ends.
The Combined Code recommends the report violations of company policy or any applicable law, rule or appointment of a senior independent Non-Executive Director regulation, including those of the US Securities and Exchange 26 Annual Report 2006 Directors report Governance and Sir Brian Pitman served in this capacity during the year under is frequent contact to progress the affairs of the Company.
The roles of Non-Executive Directors are to: the encouragement of the Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting the Directors have regular contact with senior management through agreed objectives: their presentations at Board meetings, at strategic reviews and Help develop proposals on strategy: and on other occasions.
Monitor the reporting of performance, including satisfying Attendance by each individual Director at Board and principal themselves as to the integrity of financial information and that Committee meetings held during 2006 financial controls and systems of risk management put in place Health, Safety and by the Company are robust and effective.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee They meet together from time to time in the absence of Meetings held management and the Chairman normally presides over in 2006 5441 4 such meetings.
Meetings attended: On appointment, Non-Executive Directors receive a range of David Newlands 4 n a 2 1 n a information about the Company, including its strategy, structure, Richard Gillingwater 5 4 4 1 n a geographical spread of operations, financial position, markets, Jack Keenan 5 4 4 1 n a products, technologies and people, as well as their legal Ken Lever 5 n a n a n a n a responsibilities as a Director and, where appropriate, any training James Nicol 5 n a n a n a 4 that is necessary for them to carry out their duties effectively.
Sir Brian Pitman 4 n a n a 1 n a An induction programme is available which aims to provide an David Richardson 3 2 n a 1 n a understanding of the Company as a whole, including its strategy, Struan Robertson 5 n a n a 1 3 structure, geographical spread of operations, financial position, Notes markets, products, technologies and people, as well as their legal n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of a Committee.
The Board and its Committees David Newlands was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on receive, in a timely manner, detailed information concerning 28 July 2006.
David Richardson joined the Board on 1 March 2006 the matters to be discussed to enable them to make informed and was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Audit decisions.
The Directors have access to the advice and services Committee meeting due to a prior engagement arranged before of the Company Secretary, whose removal may be effected only he was appointed.
During the year, other Directors have attended with the approval of the Board, and can obtain independent meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance Nomination Committee and Health, Safety and Environment of their duties, if required.
These details are not included in the The Board ordinarily meets not less than five times a year, and above table.
On the rare occasion when a Director cannot attend will hold additional meetings when circumstances require.
a meeting, he will normally, prior to the meeting, make his views During the year to 30 December 2006, the Board met on five on the agenda items known to the Chairman or, in respect of occasions.
Between meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee meetings, to the chairman of the respective Committee.
update the Non-Executive Directors on current matters and there Directors membership of principal Committees Health, Safety General Audit Nomination Remuneration and Environment Disclosure Purposes David Newlands C M C James Nicol MMM Ken Lever MM Sir Brian Pitman M Richard Gillingwater M M C Jack Keenan M M M David Richardson C M Struan Robertson M C C Chairman M member Annual Report 2006 27 Directors report Governance Key governance principles continued At the Companys forthcoming AGM, and in accordance with the Nomination Committee Companys Articles of Association, David Newlands, Jack Keenan The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the and Sir Brian Pitman as the longest serving Directors, will retire Board on all proposed appointments of Directors through a from the Board and David Newlands will seek reappointment.
The Committee meets Details of David Newlands terms of appointment can be found as and when required.
in the Remuneration Committee report.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors B.
Chairman and Chief Executive are subject to reappointment at the AGM immediately following There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman the date of their appointment, and thereafter they have to seek and the Chief Executive, with neither having unfettered powers reappointment no more than three years from the date they were of decision with respect to substantial matters.
The Chairman is last reappointed.
The Committee recommends to the Board the responsible for running the Board and ensures that all Directors names of the Directors who are to seek reappointment at the receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
corporate matters to enable them to participate effectively in Board During the year, one new Board appointment was made.
In advance of each meeting, the Board is provided with Nomination Committee was central to the recruitment process, comprehensive briefing papers on items under consideration.
including the appointment of professional advisers and conducting The Chairman, David Newlands, is also Chairman of KESA interviews with potential candidates, and the Committee and Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
Whilst these are important Board are aware of, and support, the principles set out in section appointments, the Board of Tomkins believes that the Chairman A.
4 of the Combined Code relating to appointments to the Board.
continues to be able to carry out his duties and responsibilities Health, Safety and Environment Committee effectively for the Company.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee meets at least The Chief Executives primary role is the running of the Companys three times a year.
The Committee is chaired by an independent businesses and the development and implementation of strategy.
Non-Executive Director and its membership also includes the The Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with the Chief Executive.
Its principal role is to determine, on behalf of the Chairman and with the Chief Executive periodically, either together Board, the framework or broad policy and objectives in the areas or separately, to consider and discuss a wide range of matters of health, safety and the environment HSE and propose any affecting the Company, its business, strategy and other matters.
amendments to existing policies for approval by the Board.
It also reviews managements performance in the achievement of HSE C. Board Committees objectives and reviews HSE reports produced by business units The Board has established a number of Committees and receives for compliance with all local health, safety and environmental reports of their proceedings.
Each Committee has its own codes of practice, legislation and relevant industry practice.
delegated authority as defined in its terms of reference, which are reviewed periodically by the Board.
The Board is satisfied More details of the work of the Health, Safety and Environment that its Committees have written terms of reference which Committee can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report to conform with best corporate governance practice.
The terms shareholders available on Tomkins website www.
of reference for all Board Committees can be found on the Remuneration Committee Companys website, www.
co. uk under Responsibilities Details of the Remuneration Committee and its work can be Governance, or a copy can be obtained by application to the found on pages 35 to 41.
Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Disclosure Committee The Board appoints the chairmen and members of all Board The Disclosure Committee meets as and when required for the Committees upon the recommendation of the Nomination purpose of, inter alia, reviewing and approving for release all priceCommittee.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to all Board sensitive information relating to the Company and compliance Committees.
The principal Committees, their membership with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial and a brief description of their duties are set out below.
Mr N N Broadhurst and Mr K J Minton retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 22 May 2006 General Purposes Committee and stood down from their Committee memberships at the The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
It comprises Executive Directors and senior executives and the quorum requires the presence of at least one Executive Director.
Audit Committee The Committee deals principally with day-to-day matters of a Details of the Audit Committee and its work can be found routine nature and matters delegated to it by the Board.
28 Annual Report 2006 Directors report Governance D. Board, Committee and Chairman evaluations C. Going concern Under the direction of the Senior Independent Director, The Directors are confident, on the basis of current financial Sir Brian Pitman, evaluations of the effectiveness of the Board, projections and facilities available, that the Company and the Group its Committees and Chairman were conducted during the year.
have adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the The evaluation processes continued with the same approach foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt as the previous year which drew on the experiences of the the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
previous evaluations of the Board and its Committees and D. Whistleblower reporting procedures concentrated on six key elements: Under section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, all public The optimum mix of skills and knowledge amongst the Directors: companies, including non-US public companies such as Tomkins, Clarity of goals and processes: acting through the Audit Committee of the Board, must provide Tailoring the evaluation to the specific circumstances of Tomkins: a procedure for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints The culture of candour that encourages constructive evaluation: received by the Company regarding accounting, internal controls Regular reviews of assessment criteria: and or auditing matters.
The Audit Committee and the Board have Full disclosure of procedures and criteria to the Board.
agreed a procedure for the confidential and anonymous submission Board and Committee by employees of concerns regarding these matters.
The fourth Board performance evaluation took place during the 4.
Shareholder relations year, which continued the processes developed in the first three The Company places a high degree of importance on maintaining years.
The overall view of the Directors was that the Board good relationships and communications with both institutional continues to function well, supported by high-quality papers, and private investors and ensures that shareholders are kept presentations and reporting, with some minor areas where informed of significant Company developments.
Each of these areas has been considered by the Board and arrangements made to address To assist members of the Board to gain an understanding of the each of the matters raised.
views of institutional shareholders, at each of its meetings the Board receives an Investor Relations Report, which covers a wide The third Board Committee performance evaluation reinforced the range of matters including a commentary on the perception of positive messages that were highlighted in the first two evaluations.
the Company and views expressed by the investment community, The Committees were led by strong and experienced members who media reports, share price performance and analysis.
There were a small number of suggestions reports and estimates are also made available to all Directors.
on improving particular aspects of the work of the Committees, The announcement of quarterly, half-year and full-year results including the distribution of Minutes to all Directors and, overall, the provides opportunities for the Company to answer questions from Directors continue to believe that the Committees function well.
institutional shareholders covering a wide range of topics.
The Chairman Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Investor Relations For the evaluation of the Chairman, the more formal approach staff hold an ongoing dialogue with institutional shareholders to adopted last year continued, including completion of a ensure the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief Executive questionnaire that sought views across a broad range of the and other senior executives participate in industry conferences, Chairmans responsibilities.
The Directors continued to be very which are attended by existing and potential shareholders.
During positive about the role performed by the Chairman and his the year, a survey of institutional shareholders was conducted to leadership of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director, seek their views on a wide range of matters and a report on its Sir Brian Pitman discussed with the Chairman a small number findings was presented to the Board.
The Company exercises of matters which were raised during the evaluation process.
care to ensure that all price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same time, as required by the Listing 2.
Remuneration Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Securities and See the Remuneration Committee report on pages 35 to 41.
Exchange Commission Regulation FD in the US.
Accountability and Audit The Companys website provides shareholders and potential A.
Financial reporting investors with information about the Company, including annual In the Directors report, the Board seeks to provide a detailed and interim reports, recent announcements, investor presentations, understanding of each business of the Group, together with share price information, Group policies, corporate responsibility a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys and governance matters.
Shareholders are also able to put position and prospects.
questions to the Company via its website.
Internal control Shareholders also have the opportunity to attend the AGM to Further information on the internal control environment within put questions to the Board.
Full details of the 2007 AGM are on which Tomkins operates may be found in the Directors statement pages 42 and 43.
It has been the Companys practice to send the on internal control on pages 31 and 32.
Annual Report 2006 29 Directors report Governance Key governance principles continued Notice of the AGM and related papers to shareholders at least Compliance statement 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate Except where indicated, the Company has complied throughout resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
the financial year ended 30 December 2006 with all the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code.
The Board notes that section 2 of the Combined Code During the year, the Company decided to take advantage of the seeks to encourage more active participation by institutional relaxations to the 2003 Combined Code that will be permitted by shareholders, including entering into a dialogue with the updated version of the Code issued by the Financial Reporting companies and making considered use of their votes Council in June 2006 for reporting years starting on or after principles which the Company supports.
Accordingly, the Chairman was appointed Substantial shareholdings a member of the Remuneration Committee from 28 July 2006 Material interests notified to the Company representing 3% and the terms of reference of Board Committees have been or more of the issued ordinary share capital at 14 February 2007 placed on the Companys website.
are set out in the table below.
The certifications of the Chief Executive and Finance Director No.
of shares % required under section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Tradewinds NWQ Global Investors, LLC 90,937,724 10.62 and the related rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Sprucegrove Investment will be filed as exhibits to the Companys Form 20-F. Pursuant Management Limited 52,306,007 6.11 to section 303A, the Foreign Private Issuer Annual Written Barclays PLC 30,477,517 3.56 Affirmation was sent to the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 26,779,688 3.13 in June 2006, affirming without qualification that Tomkins has Morgan Stanley Securities Limited 23,285,496 3.01 complied with the requirements laid down by the NYSE in respect of Foreign Private Issuers.
Voting rights notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Company has placed on its website a general summary of the at 14 February 2007 are as set out in the table below.
significant ways in which the Companys corporate governance % of total No.
of shares voting rights differs from that followed by domestic US companies under the NYSEs listing standards, as required by section 303A.
Legal & General Group plc 28,997,849 3.37 Statement on Directors report Interests notified in the perpetual preference shares at 14 February So far as the Directors who are in office at the time when the 2007 were as below.
Directors report is approved are aware, there is no relevant audit Perpetual preference shares No.
of shares % information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and 1 L G Atherton 1,826,232 69.67 each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 2 C G Cannon 1,682,797 64.20 taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 1 J S Gates 1,793,496 68.42 audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors 2 V Gates 1,508,082 57.53 are aware of that information.
1 B G Hopper 2,088,926 79.69 Approved by the Board on 14 February 2007 and signed on its 3 R E Hopper 2,088,926 79.69 behalf by 1 D G Wallach 1,793,680 68.43 4 M F Wallach 1,793,680 68.43 David Newlands 2 H G Woodruff 1,706,455 65.10 Chairman 1 J A Woodruff III 1,720,264 65.63 2 T S Woodruff 1,701,861 64.93 Notes Includes interests held as joint trustees and interests in income from shares held under trust where there may be more than one beneficiary.
It is for this reason that the interests sum to more than 100%.
These persons are also income beneficiaries of some of the trusts.
In those cases where the person is both a joint trustee and an income beneficiary in a particular trust the holding is not counted twice.
3 Includes interest by attribution from spouse B G Hopper.
4 Includes interest by attribution from spouse D G Wallach.
