Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT In June 1998 the Hampel Committee and the London Stock Exchange published the Combined Code on corporate governance.
This combines the Cadbury Code on corporate governance, the Greenbury Code on directors remuneration and new requirements arising from the findings of the Hampel Committee.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BEST PRACTICE The Company has complied throughout the period with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except for provision A6.1, as the Board does not currently undertake formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its committees, but is currently in the process of implementing such a procedure.
The Company complies with all other provisions of the code.
Code Provision C. 3.1 requires the members of the audit committee to be named in the report and financial statements.
Mr. W. A. McIntosh Chairman, Mr. V. H. Watson and Mr. J. M. Jack have served on the committee throughout the period.
The Board of Directors comprises seven members, of whom three are independent Non-Executive Directors and four are Executive Directors led by the Companys Executive Chairman, Mr. B J F Bester.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Mr. A McIntosh, who also chairs the Audit Committee.
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 20 and 21.
The Board meets at least twelve times a year.
Certain defined issues are reserved for the Board including approval of financial statements and circulars, Annual budgets, Strategy, Directors appointments, service agreements and remuneration, internal control and risk management, Corporate governance, key external and internal appointments and pensions and employee incentives.
In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date information about the trading performance of each operating location, the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company, all Directors have access to the Company Secretary and they may also address specific issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the articles of association, all directors are subject to re-election every third year thereafter.
As such, Nicholas Ounstead will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors are elected at the first AGM after appointment, therefore, Matthew Williams will be subject to election at the forthcoming AGM.
All non executive directors have written letters of appointment.
These letters of appointment stipulate three-year renewable terms of office.
In line with the Code all non executive directors who have served for nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
As such, Victor Watson and Alan McIntosh will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Although their length of service exceeds nine years the Board regards them to be independent and considers their broad based commercial experience and extensive business specific knowledge to be extremely beneficial.
However the Board is continually reviewing this situation.
The Board considers that Messrs W A McIntosh, V H Watson and The Rt Hon J M Jack are all independent for the purposes of the 2003 Code.
The terms and conditions for the appointment of non executive directors are available for inspection on request.
The Board also operates three committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
All of these committees meet regularly and have formal written terms of reference which are available for inspection on request.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 and the attendance record of the individual Directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination of Directors Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 12 2 2 1 B. F. J. Bester 12 221 N. D. Ounstead 12 2 N A N A A. Liggett 12 221 M. T. M. Williams Appointed 1 April 2006 5 1 N A N A W. A. McIntosh 8221 V. H. Watson 11 221 J. M. Jack 11 221 28 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 STATEMENT ABOUT APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied in connection with Directors remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The audit committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is Alan McIntosh.
The other members are Victor Watson and Michael Jack.
All members of the audit committee are regarded as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The audit committee considers the nature and scope of the audit process both internal and external and its effectiveness.
The committee reviews and approves the internal audit programme, meets with the external auditors and considers the annual and interim financial statements before submission to the board.
The committee reviews the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The committee also reviews the groups system of internal control and reports its findings twice yearly to the board.
The committee meets with the external auditors, in the absence of the executive directors, at least twice a year.
As stated above, part of the role of the audit committee is to review the independence of the companys auditors.
The companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP have provided non-audit services to the company in the form of tax advice and other advisory work.
The audit committee is aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
The audit committee has concluded that the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are independent.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The nominations committee is chaired by Victor Watson.
The other members are currently Alan McIntosh, Michael Jack, Barry Bester and Andrew Liggett.
The formal terms of reference for this committee require it to make recommendations to the board for appointments of directors and other senior executive staff.
Appointments to the board are made on merit, against objective criteria, taking into account the skills and experience required.
Where appropriate, external search consultants are enlisted.
DIALOGUE WITH INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making annual presentations and communicating regularly throughout the year.
The Company also posts financial information on its website www.
MAINTENANCE OF A SOUND SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been put in place from the start of the period to the date of the approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purposes of this annual report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work of internal audit.
The audit committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
