70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 45 A UDIT COMMIT TEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2006 ROLE OF THE AUDIT identifying any matters in respect of presence of management and in COMMIT TEE which it considers that action or addition during the year, the The Audit Committee is responsible for: improvement is needed, and make Committee Chairman held a number Monitoring the integrity of the recommendations as to the steps to of meetings or telephone conferences financial statements of the Company be taken.
with the Group Head of Business Risk and any formal announcements The Committees full terms of and Assurance and with the external relating to the Companys financial reference are available on the auditors, all without management performance, and reviewing Companys website, or on request to being present.
significant financial reporting the Company Secretary.
judgements contained therein: MAIN ACTIVITIES OF Reviewing the Companys internal COMPOSITION OF THE THE COMMIT TEE financial controls and, unless AUDIT COMMIT TEE DURING THE YEAR expressly addressed by the Board Chris Bunker was Chairman, and At its meeting in February, the itself, the Companys internal control Michael Dearden a member of the Committee reviewed the annual and risk management systems: Committee, throughout the year.
financial statements of the Company Monitoring and reviewing the Stephen Carter was appointed to the and received reports from the internal effectiveness of the Companys Committee in April 2006.
All members of auditors on control matters and from internal audit function: the Committee are considered to be the external auditors on the conduct of Making recommendations to the independent.
The Group Company their audit, their review of accounting Board, for a resolution to be put to Secretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to policies, areas of judgment and the the shareholders for their approval the Committee.
The Board considers financial statements and their in general meeting, in relation to the that Chris Bunker has the recent and comments on statements concerning appointment of the external auditors relevant financial experience required by risk and internal control.
A similar and the approval of the the Combined Code see also the Board review was undertaken at its August remuneration and terms of profiles on pages 40 and 41. meeting when the interim statements engagement of the external auditors: were considered.
Reviewing and monitoring the MEETINGS AND At these meetings, and at its external auditors independence and AT TENDANCE meetings in July and November, the objectivity and the effectiveness of The Committee met four times during Committee also dealt with the following the audit process, taking into 2006 to consider inter alia, the annual particular matters: consideration relevant UK and interim results.
The Chairman of It established terms of reference for professional and regulatory the Committee also invited the Group a subcommittee to make requirements: Chairman, the Group Finance Director, recommendations to the Committee Reviewing and monitoring the the Group Chief Operating Officer: the on administrative matters: Companys policy on the Group Financial Controller, the Group It reviewed the effectiveness of the engagement of the external auditors Head of Business Risk and Assurance systems of internal financial control: to supply non-audit services, taking and the external auditors to attend It reviewed the strategy, staffing into account relevant guidance each meeting.
During each meeting and processes of the internal regarding the provision of non-audit the external auditors and the Group audit department and services by the external audit firm.
Head of Business Risk and Assurance recommended to the Board minor The Audit Committee is required to were given the opportunity to talk changes to the terms of reference report its findings to the Board, with the Committee without the of that department: 45 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 46 A UDIT COMMIT TEE REPORT It reviewed the operation of the presented to the Committee their plans Board that a resolution be put to Groups whistleblowing policy: for the forthcoming audit together with shareholders at the Annual General It reviewed the policy on details of their proposed fees and how Meeting for the re-appointment of the engagement of the external auditor they ensure that their objectivity and external auditor, and to authorise the for non-audit work, as referred to independence are not compromised.
Directors to fix their remuneration.
below, and its policy on the It is the role of the Committee to employment of anyone previously ensure compliance with the Boards INTERNAL AUDIT employed by the external auditor: policy in respect of services provided by, As well as its reviews of the internal It reviewed the plans presented by and fees paid to, the auditor.
Audit fees audit departments strategy and the external auditor for conduct of are negotiated by the Finance Director processes, as described above, during its the year-end audit including terms and approved by the Audit Committee.
meetings in 2006, the Committee of engagement, fees and letters of For other services that may be provided received presentations from the Group engagement: by the auditor, the Companys policy is: Head of Business Risk and Assurance, It reviewed the Companys about the results of work undertaken by accounting policies and forthcoming Audit related services the department, and approved its plans International Financial Reporting The auditor is invited by the Company to for work in 2007.
The Committee was Standards and other regulatory undertake those services that they are satisfied with the overall effectiveness of changes: required to and are most suited to the department.
It reviewed the Companys approach perform.
Such work includes certification to tax planning: in respect of borrowings, stock exchange OVERVIEW It reviewed the Companys business related reporting and where appropriate, As a result of its work during the year, continuity planning: assistance with acquisitions.
and taking into account the result of the It reviewed an evaluation of its work board and committee evaluation carried out as part of the Board Taxation process described on page 43 the Audit The external auditor assists the Group to Committee has concluded that it has evaluation process referred to on page 43 and reported to the Board meet general tax compliance acted in accordance with its terms of on this evaluation: requirements as well as providing reference and has ensured the It reviewed any comments received advice on acquisitions and tax planning.
independence, objectivity and on its 2005 report from institutional Should opportunities arise for them to effectiveness of the external and investor bodies: advise on special tax projects, their internal auditors.
Principally by means of a suitability is assessed at the time to The chairman of the Audit Committee questionnaire, the Committee ensure it would not compromise their will be available at the Annual General reviewed the effectiveness of the audit independence, with the work Meeting to answer any questions about Internal and External Audit functions.
the work of the Committee.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS Consulting The Company places great importance To avoid any possible conflict of interest on the effectiveness and independence the Groups policy is not to employ its of its external auditor and together auditor for general consulting work.
C. J. Bunker with them is careful to ensure their Chairman, Audit Committee objectivity is not compromised.
At its Following its November 2006 meeting, 5 March 2007 November meeting, the auditor the Committee recommended to the 46
