70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 55 NOMIN A TIONS COMMIT TEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2006 The Nominations Committee was experience and capabilities required for established in July 2003, and its this appointment was agreed by the principal role is to identify and Committee in consultation with the nominate for Board approval, other directors.
Recruitment candidates to fill board vacancies as and consultants, Russell Reynolds, assisted when they arise.
It is required to the Committee in this process and a prepare a description of the role, and number of candidates were interviewed capabilities required, for any by the Committee and by other appointment, and to maintain contact directors.
As a result, Stephen Carter was with major shareholders about appointed on 24 April 2006. appointments to the Board.
It also The Committee also considered the reviews the induction process for newly forthcoming expiry of the terms of appointed directors, reviews annually appointment of Michael Dearden in the time required of nonexecutive November 2006 and Tim Stevenson in directors, keeps the structure, size and September 2007 and made composition of the Board under review, recommendations to the Board for the and considers succession planning for continuation of their appointments, as both executive and non-executive described in the remuneration report directors and for other senior executive on page 50.
During the year, the Committee nor Tim Stevenson took part in the members were Tim Stevenson discussion about his own appointment.
Chairman, together with Chris Bunker The Chairman of the Nominations and Michael Dearden both of whom are Committee will be available at the independent non-executive directors.
Annual General Meeting to answer During first half of the year, the any questions about the work of Committee reviewed the balance of the Committee.
experience on the Board, following the retirements of Ted Adams and Peter Maydon, and the appointment of Andrew Simon, as reported last year.
It recommended to the Board that a T. E. P. Stevenson further non-executive director should be Chairman, Nominations Committee appointed.
