70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 42 CORPORA TE GO VERN ANCE For the year ended 31 December 2006 COMBINED CODE direction of the trading subsidiaries, with the executive directors and keeps In June 1998, the Combined Code on their annual budgets and progress the non-executive directors informed of Corporate Governance was issued by the towards the achievement of those material developments between board London Stock Exchange and this was budgets and their capital expenditure meetings.
It also considers All directors have direct access to the 1 of the Code is applicable to legislative, environmental, health and Company Secretary and are able to take companies.
A statement on how the safety and employment issues.
The independent professional advice in the Company has applied the principles and Board has approved a written statement furtherance of their duties if necessary.
a statement explaining the extent to of the division of key responsibilities The Company maintains directors & which it has complied with the between the Chairman and the Chief officers insurance in respect of the risk provisions of the Code appear below.
The Code contains fourteen main The Chairman leads the Board, The Chairman held one meeting principles of governance, which are ensuring that each director is able to during the year with all the nondivided into the following four areas: make an effective contribution.
He also executive directors, without the monitors the information provided to executive directors being present and 1.
Directors the Board to ensure it is sufficient, several meetings with some of the nonThe Company is controlled through a timely and clear, and from time to time executive directors, also without the board of directors, which presently the Board reviews the adequacy of this executive directors being present.
The comprises the Chairman, three executive information.
Senior Independent Director held one and five non-executive directors.
Tim The Board held eleven meetings meeting during the year with the other Stevenson is Chairman and Geoff Cooper during 2006.
Stephen Carter and directors, without the Chairman being is Chief Executive.
Michael Dearden is Andrew Simon each missed one present, together with a number of the senior independent non-executive meeting because of commitments made individual discussions with the other director.
Chris Bunker, Stephen Carter, before their appointments to the Board.
directors, to evaluate the Chairmans Also, John Coleman, Michael Dearden performance, as described in more John Coleman and Andrew Simon are also independent non-executive and Andrew Simon each missed one detail below, and to review his salary.
Appointments of new meeting because of conflicting business The Board has adopted an induction directors are made by the Board on the engagements.
Otherwise, all meetings process for new directors and this is recommendation of the Nominations were attended by all directors.
One facilitated by the Company Secretary.
All directors will submit meeting dealt with consideration of the The Chairman ensures that all directors themselves for re-election at least every Companys long-term strategy and six receive appropriate training on three years.
meetings were either combined with appointment and then subsequently as The Board has a formal schedule of visits to parts of the Companys needed, taking into account their need matters reserved to it and meets at least operations or included presentations by to update their skills and their ten times a year.
It is responsible for senior executives on their areas of knowledge of the Companys business.
overall group strategy, policy on responsibility.
Individual visits to They are also regularly provided with corporate governance issues, acquisition operational sites by non-executive information on forthcoming legal and policy, approval of major capital directors also occurred.
In addition to regulatory changes and corporate expenditure and consideration of the regular board meetings, key governance developments.
significant financial and operational financial information is circulated to The Board has established four matters.
It monitors the exposure to key directors outside of meetings.
The standing committees: the Audit business risks and reviews the strategic Chairman has regular direct contact Committee, the Remuneration 42 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 43 CORPORA TE GOVERN ANCE Committee, the Nominations operation of the Board, its committees Groups trading subsidiaries and the Committee, and the Executive and each director.
These interviews financial position of the Group is Committee, which operate within formed the basis of a report by Egon included in the Chief Executives review, defined terms of reference.
Details are Zehnder that was the subject of a in the Chief Operating Officers review available on the Companys website or discussion by the Board and the and in the Finance Directors report set may be obtained from the Company Committees.
Egon Zehnder also gave out on pages 12 to 37.
The minutes of committee individual feedback to each director on them, together with the Chairmans meetings are available to all the his own performance.
The Board was statement on pages 10 and 11 to Directors.
During the year, the very pleased to hear Egon Zehnder say present a full assessment of the Remuneration Committee met seven that it was one of the best functioning Companys position and prospects.
The times, the Nominations Committee boards they had encountered.
Therefore directors responsibilities for the once, and the Audit Committee four the Board was satisfied that the process financial statements are described on times.
All these meetings were attended showed that the Board and its page 60. by all members of the relevant committees worked very effectively.
committee, except that John Coleman Nevertheless, the Board and the Internal control and Michael Dearden each missed one committees agreed a number of specific The Board of Directors is responsible for meeting of the Remuneration measures aimed at further enhancing the Groups system of internal control Committee because of conflicting their performance, in particular in the and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The reports of following areas: designing the system of internal control, the Audit Committee, Remuneration Transparency of information consideration is given to the significant Committee, and the Nominations between all Board members, risks to the business, the probability of Committee are on pages 45 and 46, 47 wherever possible: these risks manifesting themselves and to 54 and page 55 respectively.
The presentation of information to the overall cost of controlling them.
The The Executive Committee was the Board and its committees: system is designed to manage rather established in June 2005.
Its members Succession planning for senior than eliminate the risk of failing to are described on page 41.
Other executives: achieve business objectives and executives are invited to attend from In addition, during the year, the Senior therefore can only provide reasonable, time to time in relation to specific Independent Director led a process for and not absolute, assurance against issues.
The principal purpose of the appraisal of the performance of the material misstatement or loss.
Committee is to assist the executive Chairman.
He consulted with each other The implementation and day-to-day directors in the performance of their director in the light of the Egon Zehnder operation of the system of internal duties in relation in particular to: report and then provided feedback in a control has been delegated to Strategy, operational plans, policies, discussion with the other directors executive directors and senior procedures and budgets: without the Chairman being present.
A management, but the effectiveness of The monitoring of operational and board evaluation process will be carried the system is regularly reviewed by the financial performance: out in 2007.
Board in a process that accords with the The assessment and control of risk: Turnbull Guidance.
As part of its The prioritisation and allocation of 2.
Directors remuneration corporate governance procedures, the resources.
The Remuneration Committee consists Board has received regular reports on The Committee met fourteen times of the Chairman and three independent specific areas of risk.
If appropriate, during the year and all meetings were non-executive directors, and meets at these reports include recommendations attended by all members except that least four times a year.
Its for improvement in controls or for the management of those risks.
Martin Meech, Group Property Director responsibilities include a review of the and Jeremy Bird, Managing Director performance of executive directors and Furthermore, steps continue to be taken Wickes, each missed one meeting other senior executives prior to to integrate risk management because of conflicting business determining their remuneration.
The procedures into the Groups operations, engagements.
remuneration of the non-executive to extend awareness of the importance During the year the Board undertook directors is determined by the Board of of the management of risk and to an evaluation of its performance and Directors as a whole.
No director plays a ensure that recommended the performance of its committees and part in the discussion about his own improvements brought to the attention the individual directors.
of the Board are implemented.
In 2006, engaged Egon Zehnder to facilitate this The Remuneration Report is set out the different risks affecting the Group process.
The process took the form of on pages 47 to 54. were reviewed with the responsible interviews with each director and the director or senior executive, and Company Secretary separately, focussing 3.
Accountability and audit improvements made in the methods of on a number of areas pertinent to the A review of the performance of the identifying and evaluating these risks, 43 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 44 CORPORA TE GOVERN ANCE and of recording risk management together, attended a number of approving the financial statements that measures, and in the reporting on those meetings with analysts, and with there is a reasonable expectation that risks.
The effectiveness of these changes shareholders representing circa 64 per the Company and the Group have was reviewed during 2006, and certain cent of the issued share capital.
The adequate resources to continue in improvements to the process were senior independent director also operational existence for the foreseeable made.
In particular, senior executives attended a number of such meetings in future.
For this reason, they continue to are asked, twice a year, to confirm the 2006.
The Chairman, Chief Executive adopt the going concern basis in adequacy of internal controls in their and Finance Director report fully to the preparing the financial statements.
areas of responsibility, identify any Board on any meetings with control weaknesses, and to confirm the shareholders or analysts.
In addition, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE accuracy and completeness of written reports about the Company by COMPLIANCE STATEMENT information given to directors and to analysts or brokers are circulated to all The Company is pleased to report that it the external auditors.
has complied throughout the year In conjunction with the Audit As well as sending annual and ended 31 December 2006 with the Committee, the Board has carried out an interim reports to shareholders, the provisions set out in Section 1 of the annual review of the overall effectiveness Company normally issues trading Code, except: of the system of internal control and risk statements at the Annual General B2.1 The Remuneration Committee did management procedures, during the Meeting and around the year end.
All not consist wholly of independent nonyear and up until the date of approval of shareholders receive at least twenty executive directors as the Chairman is the annual report.
working days notice of the Annual one of its members.
The Board has General Meeting at which all directors noted that this will be permissible under Audit committee and auditors are available for questions and a short the revised Code which will apply for the The report of the Audit Committee is set business presentation takes place.
Each financial year ending 31 December 2007. out on pages 45 and 46. substantive issue is the subject of a In any event, the Board considers it to separate resolution.
The numbers of be very important that the Chairman is 4.
Relations with shareholders proxy votes for and against each closely involved in the establishment The Company encourages two-way resolution are announced at the and application of the Companys communication with both its meeting, after the voting has taken remuneration policy.
institutional and private investors and place, and are subsequently published C3.1 Pending the appointment to the responds promptly to all enquiries on the Companys website.
Board of Stephen Carter in April 2006, received orally or in writing.
During the the Audit Committee only consisted of year the Chairman, the Chief Executive, GOING CONCERN two independent non-executive directors the Chief Operating Officer and the After making enquiries, the Directors between January and April 2006.
Finance Director, either separately or have formed a judgement at the time of 44
