36 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Directors Governance.
This statement, together with the Directors Report and There are currently nine directors: Chairman, Sir Ian Gibson: Chief the Remuneration Report set out on pages 40 to 48, describes how Executive, Sly Bailey: Senior Independent Director, Peter Birch: two the Company has applied the relevant principles of the July 2003 other executive directors: and four other non-executive directors.
The Board believes that the Company directors biographies are set out on page 34 and illustrate the complies with most of the Code.
Any exceptions are fully explained.
directors breadth of experience, which should ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups Gary Hoffman will assume the role of Senior Independent Director operations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to following the AGM in 2007. itself, including the Groups strategic plans, acquisitions or disposals, capital expenditure, all financing matters, annual operating plan and The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief budget and our operating and financial performance.
The Board Executive has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
meets regularly and a schedule of attendance is shown on page 39.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms.
Before a nonThe Board also delegates specific responsibilities to committees, executive director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the each of which has clear written terms of reference, as described Nomination Committee meets to consider whether his or her below.
The Board did not believe that it was necessary to use performance continues to be effective and whether they demonstrate external resources to review its performance during 2006 but chose a commitment to the role.
The committee meets at least once a year to evaluate its own performance, that of its committees and of its to review the performance of the Chairman.
directors through an extensive questionnaire sent to each director.
This was a process that it had adopted in 2004 and 2005, having The Board believes that all its non-executive directors are used the services of external consultants in 2003. independent.
Sir Angus Grossart was, until April 2005, non-executive Vice Chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland, which is one of the In 2005 the form of the questionnaire and the detail of the process Companys commercial bankers.
As Sir Angus had no executive itself was reviewed and amended following advice from the powers in either company and is not involved in the consideration of independent consultant Dr Tracy Long, of Boardroom Review.
The the commercial terms of the relationship, the Company does not questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman and Secretary and believe that this former connection affects his independence.
Group Legal Director, and a report of findings distributed to each director and discussed at a meeting of the Board.
The Board was Gary Hoffman is Group Vice Chairman of Barclays and is an broadly satisfied with its performance and an action plan was created Executive Director of Barclays Plc.
Although the Company has for those areas for which it believed improved processes could connections with Barclays, its relationships are in areas outside of Mr be introduced.
Hoffmans direct control and the Board does not believe that they will affect his independence.
Following a Corporate Governance review in 2003 it was agreed that all non-executive directors should serve as members of the Every director is subject to re-election by shareholders every three Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
An assessment is made of any training needs on a directors believes that an increasing amount of work is undertaken by these appointment and the appropriate training provided.
All directors have Committees and that a non-executive director can only properly fulfil access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their his or her responsibilities if they are present during committee duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the meetings and are able to follow the detail of discussion and debate Companys expense.
Similarly the Chairman, in addition to chairing the Nomination Committee, is a full member of the Remuneration The Board believes that the Chairman was independent at the date Committee and attends meetings of the Audit Committee at the of his appointment.
The Chairman has declared to the Company his other significant As a result of this policy it has been said that the Company does not commitments, which are his non-executive directorships of GKN plc, comply with certain parts of the Combined Code in that the Northern Rock plc and Greggs plc.
The Board believes that he Chairman serves on the Remuneration Committee.
The Board notes devotes sufficient time to the Company to properly and fully fulfil his that the Financial Reporting Council has recognised this issue and responsibilities.
that the amended Combined Code made allowance for Chairmen to serve on Remuneration Committees.
During 2007 the Board proposes to review whether its policy remains appropriate.
com governance committee Audit Committee The Remuneration Report set out on pages 40 to 46 contains a more The Audit Committee is chaired by Peter Birch.
Sir Angus Grossart, detailed description of the Companys policies and procedures for Gary Hoffman, David Ross and Laura Wade-Gery are members.
The Chief Executive, the Secretary and Committee meets to review the Groups interim and annual financial Group Legal Director and Group HR Director and Head of statements before their submission to the Board, to review the Compensation and Benefits, as appropriate, attend meetings of appropriateness and effectiveness of its internal controls, accounting the Committee but they do not participate in discussions on their policies and procedures and financial reporting, and otherwise own remuneration.
There is an internal audit function to enhance the rolling programme of review and improvement to the Groups The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are internal controls.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the published on the Companys website.
effectiveness of internal audit activities.
Nomination Committee David Ross is a Chartered Accountant and was Finance Director The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
All the nonof Carphone Warehouse.
Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and executive directors and the Chief Executive are members.
The Gary Hoffman each have extensive experience in the financial Committee meets as required to select and propose to the Board services industry.
suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as directors.
The Committee would normally expect to use the services Kathleen ODonovan, a Chartered Accountant, will become of professional external headhunters to help in the search for and Chairman of the Audit Committee following the AGM in 2007. selection of candidates.
It followed this practice in the case of Sir Ian Gibson and Laura Wade-Gery.
The Committee has formal written The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external terms of reference which are published on the Companys website.
auditors and the internal auditors, as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee has formal written terms of reference Administration Committee which are published on the Companys website.
The website and the The Administration Committee consists of the Chief Executive, Companys intranet also carry details of the Companys Group Finance Director and Secretary and Group Legal Director and whistleblower policy, which has been approved and implemented meets as necessary to deal with administrative matters of a day-toby the Committee.
During the year the Committee, with the help of the Head of Internal Relations with shareholders Audit, followed a process to review and monitor the external auditors The Company encourages two-way communication with both its independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit institutional and private investors and responds quickly to all queries process.
An extensive questionnaire was sent to the Audit received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and the Group Committee, other Board members and senior operational and finance Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional managers across the Group.
The results were analysed by the Head shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting all directors, including of Internal Audit and a full report was submitted for review by the Audit Committee Chairmen, are available for questions.
There were no adverse findings.
The report as a whole, Director of Corporate Communications, who also runs the however, was discussed with the external auditors.
Private meetings Companys investor relations programme, produces a formal report were held with Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure there were no for the Board giving details of comment and feedback received from restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items that analysts and institutional investors.
He is present during the Board the auditors did not wish to raise with management present.
Following his appointment as Chairman, Sir Ian Gibson held meetings with a number of the Companys The Committee reviewed the letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP large shareholders.
Communication is also made through the confirming their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed the website, which is regularly updated.
scope of non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there was no impairment of objectivity.
The Board has Accountability and audit accepted the Committees recommendation on a policy on the Operating and financial review engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial position in the Chairman and Chief Executives statement page 4, Remuneration Committee and the Business Review page 8, together with the Directors The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Gary Hoffman.
Sir Ian Report page 47, the Board seeks to present a balanced and Gibson, Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart, David Ross and Laura understandable assessment of our position and prospects.
The Committee meets as required The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described during the year to review the Companys general policy on executive on page 47. remuneration, the application of the policy to the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
38 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Internal control Functional reporting a number of our key functions, including Internal financial control treasury, taxation, internal audit and risk management, litigation, IT The directors are responsible for the Groups established system of strategy and development, environmental issues and insurance, internal financial control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
During the are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions reports to the review the Board has not been advised of any failings or weaknesses Board on a regular basis, through the Chief Executive, Group which were deemed to be significant.
No system of internal financial Finance Director or Secretary and Group Legal Director, as control can provide absolute assurance against material misappropriate.
The treasury function operates within the terms of statement or loss.
Such a system is designed to provide the directors clearly defined policy statements.
The policy statements exist to with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely ensure that we are not exposed to any unnecessary risk and that basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key procedures that have where appropriate there is hedging against foreign currency and been established and designed to provide effective internal financial interest rate risks.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from control are: management, the internal audit department and the external auditors to provide reasonable assurance that control procedures Management and organisational structure the existing are in place and are being followed.
Formal procedures have been organisational structure is considered appropriate to the size of the established for instituting appropriate action to correct Group.
This clearly identifies levels of delegated responsibility to weaknesses identified from the above reports.
The performance of senior management is regularly evaluated and individual employees responsibilities are Risk management clearly defined and communicated An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks we face has remained in place throughout the Financial reporting part of the comprehensive management financial year and up to the approval date of the Annual Report and reporting discipline involves the preparation of detailed annual Accounts.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board budgets by all operating units.
These budgets are reviewed by the directly and via the Audit Committee.
executive management and are ultimately summarised and submitted to the Board for approval.
Weekly revenue and profit This accords with the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control for returns are received from all operating units followed by monthly directors, as applicable for this accounting period.
Although the management accounts, which are prepared promptly and reported Boards overall responsibility for internal control is recognised, the against the approved budget.
Consolidated monthly management positive contribution made by senior management to the accounts are prepared, including detailed profit analysis with establishment and ongoing development of risk management within comparisons to budget, latest forecasts, prior year and consensus the Group is acknowledged.
market opinion, and treasury report including comparison to our financial covenants, providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date In reviewing the effectiveness of our system of internal control, the financial and other information to the Board.
Revised profit and Board has taken into consideration a number of key elements, which cashflow forecasts for the current year are prepared and submitted include financial and investment controls, management reporting and to the Board at quarterly intervals during the year the various review, steering, policy and Board committees.
Investment appraisal we have a clearly defined framework for The following illustrate how the risk management process and the capital expenditure which is controlled centrally.
Appropriate system of internal control operated during the 52-week period ended authorisation levels and limits beyond which such expenditure 31 December 2006: requires the prior approval of the Capex Committee, consisting of the three executive directors and the Director of Group IT or, in Group internal audit The Head of Internal Audit has recruited a certain circumstances, the Board, are clearly set.
There is a skilled and experienced team to enable the agreed strategy to be prescribed format for capital expenditure applications which fulfilled.
The internal audit plan is risk-based and has a focus on places a high emphasis on the overall Group strategy or logic for those areas which are critical to the achievement of business the expenditure, and demands a comprehensive and sound objectives financial representation of the business case being put forward.
All significant corporate acquisitions or investments are controlled by the Board or a Board sub-committee and are subject to detailed investment appraisal and performance of due diligence procedures prior to approval by the Board 39 http: www.
com governance Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee includes the Corporate governance compliance statement review, update and approval of the annual internal audit plan: The Company has complied throughout the financial year with the provision of direction to the internal audit function, external provisions set out in the July 2003 FRC Combined Code, with the auditors and management in the review of internal controls: exception of the constitution of the Remuneration Committee alerting the Board to any emerging issues: and consideration of the Provision B2.1.
draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management procedures adopted by the Company prior to Going concern basis being submitted to the Board for approval After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable Risk Management Group The Risk Management Group is formed expectation that we have adequate resources to continue in of the Executive Committee together with invited senior operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Secretary and Group Legal Director has coordinated the risk management activities of the Risk Management For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern Group, working closely with members of the Internal Audit basis in preparing the financial statements.
The agreed objectives for the risk management framework have been achieved during the year and the action Table of attendance of meetings plans for all significant risks have been reviewed Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee AGM Divisional and Group functional key risks To enable consistent and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation and management Number of of significant Group risks, the Executive Committee owner of meetings in the year 11341 each key risk and the relevant senior managers have documented Bailey 11331 the plans, actions and initiatives which have taken place or are underway Birch 11341 1 Blank 4121 Year-end compliance reporting A formal process exists for year- 2 Gibson 812 end risk management compliance reporting, requiring senior Grossart 11341 operating Company, divisional and Group executive management Hoffman 11241 to confirm their responsibilities for risk management and internal Ross 10341 control.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required of each and Vaghela 11 3 1 every Board member.
Vickers 11331 Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk 3 Wade-Gery 411 management further into the operations of the business and to deal 1 with areas of improvement which come to the attention of the Sir Victor Blank resigned from the Board on 4 May 2006.
2 Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2006. management and the Board.
The Groups systems of internal control 3 Laura Wade-Gery was appointed to the Board on 4 August 2006. are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and all then absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
serving members attended both meetings.
Further relevant information is included in the Corporate Responsibility Review, published on pages 26 to 31.
