Corporate governance year ended 31 December 2006 The Tullow Oil Board is committed to business integrity and high Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear separation of ethical values across the Groups activities.
As an essential part of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The division of this commitment, the Board supports high standards of corporate responsibilities is clearly established and has been set out in writing governance.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Chairman, Pat Plunkett, is responsible for the effective running This report explains how the Company has applied the principles set of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy, Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
It also discloses and acting as guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision-making the extent to which the Company has complied with the detailed process.
The Chief Executive, Aidan Heavey, is responsible for managing The Board considers that the Company has complied with the the Groups business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board subsequently up to the date of this report with the following and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions two exceptions: of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with shareholders as Independent non-executive Directors did not comprise at least part of the Companys overall investor relations programme.
half the Board throughout the year as recommended by the Code.
The Board, whilst mindful of the Code requirement in this respect, Non-Executive Directors considers the current composition to be appropriate and effective Appointment Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term at the present time.
However, the Board does regularly review the of three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement subject Boards composition through its Nominations Committee.
The letters of appointment of each nonexecutive Director are available for inspection at the registered office.
Throughout 2006, Pat Plunkett, the Company Chairman, was a member and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Meetings of Non-Executive Directors In addition to their attendance The Board considers that his contribution to the Committees at Board and, as appropriate, Committee meetings, the non-executive work in the role of its Chairman has been a significant factor Directors also met formally on three occasions during 2006 without in developing the environment in which management has been executive management present.
At these meetings, the non-executive encouraged to perform strongly throughout the period of major Directors examine and review the performance of the executive growth enjoyed by the Company since 2000. management.
This review process is in part dealt with by the Board Committees referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Board of Directors Executive held informal meetings with the non-executive Directors to Composition During the year, the size of the Board was expanded discuss issues affecting the Group such as target objectives, strategy, from ten to twelve members so that, at the end of the year, and at the key performance indicators and remuneration matters etc.
The Board date of this report, the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, is of the view that each non-executive Director commits sufficient time six Executive Directors and five independent non-executive Directors.
to discharge their duties effectively.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
Together, the non-executive Directors bring a broad Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent non-executive range of business and commercial experience to the Board, with four Director is Rohan Courtney.
In this role he is available to shareholders of the five non-executive Directors either currently holding or having who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with previously held appointments in oil and gas companies or companies the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer or where such with energy interests.
Biographical details of the Board members are contact is inappropriate.
Independence The Board considers each of the current non-executive Role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the Directors to be independent in character and judgement and there are creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could long-term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and appear to affect the Directors judgement.
The Board recognises monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which that Rohan Courtney may not be considered independent on the enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
The Board sets basis that he has served on the Board since 1993.
Nevertheless, the the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary resources are Board considers that Mr Courtneys independence is not prejudiced or in place to achieve those aims, and reviews management and financial compromised by his length of service.
He has extensive knowledge of performance.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the Groups the Groups business and positively challenges management data and core values and standards of business conduct and for ensuring that assumptions.
Consequently he makes a major contribution as a nonthese, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are executive Director and the Board is proposing his re-election at the widely understood throughout the Group.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Corporate governance continued Election and re-election All new Directors are required by the Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at meetings Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at of the Board and its Committees during 2006 was as follows: the first AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Directors are Board Audit Remuneration Nominations subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
of Meetings 11 4 4 3 non-executive Director has served longer than nine years, it is Board Pat Plunkett 11 11 4 4 3 3 policy that the Director be subject thereafter to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
Aidan Heavey 11 11 3 3 David Bamford 11 11 3 4 3 4 3 3 How the Board operates Rohan Courtney 11 11 4 4 4 4 3 3 Board meetings The Board meets regularly during the year and on Tom Hickey 11 11 an ad hoc basis as required.
The attendance record of each Director 1 is shown in the table on this page.
During 2006, the Board met Angus McCoss 0 0 formally on 11 occasions including a formal strategy review meeting 2 Paul McDade 9 9 held with senior management in November.
In addition to the formal Steven McTiernan 11 11 4 4 4 4 3 3 meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain Graham Martin 11 11 frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of 3 Adrian Nel 4 4 concern they may have relating to the Group or as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on the Groups operations.
Matthew ODonoghue 11 11 Clare Spottiswoode 10 11 3 4 4 4 3 3 Information flow Directors have access to a regular supply of 4 David Williams 6 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 financial, operational and strategic information to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Such information is provided as part of the Notes: normal management reporting process.
Board papers are generally 1 Angus McCoss was appointed to the Board on 6 December 2006.
No Board meetings were held between the date of his appointment and the end of the year.
circulated seven days in advance of Board meetings.
In addition, 2 Paul McDade was appointed to the Board on 29 March 2006.
Board meetings generally include a review of the history, performance 3 Adrian Nel retired from the Board on 31 May 2006. and future potential of an individual asset or business unit: this is 4 David Williams was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2006. designed to ensure that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and to enable Board members to familiarise themselves Board performance evaluation The Board carried out an evaluation with the key assets and operations of the Group.
of its own performance and of its Committees in 2006.
This review focused on such matters as Board composition and strategic Independent professional advice All Directors and Committees capability, ongoing development, external and internal relationships, have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys risk management, and conduct of Board and Committee meetings.
expense, as and when required.
Overall, it was concluded that the Board continues to operate in an Insurance cover The Company maintains Directors and Officers effective manner and that there were no items arising from this review Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
that, in the Boards view, gave rise to material concern.
The Board is also satisfied that no individual or group of individuals dominates Matters reserved A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board the Boards decision making.
Certain matters for improvement were approval is in place and is reviewed annually.
The matters reserved identified from the results of the evaluation and a number of include amongst others : the Groups overall strategy, approval of actions agreed.
financial statements, material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts and major capital expenditure projects, budgets and a regular The Chairman has had discussions with each of the Directors on review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
Separately, the non-executive Directors Subject to these reserved matters, the Board delegates authority have reviewed the performance of the Chairman with input from the for the management of the business, primarily to the Chief Executive, Executive Directors.
the other Executive Directors and a Senior Executive Committee.
Certain other matters are delegated to the Audit, Nominations Induction All new Directors receive an induction.
This includes a visit to the principal offices of the Group to meet line management and Remuneration Committees, each of which is described in more detail below.
from each functional discipline and business unit.
The Company Secretary also provides new Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, corporate governance policies and established Board procedures as part of the induction process.
Continuing professional development All members of the Board have access to appropriate training in respect of their obligations and duties as Directors.
During the year, briefings were given on specific relevant topics to ensure Board members remain up to date with current regulations and developments.
These included corporate governance developments and the Companies Act 2006.
38 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Committees The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, The Board has established the following principal Committees, the Group Finance Manager and a representative of the external each of which has written terms of reference approved by the Board auditors normally attend meetings of the Audit Committee, at the setting out its authority and duties.
Copies of the terms of reference invitation of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board also attends can be viewed on the Investor Relations section of the Companys meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The external auditors have website www.
com or can be obtained from the Company unrestricted access to the Committee Chairman.
During 2006, the Audit Committee met on a total of four occasions.
Audit Committee The key work undertaken by the Committee was as follows: This Committee currently comprises Rohan Courtney Chairman, Consideration and review of annual and interim financial David Bamford, Steven McTiernan, Clare Spottiswoode and statements The Committee met with the external auditors as a David Williams.
part of the interim and final accounts approval process.
During this The main responsibilities of the Committee are: exercise the Committee considered the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or judgemental matters identified during Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal the audit, as well as any recommendations or observations made announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: by the external auditors.
Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting Audit planning and update on relevant accounting developments policies and disclosures in financial reports: Following the Groups adoption of IFRS in 2004 5, there were Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control limited further regulatory or financial accounting changes procedures and risk management systems: during 2006.
Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place: Consideration and approval of the internal audit charter, risk management framework and periodic reports from the Group Considering how the Groups internal audit requirements shall Internal Audit Manager In March 2006, Tullow recruited a Group be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board: Internal Audit Manager with extensive oil industry experience.
He Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment has direct access and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: and main responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency and risk Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditors, identification and management at operating, regional and corporate and where appropriate, the selection of new external auditors.
In fulfilling his role, the Group Internal Audit Manager has In June 2006, the membership and experience of the Committee regular access to the Committee without reference to executive was supplemented by the appointment of David Williams.
During 2006, the Committee approved the Group Chartered Accountant and was previously Finance Director of Bunzl Internal Audit Charter and a programme of internal audit work plc.
He is a non-executive Director of Meggitt PLC and George Wimpey aimed at addressing both financial and overall risk management plc and is a member of the audit committees of both companies.
objectives identified within the Group.
A number of internal audit Until 2006, he was a non-executive Director and Chairman of the audit reviews were undertaken during 2006, including an analysis of the committee of The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company controls and approvals surrounding the hedging activities, accounts plc.
In addition, between them, the other members of the Committee payable and the implementation of treasury management systems have a range of financial and commercial experience and have all within the Group.
The Group also undertook regular audits of nonserved on the Committee for a number of years.
Based on the above, operated joint ventures under the supervision of business unit the Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee has the appropriate management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
level of recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes Review of the performance of the external auditors During of the Code.
2006, the Audit Committee undertook a review of the performance The Groups external auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP and the of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Group Auditors.
Deloitte were Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services re-appointed following a tender process in 2004, since when Tullow they provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited has continued to expand both geographically and operationally.
The to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where Committee concluded that Deloitte continues to be an effective and the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the capable auditors for Tullow, demonstrating strong commitment and Group is necessary.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external industry knowledge.
auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 3 Acquisition of Hardman Resources As part of the acquisition of of the accounts on page 62.
In addition to processes put in place Hardman Resources, the overall audit approach to the Hardman to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit roles, as part of the acquisition and potential risks identified were approved by the assurance process in relation to the audit, Deloitte & Touche LLP Committee.
The Committee gave extensive consideration to the are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the preliminary fair value allocation exercise undertaken to record appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue the assets and liabilities acquired in Tullows Balance Sheet at to serve the members of the Company.
No matters of concern in 31 December 2006.
This transaction also required representatives relation to the above were identified by the Committee.
of the external auditors to undertake significant additional work, including a visit to Hardmans head office in Perth undertaken with Tullow Group Management.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee The CSR Committee comprises Graham Brunton, Head of EHS, The Committee comprises a majority of non-executive Rohan Courtney, Non-executive Director, Tom Hickey, Chief Financial Directors.
The current members of the Nominations Committee, Officer, Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer, Kevin Quinn, Business are Pat Plunkett Chairman, Aidan Heavey, Rohan Courtney, Unit Manager South Asia, Bill Torr, General Manager Cape Town Office Steven McTiernan, Clare Spottiswoode, David Bamford and and Caragh Whale, EHS Team Assistant David Williams.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are: The responsibilities of the CSR Committee are to: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board Develop and implement a framework for submission, assessment and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any and approval of discretionary and mandatory community, social changes required: and educational expenditure undertaken by Tullow Group-wide: Succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: Consider and propose an annual budget for CSR activities to the Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to fill Board for approval as part of the overall Group budget process: Board vacancies as and when they arise: Evolve and further develop Tullows social and ethical policies as Reviewing annually the time commitment required of non-executive part of the overall risk management framework of the business: Directors: and Prepare the CSR Report annually: Making recommendations to the Board with regard to membership Review the internal CSR programme, ensuring co-ordination of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the between internal and external activities and ensuring that the Chairman of each Committee.
internal CSR function is adequately resourced and has appropriate The Committee met three times in 2006, primarily to review Board standing within the Group: and appointment and succession issues.
On the recommendation of Consider other CSR matters as specified by the Board.
the Committee, the Board approved three appointments to the Board during the year.
In March 2006, Paul McDade, Chief Operating Shareholder relations Officer, was appointed as an Executive Director.
Following a Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there comprehensive search and interview process with the assistance is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well as general of external consultants, David Williams was identified as a very presentations to analysts at the time of the release of the annual suitable non-executive Director and following the Committees and interim results.
The Board receives regular investor relations recommendation, the Board approved his appointment with effect reports covering key investor meetings and activities, as well as from 1 June 2006, Angus McCoss, who had been appointed as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group issues its results General Manager Exploration in April 2006 was appointed as promptly to individual shareholders and also publishes them on the Exploration Director in December 2006 following a full review by Investor Relations section of the Companys website.
The Companys the Committee of his performance since joining the Company and website address is www.
Regular updates to record a positive recommendation by the Committee to the Board.
This news in relation to the Company and the status of exploration and position had previously been held by Adrian Nel who retired in development programmes are also included on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by email by registering online on the website.
Remuneration Committee The Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders This Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive to discuss any issues and address any concerns in relation to the Directors, namely Pat Plunkett Chairman, Rohan Courtney, David Companys governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors have Bamford, Steven McTiernan, Clare Spottiswoode and David Williams.
the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51 contains are available to attend if requested to do so.
details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee.
At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for the benefit Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of shareholders at which individual shareholders are given the In addition to the above principal committees, the Board has opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, the chairmen of the established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
This Audit, Nominations and Remunerations Committees and to other Committee the CSR Committee is responsible for managing members of the Board.
In addition, the Board is committed to all Tullows Community sponsorship support programmes and maintaining strong links with its significant Irish shareholder base considers any matters relating to social, charitable, community and holds a business presentation in Dublin following the AGM, and educational issues, CSR publications and CSR expenditure.
to allow these shareholders similar access to the Company.
Notice Tullows CSR strategy aligns CSR investment with key areas and of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before countries for business development.
Tullows CSR funding is a the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, combination of sponsorships under licence commitments and together with abstentions, are made available after the vote has been discretionary spending.
Criteria for funding projects concentrate dealt with on a show of hands.
on children, education and, where appropriate, fulfilling basic needs, Internal controls such as clean water.
Projects considered will be mainly recurring, The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups long-term investments where there is established production, an and the Companys systems of internal control, which are designed operated activity and or a key country for development.
One-off to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of investment will also be considered as appropriate in the context financial information for both internal use and external publication.
Overall, Tullows objective is to make a tangible, The Groups internal control procedures require technical, financial positive difference and to foster and support longer-term development and Board approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require and self-sustaining enterprise in local communities.
senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each 40 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting Management and bottom-up originating from business units system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of and operations processes, facilitated by the Groups Internal Audit the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures function under the ultimate supervision of the Audit Committee.
for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that The objective of this exercise is, in the first instance, to identify relevant face the Group.
During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager risks and the individual, team or function within the organisation with reviewed a number of areas of risk with his findings reported to the ultimate responsibility for managing them.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
of a risk, a qualitative assessment is made of its potential impact on Tullows business, the key controls operating to mitigate such a risk The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system and the overall effectiveness of the Groups monitoring and assurance of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk processes.
This analysis determines what, if any additional work is management, consider that the system of internal control operated required.
The development of risk management processes will effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which continue to ensure they remain relevant to the business.
the financial statements were signed.
The Groups principal risks are considered to fall into four Risk key categories: Tullow is exposed to a range of technical, geological, operational, political, environmental, health and safety and financial risks in Strategic Risks: The strategy developed by the Board may the conduct of its day-to-day business.
The Group seeks to manage not be appropriate for industry circumstances or the Groups and mitigate these risks by maintaining a balanced portfolio and, business environment and may fail to create shareholder value: through compliance with the terms of its licences, the application of Financial Risks: The combination of asset performance and established policies and procedures appropriate for an international excessive leverage may result in the Group being unable to oil and gas company and the recruitment and retention of skilled meet its obligations to shareholders, finance providers and personnel throughout its business.
other stakeholders: The Directors have ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness of the Operational Risks: Operational failures, either by Tullow or Groups risk management activities and internal control processes.
its partners, may damage the Groups shareholder value and Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and operational reputation, damage the environment or endanger not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be the health and safety of personnel or communities: and detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is External Risks: The overall external political, industry or market eliminated.
The Boards objective is to ensure Tullow has appropriate environment may negatively impact on the Groups ability to systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
independently manage and grow its business.
Tullows risk management processes were upgraded during 2006.
The individual risks within each category are summarised in the As part of its overall risk identification and management process, table below: Tullow undertakes both top-down driven by the Board and Senior Principal risks by category Strategic risks Financial risks Operational risks External risks Mix of oil and gas interests Excessive debt EHS incident Oil and gas price volatility Balance of organic and Inadequate or excessive hedging Key development failure Political risk and asset acquisition-led growth sequestration Inefficient capital allocation Oil and gas price volatility Corruption reputation risk Fiscal change mechanism Ineffective management processes Industry cost inflation Security incident Competitive forces Insufficient portfolio balance Mis-priced corporate acquisitions Failure to secure resources, Shareholder sentiment including staff Inadequate management processes Uninsured events Hostile acquisition Corporate governance failings Loss of key staff Succession planning Sustained exploration failure Lack of control of key assets Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman 23 March 2007 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41
