Report of the Directors continued Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal and independence could be compromised.
The Committee control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the reviewed the report from  on the actions external auditors performance, qualications and independence, they take to comply with the professional and regulatory and the performance of the internal audit function.
During the requirements and best practice designed to ensure their year ended 31 December 2006 the principal activities of the independence from Unilever.
The UK lead partner in charge of the Committee were as follows: audit, who was appointed in 2001, rotated off at the 2006 AGM and a new lead partner was appointed in May 2006, and assumed Financial statements responsibility for the audit of the 2006 accounts.
The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements and The committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts prior to publication.
tax and other services provided by , and compliance with Unilevers policy, which prescribes in detail the Audit of the Annual Accounts types of engagements for which the external auditors can and , Unilevers external auditors, reported in cannot be used: depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and statutory audit services as detailed above, including audit of control, and accounting developments.
subsidiaries: other audit services work which regulations or agreements Risk management and internal control arrangements with third parties require the auditors to undertake e. g. in The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk connection with borrowings and shareholder services: management and control, and its processes, outcomes and other services statutory auditors may carry out work that they disclosure, including specically: are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews: acquisition and disposal services where the auditors are best review of level of disclosure in quarterly financial results placed to do this work: announcements: tax services all significant tax consulting work is put to tender, review of accounting principles and judgements with respect except where the auditors are best placed to do this: and to financial statements: general consulting external auditors may not tender for review of managements risk assessments in relation to the NV general consulting work.
preference shares issued in 1999: Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of All engagements over 100,000 require specic advance approval Risk Management and Control, and managements response: of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The overall policy is regularly annual report from the Chief Financial officer on business risks and reviewed and updated in the light of internal developments, positive assurance on operating controls and corporate policies: and external developments and best practice.
a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards: the interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business The Committee held independent meetings with the external Principles Compliance Committee: auditors during the year.
monitoring the resolution of complaints received through the global Ethics hotline which included a procedure for handling Internal audit function complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the and auditing matters: Corporate Audit Departments audit plan for the year, and quarterly review of progress of the implementation of the approved its budget and resource requirements.
requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal controls over financial reporting: The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the review of the application of information and communication performance of the internal audit function and confirmed that technology: they were satisfied with their relationship with the Chief Auditor.
a review of the annual pension report and pensions related accounting and proposals: The Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor annual review of anti-fraud arrangements: during the year.
a review of tax planning policy: and review of treasury policies and consideration of proposals Audit Committee terms of reference relating to capital injection, debt issuance, investment hedge The Audit Committees terms of reference can be viewed on and dividends.
com or supplied on request.
In February 2006, the terms of reference were updated to reect External auditors requirements under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code that The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the the Audit Committee has oversight of the policy of the Group on effectiveness of the external audit process and carried out a formal tax planning, the nancing of the Group, and the applications of review of the appointment of external auditors in October 2006. information and communication technology.
The Committee has approved the extension of the current external audit contract by one year, and recommended to the Boards the The Audit Committee carried out a self-assessment of its own reappointment of the external auditors.
of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of  at the AGMs in May 2007 see pages 135 and 140.
Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee Wim Dik Charles Golden Byron Grote Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 63
