Report of the Directors continued Report of the Nomination Committee Composition Meetings of the Committee During 2006 the Nomination Committee comprised three The Committee met six times in 2006.
All but one meeting were Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of fully attended.
The Committee proposed the nomination of all Unilever.
David Simon chaired the Committee from 9 May 2006, Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGMs in 2006. taking over from Bertrand Collomb.
Other members in 2006 were In 2006, the Committee also proposed the nomination of four Jean-Cyril Spinetta, as from 9 May 2006, and Jeroen van der Veer new Non-Executive Directors.
The Joint Secretaries act as secretaries to the Committee.
These were Charles Golden, Byron Grote, Kees Storm and Jean-Cyril Spinetta.
They were chosen specically for their The Boards are of the view that it is appropriate that the financial and general business expertise.
The first three are Chairman is included as a member of the Committee on the members of the Audit Committee, with Kees Storm in the chair.
express condition that he does not participate in any discussion Jean-Cyril Spinetta is a member of the Nomination Committee of his own position.
Remit During the year the Committee conducted the search for a new The Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for the Chairman to succeed Antony Burgmans, who retires at the 2007 positions of Executive and Non-Executive Director, Chairman, AGMs.
The Committee followed a thorough process supported Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Committee by an independent consultant.
The process resulted in the is concerned with succession planning within the Boards.
The Committees recommendation to the Boards to nominate Michael Committee also has responsibility for oversight of all matters Treschow as Antony Burgmans successor.
The Committee is relating to corporate governance and brings any issues to the pleased to have identied an excellent candidate, who fully attention of the Boards.
The Committee uses the services of meets the criteria set for the Chairmans role.
Upon appointment recruitment consultants and other external experts.
The Boards Michael Treschow will be the first independent non-executive conduct a process of evaluation of their own performance each Chairman of Unilever.
This includes a review of each Board Committees performance.
The Committee has initiated the search process aimed at identifying candidates for the role of Chief Financial officer, The remit of the Committee and the information used by following the retirement of Rudy Markham at the 2007 it for succession planning are available on our website AGMs.
For this purpose an outside executive search rm www.
the website are the procedures for evaluation of the Boards and individual Directors.
The results of the evaluations are provided to Also with the support of independent consultants the Committee the Committee when it discusses the nominations for election as continued its search for new Non-Executive Directors to Directors, who offer themselves for re-election every year.
strengthen the Boards knowledge in IT and science as well as to increase representation from the D&E markets and enhance In nominating Directors to the Boards, the Committee follows an diversity of both background and expertise.
agreed Board Prole of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in The nominations of Genevieve Berger, Hixonia Nyasulu and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined Narayana Murthy are the result of this search.
Under the terms of the Governance of Unilever the Boards is of the view that they, if appointed, would be a very valuable should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors and the addition to the Boards composition.
Prole provides that three of these have strong financial experience, and staff the Audit Committee.
To represent Unilevers The Committee commissioned an outside consultant to support it areas of interest, the Prole also indicates there should be a in carrying out the 2006 evaluation of the Boards, the Chairman, strong representation from Developing and Emerging markets as the individual Directors and the Board Committees.
The results of well as from Europe and North America.
Non-Executives should this evaluation have been presented to and discussed by the be independent of Unilever and free from any conicts of interest.
The overall conclusion is that Boards and Board The Prole looks at diversity in terms of nationality, race, gender Committee performance is in line with that of its peer group.
and relevant expertise and directs that, wherever possible, the Boards should reect Unilevers consumer base.
David Simon Chairman of the Nomination Committee Antony Burgmans Jean-Cyril Spinetta Jeroen van der Veer 48 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
