Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance Introduction The Code of Business Principles is Unilevers statement of values and represents the standard of conduct we require from all of our Unilever constantly keeps its corporate governance arrangements employees.
Our Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, under review.
NV and PLC are subject to various corporate financial and accounting ofcers and comprises the standards governance requirements and best practice codes, the most prescribed by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
relevant being those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom The Code of Business Principles Hotline provides for a condential and the United States.
It is Unilevers practice to comply, where hotline, not only to ensure that employees can anonymously practicable, with the highest level of these codes and respond submit concerns regarding accounting and auditing issues but to to developments appropriately.
handle all alleged violations of the Code of Business Principles.
Copies of the Code of Business Principles, the Code of Ethics The Unilever Group and the Share Dealing Code are posted on our website at Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies www.
Together with the group companies, NV and PLC operate effectively as a single economic entity.
This is Our internal risk management and control systems are described achieved by a series of agreements between NV and PLC the on page 9.
Foundation Agreements, see page 39, together with special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
NV and Developments in corporate governance PLC have the same Directors and adopt the same accounting In recent years there have been significant developments in principles.
Shareholders of both companies receive dividends on Unilevers corporate governance structure.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting In 2004, the NV and PLC shareholders adopted proposals to consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever create one-tier boards with a majority of independent NonGroup are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective Executive Directors.
In 2005, shareholders approved a series of further changes to NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and ensure streamline management and leadership.
A separate Non-Executive that all group companies act accordingly.
NV and PLC are holding Chairman and Group Chief Executive were appointed.
The Group and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is Chief Executive established the Unilever Executive UEx which carried out by their subsidiaries around the world.
Shares in group comprises three Regional Presidents for Europe, The Americas companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC, or and Asia Africa, two Category Presidents for Foods and Home jointly by the two companies, in varying proportions.
and Personal Care, the Chief Financial officer and the Chief HR officer.
NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927.
Its objects and The regions are responsible for performance, implementing purposes are set out in Article 2 of its Articles of Association.
proven brand mixes and focusing on building capabilities with PLC was incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in customers.
The categories are responsible for the entire brand England and Wales in 1894.
Its objects and purposes can be development process, including innovation, brand positioning and found in Clause 3 of its Memorandum of Association.
The two communication and category strategies.
The interdependence companies have different shareholder constituencies and between the regions and categories allows us to exploit our shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one global scale, while building on our deep roots in local markets.
company for shares of the other.
NV is listed in Amsterdam and Our HR and Finance functions concentrate on excellence in New York.
PLC is listed in London and New York.
human capabilities and cost-efficiencies across the Group.
Unilever policies In 2006, following a thorough review of our corporate structure, The implementation of and compliance with our governance shareholders approved proposals to: structure is facilitated through a business orientated policy framework.
Unilever policies are characterised by being universally adapt Unilevers constitutional arrangements to allow greater applicable within the Unilever Group.
They are mandatory in exibility to allocate assets between both parent companies: effect and have been developed to ensure consistency in key areas within our worldwide operations.
They cover operational simplify the relationship between NV and PLC shares by and functional matters, and govern how we run our business, establishing a one-to-one equivalence in their economic interest in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
in the Unilever Group this was achieved by a split of the NV shares and a consolidation of the PLC shares : and Unilever policies include: the Code of Business Principles: the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Ofcers, the Compliance allow shareholders the right to nominate candidates to the Manual for the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Boards, taking into account the need to ensure the unity Rules including the Unilever Share Dealing Code, the Risk of management.
Management Policy, the Corporate Pensions Policy and the Accounting and Reporting Policy.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33
