VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 53 Corporate Governance Report Brief biographies of all of the Directors are set out on Introduction page 51.
The Board of Vedanta Resources plc believes that high standards of corporate governance are critical to ensuring The Board considers that all of the non-executive Directors business success.
The Board also believes that, in the are independent of the Group as defined by Code Provision interests of shareholders, the application of corporate A.
In making this assessment, the Board is aware that governance standards must reflect the nature and location of Messrs Mehta and Macdonald have held previous senior the Groups Businesses, the ownership of the Company and management positions within subsidiary companies of HSBC its subsidiaries, and the Groups development needs whilst Holdings plc, which acted as the joint global co-ordinator and ensuring the talents within the Group are utilised to their book runner at the time of the Companys Listing in fullest potential.
However, at the time of their appointments, the Board considered that neither Mr Mehtas nor Mr The objective of this report is to provide details of the Groups Macdonalds previous employments included the provision of governance policies, processes and structures and its corporate finance services in London by the HSBC Group and compliance with the principles of the Combined Code on thus they had no involvement with the Group prior to their Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting appointment and that the value of the business transacted Council the Code in July 2003. between the Company and the HSBC Group was less than 1% of the turnover of either organisation.
Directors The Board The Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors The role of the Board is to provide leadership to the Group in and the senior management within the Group who head the a manner which maximises opportunities to develop its Groups principal businesses and corporate functions, meets portfolio of businesses profitably whilst assessing and on a monthly basis to consider the operating performance of managing the associated risks.
The boards of individual each of the principal subsidiaries.
Mr Navin Agarwal is businesses are responsible for managing their businesses chairman of the Executive Committee.
The Executive profitably whilst controlling risks.
The Board assesses the Committee functions as a conduit for keeping the Board strategic objectives of each business, monitors performance, informed of significant issues and making recommendations ensures the availability of financial, management and other in relation to Group performance and developments.
Major resources required to meet the objectives, sets Group capital projects are reviewed by the Executive Committee standards of conduct and ensures that effective controls are prior to being submitted to the Board.
In addition, the in place to manage risk and that the interests of investors and Executive Committee monitors the implementation of action other stakeholders are observed.
plans in response to internal audit findings.
Board Composition The Chief Financial Officer, Mr DD Jalan, attends all The Board consists of an Executive Chairman, two Executive Board meetings.
Directors and four independent non-executive Directors.
During the year, there has been no new appointment to There are four Board Committees: Remuneration, Audit, the Board.
Nominations and Health, Safety and Environment.
Each has its own clearly defined terms of reference and reports The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for directly to the Board.
Additional information on the its consideration which was updated in June 2005 to ensure Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees is given that the Board is in a position to assess strategy, monitor below and, in the case of the Health, Safety and Environment performance and maintain effective controls whilst Committee, in the Sustainable Development Report on pages delegating operational management to the Executive 24 to 49.
Such matters reserved to the Board include, but are not limited to, approving Group Frequency of Meetings strategy and annual budgets, major capital expenditure, During the year, the Board has met six times for full major acquisitions and disposals.
scheduled meetings, the Audit Committee has met four times, the Remuneration Committee three times and the Board Balance and Independence Nominations Committee once.
Attendance of members at The Board comprises the following members: Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Mr AK Agarwal Executive Chairman Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Mr N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman 6 4 3 1 Mr KK Kaura Chief Executive Mr N Chandra N on-executive Director and Current Directors Senior Independent Director AK Agarwal 4 n a n a 1 Mr A Mehta Non-executive Director N Agarwal 6 n a n a n a Dr SK Tamotia Non-executive Director KK Kaura 6 n a n a n a Mr ER Macdonald Non-executive Director N Chandra 6 4 3 1 A Mehta 5 3 3 n a All four non-executive Directors served throughout the year SK Tamotia 6 n a n a 1 ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date of this report.
Each ER Macdonald 6 4 3 1 member of the Board receives information showing the Previous Director performance of the Group and its principal businesses with PE Sydney-Smith 2 1 n a n a the annual budget each quarter and is given a full Board pack with the agenda in advance of each Board meeting.
Resigned 3 August 2005 54 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Corporate Governance Report continued During the year, the Chairman held informal discussions with Relationship Agreement non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors At the time of Listing, the Company and Volcan, the majority being present.
Only members of a Board committee are shareholder, entered into a relationship agreement the entitled to attend the relevant committee meetings, although Relationship Agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship other Directors may attend Board committees at the between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship invitation of the relevant committee chairman.
Agreement is to ensure that the Group is able to carry on business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal family and Arrangements have been made for Directors to receive their associates.
Under the terms of the Relationship independent professional advice in the performance of their Agreement, the Board and Nominations Committee will at all duties at the Companys expense.
No Director took such times consist of a majority of Directors who are independent professional advice during the year.
of Volcan and the Agarwal family, whilst the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times comprise only nonDirectors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries executive Directors.
Volcan is entitled to nominate for are covered by directors and officers liability insurance.
appointment as Director such number of persons as is one The Company has a policy based on the Model Code published less than the number of Directors who are independent of in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings in securities and Volcan, the Agarwal family and their associates.
The Board applies to Directors and senior management.
A comprehensive considers these to be adequate safeguards in that insider list is maintained and all participants are notified of independent non-executive Directors make up a majority of close periods.
the Board and Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is protected by the Relationship Agreement.
The Notice concerning the forthcoming AGM is included with the accompanying Chairmans Letter.
This sets out full details Information and Professional Development of the resolutions being proposed to re-appoint Directors Appropriate induction is provided to all Directors on retiring by rotation.
The Board fully supports all the reappointment to the Board, and subsequently as necessary, appointment resolutions being put forward at the AGM.
taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
Directors undertake visits to operations and have Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director discussions with local management.
There is a clear division of the responsibilities between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for All Directors have access to the advice and services of the running the business.
In June 2005, the Board approved a Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for policy setting out the key responsibilities of the Executive ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
A clear separation is maintained between the responsibilities of the Executive All Directors have access to the Companys professional Chairman and the Chief Executive.
advisers whom they can consult where they judge it necessary in order to better discharge their responsibilities.
The Executive Chairman, as agreed by the Board, is primarily The Directors attend other update briefings in order to responsible for providing strategic leadership to the Board familiarise themselves with new regulatory requirements.
and further enhancing Vedantas exceptional growth pipeline.
Meanwhile, the Chief Executive, as agreed by the Board, is Nominations Committee primarily responsible for the leadership of the executive The Nominations Committee, which consists of Mr Anil Agarwal team, implementation of the Groups strategy, the chairman, Mr Chandra, Dr Tamotia and Mr Macdonald, reviews management of resources, the maintenance of a sound and makes recommendations to the Board concerning the control environment, setting budgets and managing structure, size and composition of the Board, and concerning performance within those budgets.
candidates for appointment as executive or non-executive Directors of the Company.
The terms of reference were Mr Naresh Chandra is Senior Independent Director SID.
His reviewed and updated by the Board in June 2005.
They are prime responsibilities are to lead discussions at meetings of available on request from the Company Secretary.
the non-executive Directors, provide an effective channel of communication between the Chairman and non-executive The Nominations Committee has a list of criteria to be applied Directors, ensure that the views of the non-executive in assessing potential new appointments to the Board and Directors are given due consideration and provide a point of this was used as part of the selection process for appointing contact for any shareholder who wishes to raise concerns new non-executive Directors during 2004 and 2005. which the normal channels of communication through the Chairman and Chief Executive have failed to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 55 Mr Kauras contract with the Company was due to expire on Accountability and Audit 30 June 2006.
The Nominations Committee, at its meeting on Financial Reporting 30 May 2006, extended his contract with the Company until 31 The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable March 2008.
This was approved by the Board on 31 May 2006. assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Statement of the Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Performance Evaluation Financial Statements is presented on page 66 and contains During the year, the Board commissioned a new Board a going concern statement as required by the Code.
evaluation process involving a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
This process involved each Director Board has considered the financial position of the Company completing a questionnaire exploring the workings, and the Group as shown in the Balance Sheet and the governance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2006, together and individual Directors.
This included the Directors providing with the other financial statements, the budget for the current the SID with feedback, within the questionnaire, on the year, the Groups business plans and the cash resources performance of the Executive Chairman during the year.
The available to the Group.
The Directors consider that the Chairman discussed the results individually with the Company and the Group will be able to meet their financial Directors and the SID discussed the Chairmans own commitments for the foreseeable future and that it is, performance evaluation with the Chairman.
A report of the therefore, appropriate for the Financial Statements to be overall results was presented to the Board and an action plan prepared on the going concern basis.
The Board will consider the style and frequency of future evaluation exercises.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Code requires the Group to maintain a robust system of Re-appointment internal control to safeguard shareholders interests and the Under the Companys Articles of Association, any Director Companys assets.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the appointed by the Board during the year must retire at the effectiveness of the system at least annually and to report to annual general meeting following his or her appointment.
shareholders that they have done so.
The revised guidance In addition, the Articles of Association require that at least issued by the Turnbull Review Group in October 2005 one-third of the remaining Directors retire by rotation and Turnbull Guidance sets out how listed companies are seek re-appointment.
Accordingly, Mr Anil Agarwal and expected to comply with the relevant sections of the Code.
Dr Tamotia will retire at the forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-appointment to the Board.
A formal risk management programme, facilitated with the help of external advisers, was introduced in 2004 for identifying, Remuneration Committee evaluating and managing risk.
Risks were categorised according The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Chandra to likelihood and impact, and strategies devised for addressing chairman, Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald, all of whom are significant risks identified during the review process.
The terms of reference resultant risk matrix is reviewed by the Audit Committee twice which were reviewed and updated by the Board in June 2005, a year in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the The Groups internal audit activity is managed through the Board, for setting the remuneration policy and remuneration Management Assurance Services function and is an packages for the Executive Directors and for maintaining an important element of the overall process by which the Board awareness of the overall remuneration of the key operational obtains the assurance it requires to ensure that risks are and financial heads within the Group the Senior being properly identified, managed and controlled.
provides assurance on the effectiveness of relevant internal controls.
The scope of work, authority and resources of the The Remuneration Report, which is presented on pages 58 to Management Assurance Services function are periodically 62, sets out the remuneration policy and other disclosures reviewed by the Audit Committee and its work is supported by concerning the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The the services of leading international accountancy firms but Remuneration Report will be submitted for approval at the specifically not including the Groups external auditors.
Audit Committee has, during the year, reviewed the level of internal audit resources within the Group and believes that it is appropriate to the Groups size.
56 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Corporate Governance Report continued Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place Group policy, which is approved by the Board, relating to all procedures to ensure that sufficient internal controls are aspects of funding, management of interest rate and foreign maintained.
These procedures include a monthly meeting of exchange exposures, and co-ordinates relationships with the relevant management committee and a quarterly meeting banks, rating agencies and other financial institutions.
The of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
These committees Treasury Committee monitors all significant treasury are appointed by the board of directors of each relevant activities undertaken by Group companies and ensures subsidiary.
A monthly report detailing the Groups cash debt position, bank covenants, exposures and The responsibilities of the Management Assurance Services hedging is circulated to the Executive Committee.
function include recommending improvements in the control environment and ensuring compliance with the Groups Financial Reporting Systems procedures and policies.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, which is reviewed and modified as circumstances require.
A formal policy and process for reviewing the effectiveness of Procedures include detailed operational budgets for the the Management Assurance Services function was approved year ahead which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
by the Audit Committee in June 2005.
At that time, it was also Budgets and forecasts are prepared using conservative agreed that the Audit Committee should ordinarily conduct and consistent assumptions, and these are continuously this review at its March 2006 meeting prior to agreeing the reviewed.
Performance against key performance indicators internal audit plan for the following financial year.
is monitored throughout the financial year and forecasts Consequently, the Audit Committee has conducted this review updated with reference to information on key risk areas.
and issues arising both from this review and the external In addition, monthly management reports are prepared audit have been incorporated into the internal audit plan.
both on a divisional and consolidated basis.
These are presented to the Executive Committee.
The planning of internal audit is approached from a risk perspective.
For internal audit purposes, the Group is divided Audit Committee and Auditors into three auditable groupings, namely: manufacturing The Audit Committee consists of Mr Mehta chairman, operating entities, special projects and other entities.
In Mr Chandra and Mr Macdonald, all of whom are independent preparing an internal audit plan, reference is made to the non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that Mr Mehta risk matrix referred to above, inputs sought from senior has the required recent and relevant financial experience by management and project managers, and reference made virtue of his previous full-time role at HSBC Bank and to past audit experience and financial analysis.
In broad through his experience on the audit committees of other terms, manufacturing operating entities are audited on a international companies.
Mr Chandra, who chaired the monthly basis and administrative units and head office on Government of Indias Committee on Corporate Governance, a quarterly basis.
has a deep understanding of corporate governance issues in general and of the Indian environment in particular.
During This process is designed to manage rather than, in all his career, Mr Macdonald has held senior positions in banking instances, eliminate the risk of failing to achieve the Groups and financial services.
As such, the process can only provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance against material The terms of reference were reviewed and updated by the misstatement or loss.
Board in June 2005 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference incorporate the The Management Assurance Services function was awarded various provisions set out in provisions C. 3.2 to C. 3.6 of the the Recognition of Commitment award by the Institute of Code.
Its activities in these areas are explained in more detail Internal Auditors IIA Florida, USA, in December 2005. in the following paragraphs.
In addition, the main subsidiary The award recognises internal audit departments which companies, which are listed on stock exchanges in India, have are able to demonstrate an ongoing commitment to their own audit committees in accordance with local corporate improving the quality of internal auditing in the areas of governance requirements.
By monitoring their discussions and professional excellence, quality of service and professional findings, the Audit Committee gains further insights into the outreach.
Vedantas Management Assurance Services quality of financial reporting and internal control.
function was one of only 26 internal auditing departments in the world which received this award in 2005, and one of 158 The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for since the awards inception.
its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Treasury Committee Committee ensures that these arrangements allow A Treasury Committee has been established as a sub-committee proportionate and independent investigation of such matters of the Executive Committee.
The Treasury Committee recommends and appropriate follow-up action.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 57 The Audit Committee met four times during the year under The interim and annual reports are the primary means of review, its meetings also being attended by senior communicating with all shareholders.
Financial reports, management from the Groups principal operating press releases and other information about Vedanta are subsidiaries and the auditors, as required.
During the year, available on the website www.
the Audit Committee discharged the responsibilities described above.
Its activities included: Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting formally reviewing the draft annual report, the interim This years AGM will be held on 2 August 2006 at 3.00pm, at statement and the IFRS restatement: the Mayfair Conference Centre, 17 Connaught Place, Marble considering the effectiveness of the internal audit function Arch, London W2 2EL.
The Notice of Meeting will therefore and risk management process: be circulated more than 20 working days before the meeting.
reviewing the external audit engagement, scope and An update will be provided on trading performance and strategy: shareholders will be given the opportunity to ask questions.
reviewing and monitoring the external auditors The Company will announce the numbers of proxy votes independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the cast for, against or abstaining for each resolution and will audit process: make the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and keeping under review the level of non-audit fees compared Nominations Committees available to answer questions to audit fees paid to the external auditors: from shareholders.
giving pre-approval to non-audit work carried out by the external auditors: and Statement of Compliance with Combined Code in response to the requirements of International Standards The Board has sought to achieve the standards of corporate on Auditing that auditors report instances of fraud, governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code and believes reviewing the Groups procedures for identifying and that the Company complied with the provisions of the Code dealing with cases of fraud.
throughout the year ended 31 March 2006, except as follows.
During the year, a policy was implemented on the provision of First, as previously reported, the Executive Chairman, Mr Anil services by the external auditor.
Under this policy, the Audit Agarwal, did not, on appointment, meet the independence Committee has agreed a scope of services which the external criteria because he was previously the Chief Executive of the auditors are permitted to deliver to the Group.
The policy also Company and, through Volcan Investments Ltd, he and his specifies which services are prohibited.
This ensures that the family have a controlling interest in Vedanta Code Provision independence of the external auditors are thereby A.
Mr Agarwal, founder of Vedanta, has built the safeguarded.
Group from its inception in 1976.
The Board believes that his knowledge, experience and energy are invaluable to the Relations with Shareholders Executive Chairmans role of setting a vision for the Group, Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders creating business opportunities and providing leadership.
The Board recognises that meetings with analysts and Furthermore, Mr Agarwals appointment in March 2005 shareholders constitute an important element of the as Executive Chairman, allowed him to step back from Companys investor relations programme.
Meetings take operational management and focus on turning new place with major investors either individually or on a group opportunities into value-creating projects, thereby basis, as required.
These meetings may be initiated either further extending the Groups exceptional growth pipeline by the Company or analysts and investors, and are managed into the future.
at Group level through the Associate Director-Investor Relations, Mr Sumanth Cidambi, who also briefs the Board Finally, pursuant to the Relationship Agreement and as on the Companys relationships with its shareholders.
disclosed at the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee The Company announces its annual and half-year results to therefore works collaboratively with Volcan over making the London Stock Exchange and the press in advance of the appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from publication of the annual and interim reports.
Summary the process set out in Code Provision A.
4.1. reports are also published for the first and third quarters.
Other price-sensitive information is announced as and when appropriate and the Board has adopted a communications policy to ensure that this is done in a timely and considered manner.
Presentations are made to analysts and the press by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive following the release of the interim and preliminary announcements.
