Corporate Governance judgement to all aspects of the Companys strategic development Code principles and performance.
The role of the non-executive Directors is viewed Introduction as especially important in reviewing business strategy and assisting This report describes how the corporate governance principles set the Board in the development of strategy.
The non-executive Directors out in the Combined Code are applied by the Company.
The role also review and monitor the Companys financial controls and risk of the Board is collectively to provide clear and effective leadership management systems.
The non-executive Directors have a key of the Company by setting strategic objectives and providing the role in scrutinising management performance and the Companys highest values and standards for the conduct of the Companys system for monitoring and reporting performance.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that sufficient responsibility for determining appropriate remuneration levels and resources are available to achieve the Companys objectives, for succession planning for the executive Directors.
The Chairman ongoing review of management performance and for ensuring that meets with the non-executive Directors at least annually in order a framework of prudent and effective controls is in place to enable to facilitate the non-executive Directors contribution to the Board.
risks to be properly assessed and managed.
The Company did not have a nominated Senior Independent Director during the period to 26 February 2007 but continues Board of Directors to keep this requirement under review.
The Directors of the Company during the period 1 January 2006 to 26 February 2007 are listed below: The Board meets a minimum of six times each year and more Jean-Pierre Bizet frequently when business needs require.
All Directors attended all Alun Cathcart Chairman Board meetings, except that Lesley Colyer and Axel von Ruedorffer Lesley Colyer each missed one meeting.
The Chairman of each of the Nominations Les Cullen Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee Roland DIeteren attended the 2006 Annual General Meeting and were available to Benoit Ghiot answer shareholders questions during and after the meeting.
Murray Hennessy Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and Malcolm Miller their respective responsibilities are dened in writing and Simon Palethorpe approved by the Board.
The Chairmans key areas of activity Dr Axel von Ruedorffer are the leadership of the Board, including setting its agenda, Pierre Alain fide Smedt appointed 1 February 2007 ensuring that it receives clear, accurate and timely information Martyn Smith and facilitating the contribution of the non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is responsible for strategy, in particular for ensuring Pierre Alain fide Smedt was appointed as a non-executive Director that effective plans are developed for the short-term and long-term with effect from 1 February 2007.
In accordance with the Articles development of the Group.
In co-ordination with the Chief Executive, of Association he will retire at the forthcoming Annual General the Chairman is responsible for encouraging close and effective Meeting and being eligible will stand for election.
Alun Cathcart, working relationships between all levels of operating country, Murray Hennessy and Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen retire by licensee and Group level management.
The Chairman is also rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being responsible for corporate governance and for ensuring that the eligible, will stand for re-election.
Company maintains effective communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Chairman also chairs the Nominations As at 26 February 2007, the Board of Directors comprises the Committee and has responsibility for ensuring that the Board Chairman, five executive Directors and a further seven non-executive evaluation processes are carried out and their results acted upon.
The non-executive Directors include four Directors who have no other association with Avis Europe plc and are therefore To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access regarded as independent, being Les Cullen, Malcolm Miller, Axel is given to all relevant information.
The Board retains powers of von Ruedorffer and Pierre Alain fide Smedt.
Malcolm Miller was decision on all matters of strategy, together with all significant reappointed for a third successive term of three years with effect commercial issues, including acquisitions and investments and from 21 February 2007, the Board having given due consideration capital expenditure in excess of a specified level.
The Company to this reappointment in light of the current circumstances of the Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are Company in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
followed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all A further two of the non-executive Directors, Roland DIeteren and matters of governance.
All Directors have access to the Company Benoit Ghiot, in addition to one executive Director, Jean-Pierre Bizet, Secretary whenever they require.
In the event that any Director are appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. which has a shareholding of wishes to take independent professional advice on any point arising 59.6% in the Company.
The obligations of the Directors appointed in connection with the exercise of their duties, in accordance with by s. a. DIeteren n. v. and of s. a. DIeteren n. v. as a shareholder, are written procedure the Company Secretary will arrange this at the set out in a Relationship Agreement entered into at otation in 1997.
The Company Secretary may only be removed These include an obligation for the DIeteren-appointed Directors by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
to exercise their voting rights so as to maintain the independence of the Board as required by the Listing Rules, thus ensuring that all Details of all Directors remuneration and service contracts are set Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 39.
The other non-executive Director, Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen, is a former executive Director of the Company.
Since 1998 the Board Board Committees has adopted a policy that, notwithstanding the provisions of the The Board Committees in place during 2006 were the Nominations Articles of Association, all Directors should stand for election at Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and Each Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness re-election at least every three years thereafter.
annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The terms of reference of each Committee are The Company considers that the non-executive component of the available on the Companys website at www.
Board helps to provide an effective Board with a strong mix of industry-specic knowledge and general commercial experience.
This balance enables the Board to bring informed and independent Avis Europe plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Nominations Committee ensures that the Company has a The members of the Remuneration Committee as at 1 January 2006 formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of were Malcolm Miller Chairman, Les Cullen, Roland DIeteren and new Directors.
The Committee regularly reviews the structure and Axel von Ruedorffer.
The Committee comprises three independent composition of the Board to ensure the required blend of skills and non-executive Directors together with Roland DIeteren.
The experience appropriate to the Companys needs.
It sets objective Company recognises that Roland DIeteren is not regarded as an criteria in recommending appointees to the Board, including being independent non-executive Director but considers it essential that satisfied that appointees have sufficient time available to devote s. a. DIeteren n. v. as the majority shareholder of the Company, to the role, especially for chairmanships.
The Committee is also is represented on the Committee.
As Chairman of s. a. DIeteren responsible for ensuring that induction and training requirements are n. v. Roland DIeteren abstains from discussion and voting on the met both for new Directors and for the Board as a whole to ensure remuneration of any Directors appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. that Directors regularly update their skills and knowledge, including pursuant to the Relationship Agreement referred to above.
their knowledge of developments in the Companys business.
The There were no changes to the composition of the Remuneration Committee carries out an annual review of the succession plans for Committee between 1 January 2006 and 26 February 2007. the Board and for senior executives across the Group to ensure that continuing management capability is available to match the The Remuneration Committee met seven times during 2006 and all development needs of the business.
members attended all meetings except that Axel von Ruedorffer was unable to attend one meeting.
During 2006, the Nominations Committee reviewed key succession priorities and approved a number of appointments and changes to The Remuneration Report to shareholders appears on pages 32 to 39. the central team and in different business units.
The review also looked at the overall structure and development needs of the Board The Audit Committee assists the Board by ensuring that the and identied the skills, knowledge and experience required from an Company presents a balanced and understandable assessment additional independent non-executive Director to complement and of its position with regard to financial reporting, including interim, enhance those already existing on the Board.
The non-executive preliminary and other formal announcements relating to the Groups Directors were able to recommend a suitable candidate without the financial performance.
Nominations Committee appointing external recruitment consultants.
The candidate then met with the Chairman of the Nominations Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the Committee, two non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
integrity of the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness A formal recommendation was then made to the Board, which and independence of the external audit process.
It is responsible for culminated in the appointment of Pierre Alain fide Smedt.
The members ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and of the Nominations Committee as at 1 January 2006 were Alun the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit Cathcart Chairman, Les Cullen, Roland DIeteren, Malcolm Miller and services and fees.
It also reviews annually the Groups system of Axel von Ruedorffer.
As recommended by the Combined Code, the internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating risks membership of the Committee comprised a majority of independent facing the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the non-executive Directors.
Pierre Alain fide Smedt became a member internal audit and risk management function and is responsible for of the Nominations Committee with effect from 1 February 2007. approving, upon the recommendation of the Group Finance Director, There were no other changes to the composition of the Nominations the appointment and termination of the Director of that function.
Committee between 1 January 2006 and 26 February 2007.
In 2006 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: The Nominations Committee met four times during 2006 and all reviewing and approving, prior to Board approval, the interim members attended the meetings except that Axel von Ruedorffer results statement, the Groups draft annual Financial Statements, was unable to attend one meeting.
the internal control report and the external auditors report: The Remuneration Committee determines broad policy on senior considering, prior to release, all trading updates: executive remuneration and terms of service and approves specic reviewing regularly the appropriateness of the Groups terms of appointment for the Chairman, executive Directors and accounting policies and their compliance with appropriate senior management.
The Committee is also responsible for the International Financial Reporting Standards: structuring and allocation of the Groups share incentive schemes, including the setting of appropriate performance targets.
Details receiving and considering a report on the Groups systems of of the advisers used by the Committee during 2006 are set out internal control and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on page 32 of the Remuneration Report.
on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control: In setting policy, the Committee ensures that appropriate incentives examining reports on Group-wide risk matters and assessing are provided to attract, retain and motivate executives of the the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system: appropriate calibre, to encourage performance and, in a fair and responsible manner, to reward individual contributions to the Group.
reviewing the internal audit and risk management functions The Committee takes account of market practice, the Groups terms of reference and its proposed annual audit programme, position relative to other companies and the pay and employment and receiving regular progress reports on its work: conditions of other Group employees.
The Committee consults assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk with the Chairman and or Chief Executive, as appropriate, when management function together with their resources determining the individual remuneration package of each executive and standing in the Group: Director.
However, no Director is involved in deciding his her own remuneration.
The Committee reviews the terms of the executive conducting the annual review of the Audit Committees Directors service contracts, particularly with regard to notice periods, terms of reference and effectiveness: termination payments and compensation commitments in the event reviewing the effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements: of early termination.
The activities of the Committee during the year are described in the Remuneration Report on page 32. considering and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors during the year: Avis Europe plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued appraising the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups Share capital Financial Statements, including key areas of scope and key areas The last Annual General Meeting authorised the Company to purchase of risk: and up to 92,052,404 of its own ordinary shares.
This authority will expire, and is due to be renewed, at the next Annual General Meeting.
The assessing external auditors effectiveness and independence, and Company has made no purchase of its own shares during 2006 making recommendations to the Board regarding their reappointment.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The members of the Audit Committee as at 1 January 2006 were Les Cullen Chairman, Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer.
Substantial shareholdings As recommended by the Combined Code, all the members of the At 26 February 2007, the Company had been advised of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Pierre Alain following notiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital: fide Smedt became a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 February 2007.
There were no other changes to the % of issued share capital composition of the Committee between 1 January 2006 and DIeteren Invest s. a.
52.68 26 February 2007. s. a. DIeteren n. v. 6.91 Fidelity International Limited 9.20 The Audit Committee met five times in 2006 and all members attended all meetings except that Malcolm Miller was unable to Prudential plc 7.33 attend one meeting.
The Committee meets with executive Directors Franklin Resources, Inc 3.37 and senior management, as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
As noted above, an agreement governing the relationship between s. a. DIeteren n. v. and the Company was entered into in connection Board evaluation with the Companys otation in 1997.
It includes restrictions on s. a.
During 2006 the Board carried out a formal evaluation process DIeteren n. v. s power to appoint Directors and obligations on those which is designed to provide a rigorous annual evaluation of Directors to ensure that the majority of the Board is independent the Boards own performance and that of its Committees.
of s. a. DIeteren n. v. It also provides that all transactions between The evaluation process assesses the effectiveness of Board the Company and s. a. DIeteren n. v. will be on an arms length and Committee processes to provide a basis for feedback and basis.
The agreement also contains certain anti-dilution rights for development where required.
As noted above, the Chairman s. a. DIeteren n. v. provided that the DIeteren Group owns more has responsibility for the evaluation process and for taking any than 30% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
appropriate action based on the results of the evaluation.
During the year, the Group has entered into transactions with The evaluation processes for Board performance are conducted via the DIeteren Group on an arms length basis with respect to a set of structured questionnaires prepared by Towers Perrin, an the purchase and sale of vehicles and the provision of finance.
The questionnaires ask each Board Committee Further details of these transactions are set out in Note 41 to member to comment on a range of factors which contribute to the the Consolidated Financial Statements.
effectiveness of the Board or the relevant Committee.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman and relevant feedback is provided As recommended by the Combined Code the Company carries to the Board and each Committee.
directors and ofcers liability insurance which is arranged under an umbrella policy effected by s. a. DIeteren n. v. The Company has The Chairman has benchmarked individual Directors performance entered into indemnities to the extent permitted by English law, against the results of the individual evaluations conducted in 2005 indemnifying the Directors against claims brought against them.
and carried out follow-up where appropriate with individual Directors.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also conducted an Shareholder relations evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
The Board as a whole is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director make Directors interests presentations to institutional shareholders following the announcement Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company of the interim and preliminary results each year, and are actively are set out below and in the Remuneration Report.
involved in an investor relations programme during the rest of the year.
The Chairman is also responsible for maintaining a channel through Jean-Pierre Bizet is Chief Executive of s. a. DIeteren n. v. Roland which shareholders can express their views, and for communicating DIeteren is Chairman of s. a. DIeteren n. v. and Gilbert van Marcke fide any shareholder issues or concerns to the Board as a whole.
Lummen is a non-executive Director of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which held 63,609,360 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company The Chief Executive makes a presentation at the Annual General as at 31 December 2006.
Jean-Pierre Bizet, Roland DIeteren and Meeting highlighting key business developments during the year.
Benoit Ghiot are Directors of DIeteren Invest s. a. a wholly-owned All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the subsidiary of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which was the beneficial owner of meeting or leave written questions, which will be answered in 484,976,895 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company writing as soon as possible afterwards.
A copy of the Chief as at 31 December 2006.
Details of significant contracts entered Executives presentation may be requested at the Annual General into with s. a. DIeteren n. v. are disclosed below.
There have been Meeting or from the Investor Relations Department.
The Companys no changes in the above Directors interests between 31 December website at www.
com provides current and historical 2006 and 26 February 2007. information about the Group.
Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests in the Health and safety at work shares of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement In 2005 the Board approved a new Group-wide policy on health and with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Each operating country has a nominated Director on the local Board who has overall responsibility for setting goals and performance targets.
Consistent measures of performance have been agreed and will be reported on a quarterly basis.
Avis Europe plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The system of internal controls includes but is not limited to: Charitable and political donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations totalling clear denition of the organisation structure and the appropriate 54,000: 37,000 2005: 54,000: 37,000.
The Group made delegation of authorities to management: no political donations during the year 2005: nil.
maintenance of appropriate segregation of duties together with other procedural controls: Payments to creditors Given the number of countries in which the Group operates it is strategic planning and the related annual budgeting and practice to agree the terms of payment at the start of business regular review process: with each supplier and to pay in accordance with contractual and monthly reporting and review of financial results and other legal obligations.
The Company had no trade creditors at key performance statistics: 31 December 2006 2005: nil.
At 31 December 2006 the number of creditor days outstanding for the Company was nil 2005: nil.
adoption of accounting policies to help ensure the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Groups financial records: Auditors specic treasury policies and the regular reporting and review of The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services being all significant treasury transactions and nancing activities: and provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a formal independence policy to help ensure that there is no procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure.
impairment to their independence or objectivity.
The principles that underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system auditors are that the auditor should not: enter into arrangements with of internal control through the following processes: the Group which could compromise their independence as auditors: review of internal and external audit plans: audit its own rms work: make management decisions for the Group: have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group eg success review of the results of the control self-assessment programme: fees or provide legal and expert services to the Group in judicial review of any significant reported unsatisfactory control matters: or regulatory proceedings.
Some types of service are proscribed while others that might be perceived to be in conict with the role consideration of individual internal audit reports by the Chairman of the external auditor must be submitted to the Audit Committee of the Committee: for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the fees involved.
collective review of any control issues that arise from internal and external audits together with any additional matters brought The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the to its attention: external auditors quarterly in order to consider the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into account relevant review of any significant risks identied by the Groups risk professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not management process: and impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
discussions with management on any significant new risk areas identied by management and the internal and external  LLP were engaged by the Group for certain audit processes.
non-audit activities, the fees for which are set out in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The nature and materiality of During 2006 the Audit Committee completed a more formal this work has been reviewed by the Audit Committee which is assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal control satisfied that there has been no conict with the need for audit assisted through the introduction of an Internal Controls Systems independence and objectivity.
The document includes comprehensive descriptions of the risk management processes and controls environment, and A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors enabled the Audit Committee to apply a more structured approach to to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Going forward this document will be updated regularly.
Internal control and risk management The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides a report to the The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the Board after every Audit Committee meeting.
In satisfying itself that Groups system of controls, including operational and compliance sufficient and appropriate work has been performed, the Board as controls, risk management and the Groups internal control a whole considers the adequacy and scope of the reports it has arrangements.
These reviews have included an assessment of both received from the Audit Committee along with corroborative financial and operational internal controls by the Groups internal evidence where necessary.
audit and risk management function, management assurance of the maintenance of control, and reports from the external auditor The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has completed on matters identied in the course of its statutory audit work.
its annual review of the effectiveness of the embedded system of A key part of the Groups own internal control review is a quarterly internal control in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull declaration and annual certication process by which the managers Report for the period since 1 January 2006 and is satisfied that responsible confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal this review is in accordance with that guidance.
financial control, their compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations and are also required to report any breakdown in Assessment of business risk control or occurrence of fraud that has come to light.
In addition, in The Group views the active management of risk as a key 2006 the internal audit and risk management function co-ordinated management process and recognises that managing business risk a control self-assessment programme through which compliance to deliver opportunities is critical to the strategic development of the with best practice for both financial and non-financial controls was business.
It is ensured that such business risks, which are classied assessed by local management and was then selectively validated.
as strategic, operational, reputational, financial and environmental, are both understood and visible as far as practicable.
The Groups Internal control environment policy is to ensure that risk is taken on an informed rather than The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control and unintentional basis.
for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Avis Europe plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued The Groups work in the area of risk management in 2006 was Corporate governance statement overseen by the Avis Executive Board, membership of which The Board of Directors confirm that the Company has complied comprises heads of key business functions and of main corporate throughout the financial year with the majority of the provisions set country operations and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
In addition, out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except that the Company did the Group has instructed the formation of individual country risk not comply throughout the financial year with the following provisions: management committees in a number of its operating companies, 1 the requirement that independent non-executive Directors the activities of which are co-ordinated by the internal audit and excluding the Chairman should comprise not less than 50% of the risk management function.
Board: 2 the requirement that all members of the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive Directors: and 3 the The Groups integrated risk management framework aims to ensure requirement that a Senior Independent Director be nominated.
that the business understands the key risks it faces and has an embedded risk management approach to its activities, links risk The reasons for non-compliance in each of the relevant areas are management to business performance reporting and seeks regular explained within the review of the Companys application of the improvement in the management of risk by sharing best practice principles of the Combined Code set out above.
In the areas of throughout the organisation.
The Group conducts an annual risk non-compliance the Directors believe that current policy is in the review across all operating units and updates its centrally held risk best interests of the Company.
register with each risks impact, probability and mitigation actions.
As part of the annual risk review, individual business units are Going concern required to submit their major risks together with their associated Under company law the Companys Directors are required to consider mitigation actions.
This system forms the cornerstone of the risk whether it is appropriate to prepare Financial Statements on the management activities of the Group, the aim of which is to provide basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part the Board with the assurance that the major risks facing the Group of its normal business practice the Group prepares annual and have been identied and assessed, and that there are controls longer-term plans and in reviewing this information the Companys either in place or planned to manage these risks.
Directors see no reason why the Company and the Group should not remain going concerns for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the A summary of the principal risks facing the Group has been reviewed Company and the Group continue to adopt the going concern basis and approved by the Audit Committee and is provided in the Risk in preparing the Financial Statements.
Factors section of the Business Review on pages 13 to 14.
Internal audit Avis Europe has an internal audit and risk management function, which is independent of the Groups external auditors and which works in partnership with an outsourced provider, KPMG, where specialist skills are required.
The Audit Committee ensures that this function is appropriately staffed and that its scope of work is adequate in the light of the key identied risks facing the Group and the other monitoring functions in place.
It also reviews and approves an annual internal audit plan and considers responses to an effectiveness questionnaire distributed after each internal audit has been completed.
The Audit Committee also raties the appointment and dismissal of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and assesses his independence and objectivity.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit has unfettered access to management and the Audit Committee.
The role of internal audit is to: assess the design and operating effectiveness of controls governing key operational processes and business risks: provide the Board with an assessment, independent of management, as to the adequacy of the Groups internal operating and financial controls, systems and practices: assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities: and provide advisory services to management in order to enhance the control environment and improve business performance.
Whistleblowing arrangements During the year, a Group-wide framework was in place enabling employees to raise any concerns.
The arrangements are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and recommunicated annually by management to ensure their continuing effectiveness.
The process has been communicated to all employees across the Group and policy and procedures issued to management of all operating units providing guidance on how they are expected to respond.
Matters can be raised anonymously, and employees are assured that they will have protection under the policy.
Avis Europe plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
