14 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 C Co or rp po or ra at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e The Directors have reviewed the Groups compliance with The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups the Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the Code.
strategy, the annual budget, material capital expenditure, material contracts, customer credit limits above certain levels, For FTSE 250 companies, the Code requires that at least half major investments and disposals and entering into material of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise strategic alliances, joint ventures and partnerships.
The Board non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be delegates day-to-day and business management control to the independent.
The Group has not strictly complied with this executive Directors led by the Chief Executive.
requirement as there are four executive Directors and only three independent non-executive Directors although the The Board receives sufficient management information and Board also considers the Chairman to be independent.
reports on all strategic and significant operational matters on a However the Board is unanimously of the view that the timely basis.
Senior executives also attend Board meetings as current balance between executive and non-executive appropriate.
Site visits and briefings by operational management members is conducive to the good governance of the to enhance the Boards understanding of the business take business.
The Chairman has served as a member of the Audit and Training including social, environmental and ethical matters is Remuneration Committees during the year.
Following the provided for new Directors, by means of a tailored induction, appointment of Giles Kerr as a non-executive Director and and subsequently as required.
Directors can take independent Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August, the professional advice where necessary at the Companys expense Chairman has ceased to be a member of the Audit and have access to the services of the Company Secretary Committee but attends by invitation.
He remains a member whose appointment is a Board matter and who is responsible of the Remuneration Committee as the Board considers this for ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and beneficial in view of his skills, experience and training.
Appropriate levels of insurance cover this is not in compliance with the current Code, it is are obtained for all Directors and Officers of the Company.
permitted under the new Combined Code issued in June The Board met formally seven times during the year.
With the this year, which will apply to future reporting periods.
exception of the Commercial Director, who was unable to Subject to the above paragraph, the Directors confirm that attend one meeting, there was full attendance at all meetings.
the Group complied in all respects with the Code During the year, the Chairman met with the other nonthroughout the year, as follows: executive Directors without the executive Directors present on two occasions, and the Senior Independent Director met with T Th he e B Bo oa ar rd d the other non-executive Directors, without the Chairman The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic present, on one occasion.
development, monitoring achievement of its business The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing objectives and maintaining a system of effective corporate Committees, which report back to the Board on the basis of governance, which includes the responsibility for health, clearly defined terms of reference.
safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
The terms of reference of the Committees are available, on The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, three other request, from the Registered Office of the Company.
non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
All of the A formal review of Board and Board Committee performance is Directors served throughout the year with the exception of carried out annually.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by Charles Irving-Swift who retired on 5 June 2006 and Giles Kerr the Remuneration Committee excluding the Chairman in who was appointed on 1 August 2006.
The offices of conjunction with the Chief Executive.
The other non-executive Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly distinct.
Directors performance is evaluated by the Chairman in The division of their responsibilities is set out in writing and consultation with the executive Directors.
Executive Directors has been agreed by the Board.
There is no Deputy Chairman.
performance is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in The non-executive Directors including the Chairman, are all conjunction with the Chief Executive, except in the case of his considered by the Board to be independent of the management own performance review.
and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Anita Frew is the Senior Independent Director.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 15 N No om miin na at tiio on ns s C Co om mm miit tt te ee e statements containing financial information, before submission to the Board for endorsement.
C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n P Pe et te er r W Wa ar rr ry y It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with The Nominations Committee, comprising all of the non-executive the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the Directors and the Chief Executive, is responsible for regularly external auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Committee reviews annually including succession planning and identifying and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor taking recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
In considering an appointment the into account the non-audit services provided by them.
Nominations Committee evaluates the balance of skills, Such non-audit services require approval by the Committee.
In knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a considering whether the provision of such services could impair description of the role and capabilities required for a particular the external auditors independence or objectivity, the Committee appointment.
External search consultants are then used to is governed by the following guidelines, which are incorporated identify appropriate candidates.
This procedure was most in its terms of reference: recently applied for the appointment of Giles Kerr.
The external whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make it a search consultants used were Blackwood Group.
suitable supplier of the non-audit service under The Nominations Committee is also responsible for annually consideration: reviewing the time required from each non-executive Director.
whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is The Nominations Committee met three times during the year no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of and there was full attendance at all meetings.
the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, external auditor: Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM following the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels their appointment and thereafter by rotation, at least once every individually and in aggregate relative to the audit fee and, three years.
the criteria which govern the compensation of the R Re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n C Co om mm miit tt te ee e individuals performing the audit.
C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n A An niit ta a F Fr re ew w In principle the external auditor should not provide any service The Remuneration Committee, comprising all of the nonwhich: executive Directors, is responsible for reviewing and results in the external auditor auditing its own recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of firms work: the Chairman, executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
Once leads to the external auditor making a management decision approved, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for for the Company: evaluating the performance and determining specific creates a mutuality of interest or, remuneration packages for the Chairman and each executive leads to the external auditor being put in the role of Director.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of advocate for the Company.
The Chairman and executive Directors are responsible for the agreement of non-executive The Audit Committee met four times during the year and there Directors remuneration.
was full attendance at all meetings.
Only Committee members are entitled to attend a meeting.
However, the Chairman, the The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year Finance Director, the Financial Controller and the external audit and there was full attendance at all meetings.
engagement partner are normally invited to attend meetings.
A Au ud diit t C Co om mm miit tt te ee e Others are also invited to attend as appropriate.
A section of at C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n G Giille es s K Ke er rr r least one meeting each year takes place without management present.
The Audit Committee, comprising all of the non-executive Directors except the Chairman, is responsible for assisting the At its meeting on 25 November 2005, the Committee reviewed Board with its responsibilities in respect of external financial the Companys preliminary announcement of its results for the reporting.
This includes reviewing the Groups financial financial year ended 30 September 2005 and the draft report statements, preliminary announcements and any formal and accounts for that year.
The external auditor reported to the announcements relating to financial performance, or other Committee on the conduct of their audit, their review of the 16 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 C Co or rp po or ra at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e continued accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgement, R Re ella at tiio on ns s w wiit th h s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s and commented on risk management and control matters.
The The Company is always ready, where practicable, to enter into results of regular internal control reviews were also considered, dialogue with institutional shareholders to promote a mutual together with an update on the implementation of International understanding of objectives.
Institutional investor relations Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Committee carried activity is normally concentrated in the periods following the out the annual appraisal of the external auditor including announcement of the interim and final results.
More broadly reviewing non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit based presentations and site visits are arranged when there is a process.
sufficient demand to make it cost effective.
The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity to meet informally and The Committee met on 7 February 2006 to carry out a detailed communicate directly with private investors.
Proxy votes lodged review of the impact of implementing IFRS.
on each AGM resolution are announced.
At its meeting on 23 May 2006, the Committee reviewed the To ensure that the Board, particularly the non-executive Directors, Companys interim results announcement and draft half year understand the views of major shareholders, the Companys report.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on their brokers provide a summary of feedback from the meetings review.
The Committee also reviewed the draft IFRS guidance following the announcement of the interim and final results.
announcement and considered the results of regular internal The Board is also regularly provided with summaries of analysts control reviews.
In addition the Chairman attends analyst On 26 September 2006, the external auditor presented their briefings following results announcements and is available to proposed fees and scope for the audit for the year ended 30 meet institutional shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director September 2006.
The Committee also carried out its annual and other non-executive Directors will attend meetings with performance appraisal and terms of reference review.
D Diis sc cllo os su ur re e C Co om mm miit tt te ee e IIn nt te er rn na all c co on nt tr ro oll C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n P Pe et te er r W Wa ar rr ry y, D Da av viid d H Hu um mm me ell The Group has complied with the Code provisions on internal o or r M Miic ch ha ae ell P Pe ea ac co oc ck k control by operating throughout the year ended 30 September The Disclosure Committees responsibilities are to ensure that the 2006 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report Companys obligations to make timely and accurate disclosure of those procedures necessary to implement the recommendations information in accordance with any applicable law or regulation of the Turnbull Committee and by reporting in accordance with are met in circumstances where it is impractical for the Board, or these recommendations.
The Board is ultimately responsible for any other Board Committee with delegated responsibility, to fulfil the Groups system of internal control which covers all controls those obligations.
In accordance with these responsibilities the including financial, operational, compliance and risk Committee may make disclosures on behalf of the Board.
management as further described on page 17 and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives senior finance executives.
The Chairman of each Committee and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance meeting will be appointed on an ad hoc basis.
A quorum for a against material misstatement or loss.
Committee meeting will be any two Committee members, provided that this includes at least one of the Companys C Co on nt tr ro oll e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt t Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
Meetings The Group maintains a clearly defined and well established of the Committee may be called by any member of the control environment.
The Groups strategy is established and Committee on any period of notice provided that notice is given periodically reviewed by the Board and key projects are to all members.
The management of the Group is The Committee will consider the circumstances that give rise to delegated to the Chief Executive and his fellow executive the potential need for a disclosure, whether it is practical for the Directors.
Authority is delegated to senior executives as Board or any other Board Committee to consider the potential appropriate and the organisational requirements of a rapidly disclosure and, if it is impractical, the form and content of a developing business are regularly reviewed.
disclosure to be made on behalf of the Board.
The Committee will take advice, including advice from the Companys brokers, external auditors and legal advisers, on the form and content of any disclosure under consideration.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 The Group has a comprehensive process of annual budgeting, a minimum of 75% and a maximum of 100% of projected detailed monthly management reporting and regular forecasting transaction exposures arising in the following six month linked to the Groups business objectives.
period and, The Directors have also reviewed the need for an internal audit at the Boards discretion a maximum of 75% of projected function and have concluded that there is no requirement at transaction exposures arising in the further three month present.
The Group has a clear and ongoing process for identifying, Profitability can nevertheless vary due to the impact of evaluating and managing significant risks, which is managed by fluctuating exchange rates on the uncovered portion of the the Risk Management Committee.
transaction exposures and from revised forecasts of future trading, which can lead to an adjustment of currency cover in R Riis sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t C Co om mm miit tt te ee e place.
The impact of this hedging policy is disclosed in notes 13 C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n - - T Tiim m W Wa allk ke er r and 24 to the financial statements.
The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Production D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y f fo or r p pr re ep pa ar riin ng g f fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s and Technical Director, comprising two further executive The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare Directors and senior executives from the operational, commercial financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state and finance functions, is responsible for ensuring that all risks of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the facing the Group are reduced to an acceptable level.
year and of the profit for the year.
In preparing these financial This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying statements, suitable accounting policies, as explained in the all risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, whilst notes to the financial statements, consistently applied and recognising existing control measures, so that unacceptable risks supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are identified.
Plans are developed and implemented to and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks where practicable.
The The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper and Committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk adequate accounting records are kept, and that reasonable management and control process within the Group.
procedures have been followed for safeguarding the assets of The Committee meets quarterly and regularly reports to the the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other Board.
In addition, the Board undertakes annually a formal irregularities.
review of the risk management process and the performance of G Go oiin ng g c co on nc ce er rn n the Risk Management Committee.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have C Cu ur rr re en nc cy y C Co om mm miit tt te ee e adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n - - D Da av viid d H Hu um mm me ell future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going The Currency Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
comprising three further executive Directors and senior finance executives, meets monthly to review and manage the Groups currency hedging activities.
The Board is responsible for setting the hedging policy.
Currently the Group exports 97% of sales from the UK.
These sales are denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Group hedging policy is to defer the impact on profits of currency movements by hedging: a minimum of 90% and a maximum of 100% of projected transaction exposures arising from trading in the forthcoming six month period:
