Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
John Biles, describes how, during the year ended 31 March 2006, the Company appointed on 23 August 2005, and Laurence MacKenzie, appointed has applied the main and supporting principles of good governance.
on 2 March 2006, will seek election at the forthcoming AGM.
All The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions set out directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the AGM at in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the least every three years.
Harry McCracken, last re-elected by FRC in 2003 the Code throughout the year, with the following shareholders in 2003, will seek re-election at the AGM.
The Board exceptions: of Directors section contains biographical details of each director.
From 1 May 2005 until the appointment of John Biles as a nonThe directors have direct access to the advice and services of the executive director on 23 August 2005, the composition of the Board Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that applicable was not in compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Code in that less rules and regulations are complied with and that Board procedures than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was independent.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for During that period, and until John Biless appointment to the the Board as a whole.
Independent professional advice may also be Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee in October 2005, the taken, at the Companys expense, by directors in the furtherance of composition of these Board committees was not in compliance with their duties.
2.1 and C. 3.1 of the Code in that these committees comprised only two independent non-executive directors.
Following Newly appointed directors undergo a structured induction the appointment of Laurence MacKenzie as an executive director on programme, including site visits, to ensure that they have the 2 March 2006, the composition of the Board is again not in necessary knowledge and understanding of the Group and its compliance with provision A.
Updates are provided when required to refresh directors considers that, for its size, its composition continues to reflect a skills and knowledge.
Continuing development is provided through substantial degree of independence, the Nomination Committee has briefing sessions in the course of scheduled Board meetings commenced a process for the appointment of an additional nonand other briefing opportunities, covering business specific and executive director.
The Board Board Proceedings During most of the year the Board comprised a non-executive In order to ensure effective control of the Group, the Board reserves Chairman, three non-executive directors and three executive certain matters for decision to itself.
These include: directors thus maintaining an appropriate balance of independence, experience and skills.
There were a number of changes to the long-term objectives and strategy: Board during the year.
Philip Rogerson retired on 30 April 2005, business plans and budgets: having served six years as Chairman, and Dipesh Shah, a noninternal control arrangements: executive director since November 2003, was appointed as nonannouncement of results and approval of annual report and executive Chairman on 1 May 2005.
John Biles, formerly Finance accounts: Director of FKI plc, was appointed as a non-executive director on 23 August 2005 and Chairman of the Audit Committee from dividend policy: 1 October 2005.
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Board committees and their terms of reference: Infrastructure, was appointed as an executive director on 2 March major capital expenditure: 2006, thereby increasing the number of executive directors to four.
significant Group policies: and In the opinion of the Board, each of the non-executive directors is acquisitions and divestments.
currently independent under the criteria set out in the Code.
The Board is aware of the non-executive directors other commitments The Board manages these matters through its regular and special and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties.
The wide Board meetings and strategy review meetings.
Briefing papers are ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors provided to directors several days in advance of meetings.
At each ensure that they can contribute significantly to the Board and, meeting the Board reviews financial and business performance specifically, engage in constructive debate and challenge against the budget and plans approved by the Board.
It also management in relation to both the development of strategy and the receives reports and presentations from the businesses and minutes performance of the Group.
and or oral reports from the meetings of its committees.
This ensures that all directors are aware of, and are in a position to There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman monitor effectively, the Groups operations and current issues.
and the Group Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing Specific business, which needs to be addressed between scheduled and agreed by the Board.
Board meetings, is dealt with at special Board meetings, often by conference telephone.
The Chairman meets the non-executive directors informally, without executive directors being present, at least once during the year.
These meetings and other regular informal discussions create the opportunity for valuable input from the non-executive directors.
Corporate Governance 21 To ensure that its broad range of responsibilities is managed Nomination Committee effectively and in an appropriate manner, the Board has established Dipesh Shah, the Chairman of the Board, chairs the Nomination a number of committees.
These include the Executive Committee, Committee.
During the year its other members were Duncan Lewis, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Mike Toms, Patrick Haren and, from 7 October 2005, John Biles.
The Board has adopted terms of reference Philip Rogerson chaired the Committee until his retirement on for each of these committees which are available on request from 30 April 2005.
The Committee met on four occasions.
It has a the Company and on the Groups website www.
remit to: Executive Committee consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new The Group Chief Executive is responsible for leading, managing and appointments of directors having regard to the overall balance controlling the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to those and composition of the Board: matters reserved for decision by the Board.
He chairs the Executive consider succession planning: and Committee, which is authorised, subject to the powers delegated to it make recommendations to the Board concerning the and to reporting its significant decisions to the next Board meeting, re-appointment of any non-executive director following to take whatever management action it considers necessary to conclusion of his or her specified term of office.
safeguard the interests of the Company and to further the strategy, business objectives and targets established by the Board.
During During the year members of the Committee interviewed candidates the year, the Executive Committee comprised the executive directors identified by executive search consultants, for the role of nonand Ian Thom, Company Secretary.
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing executive director, based on a description of the skills and Director Electricity Infrastructure, was also a member of the experience stipulated by the Committee.
The outcome was a Committee prior to his appointment as an executive director.
There recommendation, in August 2005 from the Committee to the Board, were 11 scheduled meetings and a number of additional meetings to to appoint John Biles as a non-executive director.
In March 2006, consider specific issues.
The Chairman may attend these meetings the Committee considered and recommended to the Board the at his discretion.
The key responsibilities and tasks delegated to the appointment of Laurence MacKenzie as an executive director.
Committee include: A description of the role and capabilities for the appointment of a implementing Board policy: further non-executive director was prepared and the Committee has ensuring effective performance and co-ordination of the Groups retained executive search consultants to identify candidates with a business activities: view to maintaining the balance, skills and abilities on the Board and overseeing financial and operational performance, including to provide an opportunity to enhance membership of the Boards health and safety and environmental performance: committees.
It is anticipated that the Committee will recommend the appointment of a further non-executive director during 2006 07. monitoring and implementing improvements in financial performance: Audit Committee Report approving expenditure and other financial commitments as The Audit Committee currently comprises John Biles Chairman, delegated by the Board: Duncan Lewis and Mike Toms.
Mike Toms chaired the Committee considering major changes in organisational structure: and until the appointment of John Biles on 1 October 2005.
On his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 1 May 2005, Dipesh approving appointments to boards of subsidiary companies.
Shah stood down from the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant Remuneration Committee financial experience.
The Board of Directors section contains During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Duncan biographical details of the current members of the Audit Committee.
Lewis Chairman, Mike Toms and, from 1 October 2005, John The Committee meets quarterly.
Dipesh Shah stood down from the Committee on his appointment as Chairman on 1 May 2005.
The Committees function is to determine remuneration policy and specific remuneration packages for executive directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary, including, where appropriate, pension arrangements and service contracts, and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committee consults with the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the other executive directors and the Company Secretarys remuneration.
The activities of the Committee, remuneration policy and the remuneration of directors, are described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
22 Corporate Governance Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 The external auditors Ernst and Young LLP, the internal auditors The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the  LLP, the Chairman of the Board and appointment of internal and external auditors and their remuneration executive directors may attend meetings at the invitation of the and determines their terms of engagement.
The Committees remit is to: carried out assessments of the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process, and monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal the internal auditors effectiveness, taking into consideration relevant announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: UK professional and regulatory requirements and the guidance set out in the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees.
The results of the review significant financial reporting issues and judgements: assessments were reported to the Board.
A policy is in place on the review accounting policies: employment of former employees of the external auditors.
monitor and review the effectiveness of internal controls and the Groups risk management system: The Board has a policy which specifies areas of non-audit services monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit that can be carried out by the external auditors and the financial function: thresholds above which non-audit services require the approval of the Board.
Any individual fees in relation to non-audit services in oversee the relationship with the external auditors: and excess of 50% of the annual audit fee and or any excess of the make recommendations on these matters to the Board for aggregate fees for non-audit services above 100% of the annual decision.
audit fee require Board approval.
Within these parameters, where it is considered reasonable that the external auditors undertake nonDuring the year, the Committee received at each meeting a report audit services for sound commercial and practical reasons without from the Risk Management Committee covering its review of inhibiting their objectivity, then engagement is permitted.
Such business risk registers and steps taken to enhance further the risk services include independent certification, reporting for Stock management framework within the Group.
Each meeting of the Exchange purposes and tax.
The cost of services provided by the Committee also received a report from the internal auditors covering external auditors during the year is detailed in note 5 to the risk assurance and updates on work carried out under the internal accounts.
Most of the cost of non-audit services was associated audit plan.
The external auditors provide the Committee with reports with tax and assurance services including the disposal of Sx3.
on the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
During the Involvement by the external auditors in these areas was considered year, the Committee considered progress reports on the appropriate and in the best commercial interests of the Group.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, whereby employees may raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters and have them investigated.
Attendance at Meetings The following table shows the number of, and each individual members attendance at, meetings of the Board as well as of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year: Director John Patrick Patrick Duncan Laurence Harry Philip Dipesh Mike 1 2 3 4 5 Biles Bourke Haren Lewis MacKenzie McCracken Rogerson Shah Toms Committee N, R, A N N, R, A N N, R, A N, R, A Membership denotes chairman Board 6 14 meetings 5 14 13 13 - 12 1 14 12 Nomination 5 meetings 2 5 5 1 5 5 Remuneration 7 meetings 3 7 1 7 Audit 4 meetings 2 4 4 1 N - Nomination Committee Appointed as a non-executive director on 23 August 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, R - Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, since October 2005 2 A - Audit Committee Appointed as an executive director in March 2006 3 Retired in April 2005 4 Chairman of the Board since May 2005.
Stood down from the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2005 5 Chairman of the Audit Committee until October 2005 6 Comprising 10 scheduled meetings and four special meetings to consider specific matters Corporate Governance 23 Board Performance Evaluation Internal Control During the year the Board, through the Company Secretary, Turnbull compliance conducted an evaluation of its own performance and that of its The Board has fully implemented the FRCs Internal Control: Revised committees and individual directors.
Board members completed a Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in October questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Board and the Chairman.
In addition, Board committee members completed a questionnaire on each committees performance.
Duncan Lewis, the Senior The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control Independent Director, also met separately with the non-executive and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to directors, taking into account the views of the executive directors, to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business discuss the performance of the Chairman.
Based on the responses objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute to the questionnaire and these meetings a report was considered by assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards the Board and individual committees as appropriate and, although monitoring of controls covers a wide range including financial, no significant issues were identified, suggested improvements have operational and compliance controls together with risk management.
been implemented to enhance Board performance.
A review of the performance of each director was also carried out by Dipesh There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Shah.
The Board will continue to evaluate its performance on an the Group's significant risks.
This process has been in place for the annual basis.
year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Communications with Shareholders During the year, work has continued through the internal control and risk management process to deal with areas of improvement which The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have come to managements and the Boards attention.
The Board has regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and not been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has analysts.
The Chairman meets with major shareholders from time to determined to be significant.
time and during the year has advised major shareholders, in writing, of his availability along with that of the Senior Independent Director Risk management and the newly appointed non-executive director should there be The Groups strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, which issues which the shareholders wish to discuss.
The Chairman of the effectively manages exposures related to the achievement of Remuneration Committee concluded a consultation with major business objectives.
The Risk Management Committee, chaired by shareholders on proposed changes to executive directors the Group Finance Director, comprises a number of senior managers remuneration policy.
from across the Group and meets monthly to assist the Board in fulfilling its risk management and control responsibilities.
It reports The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major to the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board on shareholders, compiled by the Companys brokers and financial PR a regular basis.
The Committee regularly reviews individual business consultants, in particular following presentations and meetings on risk registers as well as registers covering a number of functional the publication of financial results.
Analysts notes are provided to areas including group finance, treasury, regulatory affairs and the Board on a regular basis.
procurement and also receives regular updates on IT governance arrangements.
The Committee also reviews business continuity and The principal method of communicating with the majority of IT disaster recovery arrangements and has responsibility for shareholders is via the Annual Report and Accounts or Annual monitoring the Groups CSR strategy and programmes.
Review and Summary Financial Statement and the Companys website which contains details of financial presentations to major Risk issues are also addressed at management meetings through shareholders and other information about the Group.
All the review of risk registers.
These meetings consider early shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM.
All directors warning signs of risks materialising and significant control failings were present at the 2005 AGM and all intend to be present at the or weaknesses.
2006 AGM to answer shareholders questions.
The Executive Committee and the Board specifically consider the corporate risk register which sets out those risks which are managed at a corporate level and or the management of which is determined by policy set at a corporate level: 24 Corporate Governance Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 Regulatory risk Health and safety risk In Northern Ireland, the main regulatory risks faced by the Group The Group is committed to ensuring a safe working environment.
relate to the management by NIE of a wide range of regulatory The risks arising from inadequate management of health and safety transactions with NIAER and DETI, including compliance with the matters are the exposure of employees and third parties to the risk Licence, the impact of price control reviews, the development of of injury, potential liability and or loss of reputation.
These risks are systems for market opening and the introduction of the SEM.
The closely managed by the Group through: the strong promotion of a regulatory framework within which NIE operates is described in the health and safety culture: well defined health and safety policies: Operating Review.
and the Groups health, safety and risk business plan.
The Groups approach to health and safety issues is described more fully in the NIEs relationship with NIAER and DETI is managed by senior CSR Report.
management and by a dedicated regulatory affairs team through frequent meetings, informed dialogue and formal correspondence.
Management development The regulatory team also monitors licence compliance and the status Long-term competitiveness and viability of the business depends on of current regulatory transactions.
NIEs approach to price control the Groups ability to retain and attract personnel of high quality.
reviews is to be pro-active in promoting approaches that will lead to This risk is managed through development plans which are regularly an agreed outcome.
These include the extension of price controls in reviewed and updated.
These are accompanied by specific policies return for undertakings by the regulated business and adherence to in areas such as training, management development and relevant precedent and best practice.
Senior management succession is reviewed by the Board.
In the RoI, the Group is exposed, through VP&E, to the impact of regulatory decisions as well as changes in legislation and or Financial and business control regulation which impact its generation or supply activities, including Strong financial and business controls are necessary to ensure the the introduction of the SEM.
The regulatory framework in the RoI is integrity and reliability of financial and other information on which described in the Operating Review.
the Group relies for day-to-day operations, external reporting and for longer term planning.
The Group exercises financial and business Through senior management and its regulatory team, VP&E control through a combination of: qualified and experienced financial maintains regular interaction with both CER and DCMNR at a teams: detailed performance analysis: established policies in areas number of levels.
A pro-active approach is taken to consultations by such as treasury and commodity hedging: budgeting and cash flow CER and DCMNR on matters such as existing wholesale forecasting: a fully integrated accounting system: and clearly defined arrangements, proposed rules under the SEM, renewable energy approval limits.
The internal auditors test effectiveness of financial support and tariff setting.
The external auditors provide advice on specific accounting and taxation issues as they arise.
Business performance risk Business performance risk is the risk that one or more of the Pension risk Groups businesses may not perform as expected either due to The Group is required to manage the risk that the costs of meeting internal factors or due to competitive pressures in the markets in its pension obligations increase in excess of expectations.
Performance risks specific to each business are Focus defined benefit section of the Viridian Group Pension identified in individual business risk registers and managed at that Scheme VGPS was closed to new entrants in 1998.
At the Group level, business performance risk is managed actuarial and investment advice is taken with respect to through a number of measures: ensuring the appropriate management of VGPSs assets and liabilities.
During the year, the management team is in place for each business: rigorous budget Group supported VGPSs decisions to take a liability-driven approach and business planning: monthly reporting and variance analysis: to the management of its bond portfolio and to introduce currency financial controls: key performance indicators: and regular hedging for its overseas equity assets.
In July 2005 the Group forecasting.
applied 25m of the proceeds from the disposal of Sx3 towards the pension deficit in VGPS.
Business continuity risk The Group has in place measures to manage the risk that one or Strategic planning more of its businesses sustains a greater than necessary financial The Group faces the risk that it fails to plan appropriately for the impact through inability to carry on its operations either for a short or medium to long-term.
Each year a five year business plan is prolonged period.
These include managing the risk of damage to reviewed by the Board.
In addition, the Board holds a strategy the T&D network because of adverse weather conditions and the risk review, at least annually, to consider the Groups plans against a of interruptions to Huntstown 1s availability.
In general, such risks background of the strategic opportunities and threats it faces.
are managed through: prudent and safe operational processes: a Investment decisions are accompanied by detailed analysis, both focused capital expenditure programme: sound maintenance short and long-term, of the markets in which the Group operates.
practices: and insurance measures such as business interruption insurance.
A specific emergency plan, regularly reviewed and tested, exists to address major incidents impacting the T&D network.
In addition, each business maintains a business continuity plan and there is an IT disaster recovery plan which covers the whole Group.
These plans are reviewed and tested annually.
Corporate Governance 25 Social, ethical and environmental risk The Group has in place measures to protect against financial and reputational risk from any failure to manage social, ethical and environmental SEE risks.
In general, SEE risks are managed through embedding CSR into the Groups management processes and core business activities.
SEE risks are incorporated into each risk register.
Environmental risk, in particular, is managed through: a detailed environmental risk register: an environmental action plan: a certified environmental management system: and identification of potential environmental exposures.
These matters are monitored by nominated environmental compliance officers in key parts of the business.
Internal audit The Groups emphasis on sound management structures and policies and procedures is backed up by operational and financial review mechanisms and an externally resourced internal audit function, provided by  LLP.
During the year, the internal auditors have carried out a programme of audits and a review of the risk management process.
The internal auditors report to the Executive Committee each month and results of audits are reported to management and the Audit Committee.
In addition, the internal auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee.
The internal auditors carry out follow-up reviews to determine the extent of implementation of actions that have been agreed by management.
The annual internal audit and risk assurance programme and significant internal audit findings are reviewed by the Audit Committee, as are any relevant reports prepared by the external auditors.
Annual assessment The Board has carried out its annual review of effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In doing so it considered a report from the Executive Committee on its assessment of current significant risks.
A report from the Risk Management Committee verified that each executive director and senior manager had signed a letter of representation confirming his or her responsibility in relation to internal control and the completeness and accuracy of his or her risk register and risk reporting, disclosing any known material failings or weaknesses in internal controls.
Reports were also considered from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on risk management issues and from the internal auditors on the risk management process.
The Board regards the development of the system of internal control as an ongoing process and continues to review and develop the internal control systems of the Group.
