Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 US requires the Company to annually Contents assess and make public statements about the quality and effectiveness of its internal Page controls over financial reporting.
As a non-US company, Vodafone is first required to Corporate Governance 53 report on its compliance with section 404 for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Introduction 53 Managements report must describe conclusions about the effectiveness of the Directors and Organisation 54 Companys internal control over financial reporting based on managements evaluation Executive Management 55 as of the end of the Companys most recent fiscal year.
Committees of the Board 55 Statement on Internal Control 55 The Company has established a Steering Committee to provide strategic direction to the Control Environment 56 Companys section 404 compliance efforts and a Programme Management Office which Review of Effectiveness 56 monitors progress and provides detailed guidance to the compliance teams that have Relations with Shareholders 56 been set up in the Groups subsidiaries and central functions.
The Companys Audit Political Donations 56 Committee also plays an active role in monitoring these efforts.
The Audit Committee Directors Indemnities 56 receives progress updates at each of its meetings as well as a bi-annual status Auditors 57 presentation from the Programme Management Office.
The Companys external auditors Report from the Audit Committee 57 have been consulted throughout the project and will continue to be involved as the Company finalises its review.
Employees 58 Employee Involvement 58 The Company has reviewed the structure and operation of its entity level control Employment Policies 58 environment: the overarching structure of review and monitoring essential to the Equal Opportunities 58 management of its business.
The Disabled 58 Health, Safety and Wellbeing 58 Each of the Companys subsidiaries and central functions has ensured that the relevant processes and controls are documented to appropriate standards, taking into account Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues 59 the guidance provided by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards Auditing Corporate Responsibility 59 Standard No.
2 and subsequent SEC Staff Questions and Answers related to the Environmental Issues 60 standard.
The approach taken has been to identify the key financial reporting processes Environmental Performance Indicators 60 so that, in aggregate, the Company has reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements.
Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration 61 Remuneration Committee 61 The Company is making satisfactory progress on the work required to enable it to report Remuneration Policy 61 on its compliance with section 404 at 31 March 2007.
Report on Executive Directors Remuneration for the 2006 Financial Year and Subsequent Periods 62 The Company has also adopted a corporate Code of Ethics for senior executive, financial Audited Information 65 and accounting officers, separate from and additional to its Business Principles, Directors Statement of Responsibility 70 described below.
A copy of this code is available on the Groups website at Disclosure of Information to Auditors 70 www.
Going Concern 70 Differences from New York Stock Exchange corporate Corporate Governance governance practices Independence Introduction The NYSE rules require that a majority of the Board must be comprised of independent directors and the rules include detailed tests that US companies must use for Statement of corporate governance policy determining independence.
The Combined Code requires a companys board of directors The Board of directors of the Company is committed to high standards of corporate to assess and make a determination as to the independence of its directors.
While the governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to maintaining Board does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed tests, it has carried investors trust in the Company.
The Group expects all its directors and employees to act out an assessment based on the requirements of the Combined Code and has with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Group will strive to act in accordance with the determined in its judgement that all of the non-executive directors are independent laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of within those requirements.
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprised business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the the Chairman, four executive directors and eleven non-executive directors.
culture of every country in which it does business.
Committees The Combined Code Under NYSE rules, US companies are required to have a nominating and corporate The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the United Kingdom on the London Stock governance committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely of Exchange.
As such, the Company is required to make a disclosure statement concerning independent directors with a written charter that addresses the Committees purpose its application of the principles of and compliance with the provisions of the revised and responsibilities.
The Companys Nominations and Governance Committee and Combined Code on corporate governance the Combined Code.
For the year ended Remuneration Committee have terms of reference and composition that comply with 31 March 2006, the Board confirms that the Company has been in compliance with the the Combined Code requirements.
The Nominations and Governance Committee is provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
The disclosures provided below are chaired by the Chairman of the Board, and its other members are non-executive nevertheless intended to provide an explanation of the Companys corporate directors of the Company and the Chief Executive.
The Remuneration Committee is governance policies and practices.
composed entirely of non-executive directors whom the Board has determined to be independent.
The Companys Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors whom the Board has determined to be independent and who meet the US listing requirements requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act.
The Company considers that The Companys ADSs are listed on the NYSE and the Company is, therefore, subject to the terms of reference of these committees, which are available on its website at the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws and the rules of the SEC.
com, are generally responsive to the relevant NYSE rules but may not requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with the NYSEs corporate address all aspects of these rules.
governance rules but foreign private issuers, such as the Company, are exempt from most of those rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule 303A.
11, the Company is required Corporate governance guidelines to disclose a summary of any significant ways in which the corporate governance Under NYSE rules, US companies must adopt and disclose corporate governance practices it follows differ from those required by the NYSE for US companies.
Vodafone has posted its statement of compliance with the Combined Code of such differences is set out below.
The Company also has adopted a Group Governance Manual which provides the first level of the framework within which its The Company has established a Disclosure Committee with responsibility for reviewing businesses operate.
The manual is a reference for Chief Executives and their teams and and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of financial and applies to all directors and employees.
The Company considers that its corporate related information, and other procedures necessary to enable the Chief Executive and governance guidelines are generally responsive to, but may not address all aspects of, Chief Financial Officer to provide their Certifications of the Annual Report on Form 20-F the relevant NYSE rules.
that is filed with the SEC.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 53 Governance Corporate Governance continued The following table shows directors attendance at meetings during the 2006 financial year: Business principles In addition to the formal requirements of the Listing Authorities and Stock Exchanges Nominations and described above, the Group has developed and implemented its own Business Principles Audit Governance Remuneration which define its relationships with all of its stakeholders, govern how Vodafone conducts Board Committee Committee Committee its day-to-day business and represents the additional commitments the Group makes to Number of meetings its stakeholders.
These can be found on the Groups website at www.
during the year to 31 March 2006 8 5 3 5 The Business Principles apply to all subsidiary companies in the Group.
Chief Executives 1 Lord MacLaurin 8 2 are responsible for ensuring application of the Business Principles within their business.
Vodafone also promotes the Business Principles to its joint venture companies, Paul Hazen 8 1 2 associated undertakings, business partners and third parties.
Arun Sarin 8 3 Every employee is expected to act in accordance with the Business Principles.
A Sir Julian Horn-Smith 8 confidential email facility has been established for employees to report any concerns.
2 Peter Bamford 7 The Group tracks the implementation of its Business Principles through its Thomas Geitner 8 internal audits.
3 Andy Halford 6 4 Ken Hydon 2 Directors and Organisation Sir John Bond 7 2 4 Board composition 1 5 Dr Michael Boskin 8 5 5 The Companys Board consists of 16 directors, 12 of whom served throughout the 2006 financial year.
At 31 March 2006, in addition to the Chairman, Lord MacLaurin, there were Lord Broers 7 5 1 four executive directors and ten non-executive directors.
The Deputy Chairman, Paul John Buchanan 7 5 Hazen, is the nominated senior independent director and his role includes being available for approach or representation by directors or significant shareholders who Penny Hughes 8 4 2 may feel inhibited from raising issues with the Chairman.
He is also responsible for 6 Anne Lauvergeon 31 conducting an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening an annual meeting of the non-executive directors.
4 Sir David Scholey 21 Professor Jrgen Schrempp 8 2 5 Philip Yea, Anne Lauvergeon and Anthony Watson joined the Board as non-executive 1 7 directors on 1 September 2005, 1 November 2005 and 1 May 2006 respectively.
Peter Luc Vandevelde 7 4 Bamford ceased to be a member of the Board on 7 March 2006.
Lord MacLaurin, Sir 8 Philip Yea62 Julian Horn-Smith, Paul Hazen and Penny Hughes will retire on conclusion of the Notes: Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Sir John Bond will become the Chairman of the 1 Committee Chairman.
Company following the retirement of Lord MacLaurin and John Buchanan will succeed 2 Peter Bamford ceased to be a member of the Board on 7 March 2006.
3 Andy Halford joined the Board on 26 July 2005 and from then until 31 March 2006 there were six Board meetings.
Paul Hazen as the Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
The Company 4 Ken Hydon and Sir David Scholey retired from the Board on conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2005. considers all of its present non-executive directors to be fully independent.
The 5 Dr Michael Boskin succeeded Paul Hazen as Chairman of the Audit Committee during the year.
6 Anne Lauvergeon joined the Board on 1 November 2005 and from then until 31 March 2006 there were four Board executive directors are Arun Sarin Chief Executive, Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Thomas meetings.
7 Luc Vandevelde succeeded Penny Hughes as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
8 Philip Yea joined the Board on 1 September 2005 and from then until 31 March 2006 there were six Board meetings.
In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another engagement, as was the case for a number of directors in the year, are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relevant for such meeting and are able to discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Re-election of Directors Although not required by the Articles, in the interests of good corporate governance, the directors have resolved that they will all submit themselves for annual re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on 25 July 2006, other than Lord MacLaurin, Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Paul Hazen and Penny Hughes who are retiring at the conclusion of the AGM, all the directors will be retiring and, being eligible and on the recommendation of the Nominations and Governance Committee, will offer themselves for re-election.
Performance evaluation Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual directors takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee with the aim of improving individual contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and the Groups performance.
The Chairman leads the assessment of the Chief Executive and the non-executive directors, the Chief Executive undertakes the performance reviews for the executive directors and the senior independent director conducts the review of the performance of the Chairman.
Each Board Committee undertakes a review of its own work and, in relation to the performance of the Board, each director is required to complete a comprehensive questionnaire, the results of which are analysed and discussed by the Nominations and Governance Committee prior to the presentation of recommendations to the Board.
The evaluation process is designed to cover Board processes, the structure and capability of the Board, strategic alignment, Board dynamics and the skills brought to the Board by each director.
A series of questionnaires has also been developed to facilitate the evaluation processes for each Board Committee.
54 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 The evaluations found the performance of each director to be effective and concluded has designated John Buchanan, who is an independent non-executive director, satisfying that the Board provides the effective leadership and control required for a listed the independence requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, company.
The Nominations and Governance Committee confirmed to the Board that as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details of John Buchanan can be the contributions made by the directors offering themselves for re-election at the found in Board of Directors and Group Management.
AGM in July 2006 continued to be effective and the Company should support their re-election.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required, amongst other things, to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, to review the Companys preliminary results announcement, interim results and annual financial statements, to monitor Information and professional development compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any exchange on which the Each member of the Board has immediate access to a dedicated online team room and Companys shares are quoted, to review the scope, extent and effectiveness of the can access monthly information including actual financial results, reports from the activity of the Group Internal Audit Department, to engage independent advisers as it executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility and the Chief Executives determines is necessary and to perform investigations.
report which deals, amongst other things, with investor relations, giving Board members an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of major investors.
These The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the quality and acceptability of the matters are discussed at each Board meeting.
From time to time, the Board receives Companys accounting policies and practices, including without limitation, critical detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters of significance or on new accounting policies and practices.
The Audit Committee also plays an active role in opportunities for the Group.
Financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, are monitoring the Companys compliance efforts for section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The non-executive directors periodically visit and receives progress updates at each of its meetings as well as a bi-annual status different parts of the Group and are provided with briefings and information to assist presentation from the Programme Management Office.
them in performing their duties.
The non-executive directors and the Chairman regularly meet without executives present.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets separately with the external auditors and the Group Audit Director without management being present.
Further details on the The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience oversight of the relationships with the external auditors can be found under Auditors to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
On appointment, all and the Report from the Audit Committee which are set out on page 57. directors are provided with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public and listed company and also have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative matters with The Nominations and Governance Committee the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
When considered The Nominations and Governance Committee, which provides a formal and transparent necessary, more formal training is provided.
procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, generally engages external consultants to advise on prospective Board appointees.
This year, the Committee recommended the appointment of three further non-executive directors.
Matters for the Board Detailed role profiles were agreed by the Committee before external search consultants The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for were engaged to prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable candidates.
Only after a decision, including: rigorous interview process were the appointments recommended to the Board.
the approval of Group commercial strategy: The Committee also reviewed the Groups succession plans, directed the performance Group strategic and long-term plans: evaluations described earlier in this Annual Report, discussed matters of corporate major capital projects: governance and assessed the independence of non-executive directors prior to reporting to the Board.
approving annual budgets and operating plans: devising and reviewing the Groups corporate governance structure: The Remuneration Committee Group financial structure including tax and treasury policy : The Remuneration Committee is responsible to the Board for the assessment and recommendation of policy on executive remuneration and packages for individual approving statutory accounts and shareholder communications: executive directors.
The Committee has regular private sessions without executive Group risk management: and directors present.
Further information on the Committees activities is contained in the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
material contracts not in the ordinary course of business.
This schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed and updated by the Nominations and Governance Committee in January 2004 and its proposals were Statement on Internal Control subsequently approved by the Board.
Its currency and continued validity were assessed Introduction as part of the performance evaluations conducted in the 2006 financial year described The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance, earlier in this Report.
The agendas for Board meetings are initially developed by the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, for the year under Chief Executive and the Company Secretary and are finalised by the Chairman.
The review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
These procedures, which are directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, both as subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and a group and individually, are entitled to take independent professional advice at the cost managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
of the Company on matters relating to the proper discharge of their responsibilities.
Responsibility Executive Management The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
A sound system of The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads and regional internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve chief executives, meet 12 times a year as the Executive Committee under the business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing the risks associated day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, the overall financial performance of with social, environmental and ethical impacts is also discussed under Corporate the Group in fulfilment of strategy, plans and budgets and Group capital structure and Responsibility and Environmental Issues, on pages 59 to 60. funding.
It also reviews major acquisitions and disposals.
Control structure The Board sets the policy on internal control that is implemented by management.
This Committees of the Board is achieved through a clearly defined operating structure with lines of responsibility and The standing Board Committees are the Audit Committee, the Nominations and delegated authority.
The Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, manages Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The composition and terms this on a day-to-day basis.
of reference of these committees are published on the Groups website at www.
The Secretary to these standing Board Committees is the Company The Groups brand essence, which encapsulates the Groups commitment to integrity Secretary or his nominee.
and continuous improvement, in combination with the Groups Business Principles, sets the tone of the Group and reflects the control consciousness of management.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the necessary Written policies and procedures have been issued which clearly define the limits of ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Solely for the purpose of delegated authority and provide a framework for management to deal with areas of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Combined Code, the Board Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 55 Governance Corporate Governance continued significant business risk.
These policies and procedures are reviewed and, where of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in necessary, updated at Executive Committee meetings.
the Groups system of internal control.
The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls Control Environment and procedures are effective as at the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the directors.
This system is properly documented and regularly During the period covered by this Annual Report, there were no changes in the reviewed.
Companys internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness of the internal controls over Budgets are prepared by subsidiary management and subject to review by both regional financial reporting.
Forecasts are revised on a quarterly basis and compared against budget.
When setting budgets and forecasts, management identifies, evaluates and reports on the potential significant business risks.
Relations with Shareholders The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities clearly to its The Executive Committee and the Board review management reports on the financial shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with investors through a results and key operating statistics.
planned programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and quarterly statements Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups employees with continuing on key performance indicators.
The Company holds briefing meetings with its major education, training and development actively encouraged through a wide variety of institutional shareholders in the UK, the US and in Continental Europe, after the interim schemes and programmes.
The Group has adopted a set of values to act as a framework results and preliminary announcement, to ensure that the investing community receives for its people to exercise judgement and make decisions on a consistent basis.
a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance and the issues faced by the Group.
Telecommunications analysts are invited to presentations of the financial results Directors are appointed to associated undertakings and joint ventures and attend the and senior executives across the business attend relevant meetings and conferences board meetings and review the key financial information of those undertakings.
During the year, the Company hosts investors and analysts sessions guidance is given to those directors on the preparation that should take place before at which senior management from its largest operating subsidiaries, its largest joint these board meetings and their activity at the board meeting.
It is the Groups policy, venture and certain associated undertakings deliver presentations which provide an where possible, that its auditors are appointed as auditors of associated companies and overview of each of the individual businesses.
The Company, through its Investor joint ventures.
Relations team, responds to enquiries from shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts, who also The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial implications have access to the Chairman if they so require, to discuss business performance.
of the acquisition and key performance figures.
A sensitivity analysis takes place of the key assumptions made in the analysis.
Post investment appraisals of the Groups The principal communication with private investors is through the provision of the investments are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, the interim results and the AGM, an occasion which is attended by all the Companys directors and at which all shareholders The Board reviews a half-yearly report detailing any significant legal actions faced by present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board as well as the Group companies.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and Governance Committees.
A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given by the Chairman The Executive Committee monitors legal, environmental and regulatory matters and at the AGM before dealing with the formal business of the meeting.
The AGM is approves appropriate responses or amendments to existing policy.
broadcast live on the Groups website, www.
com, and a recording of the webcast can subsequently be viewed on the website.
All substantive resolutions at the Companys AGMs are decided on a poll.
The poll is conducted by the Companys Monitoring and review activities Registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Reform Services.
The proxy votes cast in relation There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting to all resolutions are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results of any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
the poll are published on the Companys website and announced via the regulatory news service.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys A formal annual confirmation is provided by the chief executive officer and chief website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
financial officer of each Group company certifying the operation of their control systems and highlighting any weaknesses.
Regional management, the Audit Committee and the Board review the results of this confirmation.
Political Donations At the AGM on 26 July 2005, the Board sought and obtained shareholders approval to The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer undertake a review of the quality and enable the Group to make donations to EU Political Organisations or incur EU Political timeliness of disclosures that includes formal annual meetings with the operating Expenditure, under the relevant provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and company or regional chief executives and the Disclosure Committee.
The approval given restricted such expenditure to an aggregate limit of 100,000 in the period of 12 months following the date of the AGM.
The Group Internal Audit Department, reporting directly to the Audit Committee, undertakes periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis and reports on The Group has made no political donations during the year.
At this years AGM, to be held on 25 July 2006, the directors propose to seek a renewal of Reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on certain internal controls shareholders approval for a period of three years until the AGM in 2009.
The amount of and relevant financial reporting matters, are presented to the Audit Committee and the approval for each year until the AGM in 2009 will again be restricted to an aggregate management.
amount of 100,000 50,000 in respect of donations to EU Political Organisations and 50,000 in respect of EU Political Expenditure.
Review of Effectiveness Although the directors are seeking shareholders approval for the next three years, as The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer consider that any with previous annual approvals, the Group has no intention of changing its current policy controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only and practice of not making political donations and will not do so without the specific reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.
The Board seeks the approval on a precautionary basis, to Groups management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the avoid any possibility of unintentionally breaching the Act.
Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, in identifying the companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do Directors Indemnities materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate The Companies Audit Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 came into to the benefit.
force on 6 April 2005 and, amongst other things, changed the provisions of Section 310 of the Companies Act 1985 to give companies the power to extend indemnities to The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer confirm that they have directors against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and the disclosure controls and to pay directors legal costs as incurred provided that they are reimbursed to the and procedures through the monitoring process set out above, which as noted Company if the individual is convicted or, in an action brought by the Company, separately on page 55 does not include any statement of compliance with section 404 judgment is given against the director.
Accordingly, the Company sought and obtained 56 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 shareholder approval at the AGM in July 2005 to amend its Memorandum and Articles of telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, as part of its Association to give it authority to provide funding for directors defence costs.
Following review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
that approval, the Company indemnified its directors and will indemnify new directors to the extent permitted by legislation.
In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, policies have been adopted to provide for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of all permitted non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Should there be an immediate requirement Auditors for permitted non-audit services to be provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP which have Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee and, in accordance with section not been pre-approved by the Audit Committee, the policies provide that the Group 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte Audit Director will consult with the Chairman of the Audit Committee for pre-approval.
& Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the AGM.
In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte & Touche LLP are also employed where, as In their assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance with the US a result of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the Independence Standards Board Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder Committees, the Audit Committee receives in writing details of relationships between circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory filings and business acquisitions and disposals.
Deloitte & Touche LLP and the Company that may have a bearing on their Other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
independence and receives confirmation that they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws administered by the SEC.
During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP and its affiliates charged the Groups subsidiary undertakings 4 million 2005: 4 million for audit services and a further 4 million In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of both the 2005: 3 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis of these fees can be found in level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, including those in the note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Report from the Audit Committee The composition of the Audit Committee is shown in the table on page 54 and its terms External auditors of reference are discussed under Committees of the Board The Audit Committee.
The Committee reviewed the letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP confirming their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed and pre-approved the scope of non-audit During the year ended 31 March 2006, the principal activities of the Committee were as services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there was no impairment of follows: independence.
The Committee pre-approved the scope and fees for audit services provided by Deloitte Financial statements & Touche LLP and confirmed the wording of the recommendations put by the Board to The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Group the shareholders on the appointment and retention of the external auditors.
Financial Controller on the half-year and annual financial statements.
It also considered reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on the scope and outcome of Private meetings were held with Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there were no the annual audit.
restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items the auditors did not wish to raise with management present.
The financial statements were reviewed in the light of these reports and the results of that review reported to the Board.
Internal audit The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the Group Audit Departments audit Risk management and internal control plan for the year, together with its resource requirements.
Private meetings were held The Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control with the Group Audit Director.
environment, its risk assessment process and the way in which significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group Audit departments reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant frauds and any fraud that involved Audit Committee effectiveness management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness annually and concluded this year that it was effective and able to fulfil its terms of reference.
The Committee also reviewed and approved arrangements by which staff could, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
This was achieved through using existing reporting procedures and a web site with a dedicated anonymous email feature.
Dr Michael Boskin On behalf of the Audit Committee Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 57 Governance
