VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GOVERNANCE MARKETPLACE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY HEALTH AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENT 32 RECOGNISING THE WISHES OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS PARTNERING MEANS LISTENING, RESPONDING AND THEN ACTING TOGETHER.
THE GOODWILL AND TRUST OF OUR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS GIVES US OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE AND OUR EMPLOYEES ARE THE ENGINE THAT DRIVES OUR SUCCESS.
About this Corporate Responsibility report Private shareholders The period covered by this report is the 12 months to As a result of the companys evolution many private March 2006.
The framework of the Global Reporting shareholders are also current or former employees.
Initiative GRI has guided the scope and content of The company wishes to encourage employee this 2005 06 CR report.
In developing our reporting shareholding and the board committed the company to incrementally, we are focussing on those areas of providing employees with a Share Incentive Plan, which greatest importance to our stakeholders, giving particular was launched in June 2005.
The annual general meeting consideration to our employees.
The detailed content will again be held in the Southampton area as this is of the report this year has a focus on our UK operations convenient for a significant number of employee and has only limited coverage of our joint ventures.
They are actively encouraged to attend the AGM.
The company recognises that communication with Our future CR reports will be guided by feedback from all its smaller shareholders and those without internet of our stakeholders and by our business strategy and will access is less than perfect and will strive to improve this also better cover the full scope of our operations.
For those with internet access the company can be contacted through links on its website.
Understanding the wishes of our stakeholders In the Marketplace and Workplace sections of this report, The AGM we describe our approach to listening to, and partnering All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders with, our customers, suppliers and our employees.
are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet the directors informally afterwards.
Institutional shareholders The company is required to have a dialogue with The results of votes on all resolutions put to the AGM shareholders and it adopts a pro-active approach to its will be available on the companys website, together with major institutional shareholders, both current and details of proxy votes cast for each resolution, whether or prospective.
Regular visits are made to institutions not a poll is demanded.
offices and there are frequent reciprocal visits to the groups premises.
Comment and opinion from shareholders and their representatives is regularly Stakeholder Feedback: Now You Tell Us... provided to directors.
The Chairman visited major How did we do this year?
The Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate What could we improve?
What do you wish to see in our future with institutional investors through analysts briefings and Corporate Responsibility reporting?
investor meetings as well as making timely stock exchange announcements.
com Write to us: Barbara Harrison, CR Feedback, VT House, Grange Drive, Hedge End, Southampton, SO30 2DQ Call us: 44 0 23 8083 9001 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 33 DEMONSTRATING INTEGRITY 33 Our Trading Ethics Export Control Compliance In the past year we have further developed our The group ensures that, as appropriate, it respects the Anti-Corruption Policy, including our policy on the export controls of the UK Government, the European appointment of international agents and our Code Community, the US Government and any other relevant of Ethics and Conduct.
We are carrying out training national control.
throughout the group, both to clarify the groups The VT Group believes that it is in the interests of us all approach to ethical trading and to ensure support that the controls are effective and that full compliance and assistance to our employees in the field.
Each business has responsibility for implementing export controls, we ensure that information Corruption is kept current, that employees are appropriately trained Corruption is illegal and highly damaging to societies and that each operating business has internal compliance and to businesses.
VTs policy states, in simple terms, procedures.
We are routinely audited by the DTIs export what we all believe to be right that corruption will not control compliance unit.
No other policy or business target of the group takes precedence over this rule.
Detailed reporting on Corporate Governance is on pages 54 to 57.
To this end we ensure clear guidance is available on the management of agents and consultants.
We keep a record of payments made by the company: we operate a Whistleblowers line with direct access to the Audit Committee CEO and full support to employees reporting their legitimate concerns even if such concerns turn out to be groundless.
Gifts to employees are subject to a strict code for declaration, as are entertainment and hospitality.
The VT Group does not make political donations.
Our charitable donations are carried out as an integral part of our community relations policies, donations are approved via the group charity committee and a record kept of all monies disbursed.
