VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 p52-67 13 6 06 14:25 Page 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance with the Combined Code As at 15 May 2006 the board comprises Mr Jeffries, chairman, Mr Paul Lester, chief executive, five Throughout the period of this report the board has been independent non-executive directors and two executive in compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate directors.
Mr Andrew Given is the senior independent Governance as issued in July 2003 as applicable under director.
Biographies of the directors, giving details of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
their experience and main commitments are set on out The Code requires listed companies to report how the pages 50 to 51. main and supporting principles of the Code have been It is intended that Mr Chris Rickard be appointed to the applied, giving sufficient detail to enable shareholders to board as finance director on 1 July 2006 and a resolution evaluate the report and to state whether there has been to re-appoint him will be presented to the annual general compliance with the provisions of the Code and providing meeting.
an explanation for any points of non-compliance.
54 The board holds full meetings at least seven times a year, Directors spread across the full calendar year.
In addition there is a separate meeting each year to discuss the strategic plan.
The board The directors believe that these meetings enable the The Code requires the company to have an effective board to exercise control over the group and remain fully board whose role is to provide leadership within a conversant with its activities.
There is a formal schedule framework of controls which allow risk to be assessed of matters reserved for the board which only the board and managed.
The board sets strategic aims and the itself can change: these matters include the acquisition companys values and ensures that obligations to and disposal of businesses, significant contractual shareholders are met.
The role of non-executive directors commitments and a review of risk management includes the development of strategy, the scrutiny of processes.
management and ensuring the integrity of financial information and risk management systems.
The board The senior independent director meets with the other believes it has met these requirements.
non-executives directors without the chairman present at least once a year.
During the year Mr Martin Jay stepped down as chairman and retired from the board on 5 July 2005.
Mr Michael Directors and officers of the group have the benefit of a Jeffries was appointed to the board on 16 May 2005 and directors and officers liability insurance policy.
Mr Peter McIntosh resigned The attendance of the directors at board and committee from the board on 31 January 2006 following his meetings throughout the year was as follows: secondment to the CVF project.
Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Mr M Jeffries from 16 5 2005 8 8 0 0 Mr D M Barclay 8 8 4 4 4 4 0 0 Baroness Blackstone 8 8 6 6 0 0 Lord Boyce 7 8 4 5 0 0 Mr C J Cundy 8 8 Mr A F Given 8 8 4 4 6 6 0 0 Mr P J Lester 8 8 0 0 Mr P J McIntosh to 31 1 2006 5 6 Mr S E Tarrant 8 8 Mr D A Thorpe 8 8 4 4 6 6 Mr M Jay to 5 7 2005 1 1 The number in brackets indicates the maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 p52-67 13 6 06 14:25 Page 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairman and Chief Executive Information and professional development The Code requires that there should be a clear division of A main principle of the Code is that information of responsibilities between the running of the board and sufficient quality is supplied to the board in a timely executive responsibility for the running of the business so manner.
The board is supplied with detailed information that no one person has unrestricted power.
several days prior to the board meeting.
The agenda for each board meeting includes substantial reports on all The board has met this requirement by establishing aspects of the groups business and ad-hoc reports are clearly defined roles for the chairman and chief executive.
circulated if decisions are required between formally This division of responsibilities is set down in writing and arranged meetings.
Non-executive directors have ready agreed by the board.
The chairman is responsible for the access to executive directors.
Board meetings are held at leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness and different company locations during the year as well as at setting its agenda.
Once the strategic and financial the head office, enabling directors to make site visits.
55 objectives have been agreed by the board as a whole, Non-executive directors make site visits during the year it is the chief executives responsibility to ensure their and executive directors carry out regular business reviews delivery.
The schedule of relative responsibilities is at different locations throughout the year.
available on the companys website or on request.
The chief executive is obliged to comply with a practical All newly appointed directors are provided with a schedule of matters requiring board approval before structured induction programme which includes meetings implementation.
both internally and externally with those principally involved with the business.
Board balance and independence Ongoing training for directors is provided for all directors The company complies with the requirements of the to ensure that directors are aware of their responsibilities.
Code that there should be a balance of executive and non-executive directors so that no individual or small All directors have access to the advice and services of group can dominate decision taking.
The board has met the company secretary and are able to take independent the Code requirement that at least 50% of the board professional advice at the companys expense.
should be independent throughout the year.
Performance evaluation In deciding the chairmanship and membership of board The Code requires the board to undertake a formal and committees the need to refresh membership, as well as rigorous evaluation of its own performance annually and the skills of the individuals, is taken into account and a that of its committees and directors.
review of the composition of board committees was A formal evaluation was conducted by means of detailed undertaken during the year.
questionnaires which were completed by each director, All non-executive directors are considered by the board both for the board as a whole, for each committee and to be independent.
on the performance of the chairman.
The answers At the time of his appointment as chairman, and in formed the basis of a one on one feedback session compliance with the Code, Mr Michael Jeffries was between each director and the chairman and senior considered to be independent.
independent director, followed by a review of the whole board.
Comments were invited on a wide range of issues Processes are in place to ensure that, in the event of a including board and board committee skill and balance, conflict of interest, this is reported to the board and the frequency of meetings, access to management other director involved takes no part in the relevant discussion.
than executive directors, sufficiency of information, Appointments to the board achievement of objectives, operational issues and monitoring, dialogue with shareholders, rigour of There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made on merit meetings and working relationships.
Spencer Stuart were Re-election retained as consultants for the appointment of Mr Jeffries Under the Code directors should offer themselves for and Heidrick and Struggles were retained for the re-election at regular intervals and all the directors submit appointment of Mr Rickard.
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Directors stand for reappointment by the shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and subsequently at least every three years.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of three years and may be reappointed for a further term of three years by agreement of the board.
On appointment each non-executive director receives a letter setting out the terms of their appointment.
Non-executive directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business of the group.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 p52-67 13 6 06 14:25 Page 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Remuneration Nomination committee Information regarding the remuneration committee is set Members during the year were: Mr M M E Jeffries Chair out on page 58 and the Directors Remuneration report is Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, Mr D M Barclay, on pages 58 to 65.
All directors appointments are considered before Board committees formal approval by the board and the committee aims The board has the following standing committees: each to maintain a proper balance between executive and has its own terms of reference which are available on non-executive directors in accordance with the Code.
request and on the companys website.
The committee leads the process for identifying and The company secretary is secretary to each committee.
recommending candidates for appointment as directors, Audit committee giving full consideration to succession planning and 56 Members during the year were: Mr A F Given chairman, the needs of the group, including qualifications and Mr D Barclay and Mr D A Thorpe.
The finance director expertise to guide the strategy of the group.
Before and representatives of the external auditors attend by concluding arrangements with any preferred candidate invitation.
The committee meets at least twice a year for appointment to the board, the committee satisfies and at least once a year there is an opportunity for the itself that their other commitments are not such that external auditors to discuss matters with the committee would adversely affect their ability to devote adequate without the executive directors being present.
The committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the board.
It also makes The board has determined that the committee members recommendations to the board on the composition of have sufficient skills and experience to contribute the board committees.
meaningfully to the committees discussions.
The chairman of the committee has the required experience The committee meets when required.
No-one other than in accounting and financial management.
members of the committee is entitled to be present at its meetings but non-executive directors are invited The committee has set parameters so that the to attend.
independence of the external auditors is not prejudiced when undertaking non-audit work.
Depending on the The committee has access to such information and nature of the work it is either prohibited or requires prior advice as it may require both from within the group and approval from the finance director or committee, as externally, and at the cost of the company.
The auditors are precluded from providing include the appointment of external search consultants.
accounting, internal audit and valuation services but may The procedures were used in the appointment of provide other services including due diligence and tax Mr Jeffries as chairman and the proposed appointment compliance with the approval of the finance director of Mr Rickard as finance director.
Independent search or audit committee.
In turn, the external auditors have consultants were used in connection with each in place processes to ensure that their independence appointment.
Mr Martin Jay, former chairman, was not is maintained.
involved in the selection of Mr Jeffries as his successor.
Remuneration committee The current commitments of Mr Jeffries outside the Members during the year were: Mr D A Thorpe VT Group are as chairman of Wembley National Stadium chairman, Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, Limited, National Car Parks Limited and Wyless Plc and Mr D Barclay and Mr A F Given.
as a non-executive director of fide la Rue Plc.
The committee is comprised exclusively of non-executive directors.
The chairman, chief executive and group HR director attend the committee, by invitation, when appropriate.
No executive is present when the committee considers matters relating to himself.
Mr Jeffries is absent when his remuneration as chairman is under consideration.
The committees responsibilities are described in the remuneration report on page 58.
The committee meets periodically when required but not less than twice a year.
It has access to information and advice both from within the group and externally, at the cost of the company, as it deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive remuneration.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 p52-67 13 6 06 14:25 Page 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Accountability and audit The processes used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls include Financial reporting the following: The board is required to present a balanced and annual budgets are prepared for each operating comprehensible assessment of the groups position and business and compared with monthly management prospects and is satisfied it has met this obligation.
reporting, which focuses on actual performance A summary of the directors responsibilities for the against these budgets: financial statements is set out on page 66. management reports and internal and external audit Organisation reports on the system of internal controls and any The group has a defined structure in which operational material control weaknesses that are identified: management have detailed responsibilities and levels of 57 authorisation.
The group has a code of business ethics discussions with management including discussions on the actions taken on problem areas identified by board setting out principles to be followed by all employees in the course of business.
A confidential telephone line is members or in the internal external audit reports: available for staff to report concerns with regard to policies and procedures for such matters as delegation conduct.
of authorities, capital expenditure and treasury management as well as regular updates: Ethical trading Further information on the groups ethical trading policies review of the adequacy of the level of experienced and is given in the corporate responsibility report on page 33. professional staff throughout the business and the expertise of individual staff members so that they are Internal controls capable of carrying out their individual delegated Following the publication of the Turnbull guidance, responsibilities: the board confirms that the group has established review of major tenders which are specifically approved processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating by the board and contract performance which is and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
regularly reviewed and compared against estimates The processes have been embedded into the fabric of drawn up at the time of original tender: and the group and have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual review of the external and internal audit work plans.
The groups management operates a risk management The board is ultimately responsible for the groups system process which identifies the key risks facing each of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The process is based on each business unit The role of management is to implement board policies producing a risk register which identifies the potential key on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is risks to the individual business unit, the impact should designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of they occur and the action being taken to sufficiently failure of the achievement of business objectives.
Internal audit independently review pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only the risk identification procedures and control process provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against implemented by management, and report to the audit material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee review the assurance procedures, ensuring that an A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the reporting has been established which provides for a level of assurances required by the board.
documented and auditable trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across all group operations: Going concern they provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable the board.
This process is facilitated by internal audit, expectation that the group has adequate resources to which also provides a degree of assurance as to the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going Internal audit ensure that corrective action is taken to concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
