VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 29 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY RESOURCES, RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS 29 Resources The groups business is susceptible to changes in government policy, budget allocations and the changing The group aims to safeguard the assets that give it political environment, both in the UK and worldwide.
competitive advantage, being its reputation for quality The group has sought to mitigate this risk in recent years and reliability, its intellectual capital and its people.
by diversifying the service offering from a largely UK Reputation based defence orientated business to provision of a Codes of conduct operate across the group to provide broader range of services on an international basis.
a framework for responsible innovative and ethical The group is involved with complex long-term contracts yet commercial business practices.
Structures for which exposes it to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
accountability through operating units to managing The group has in place robust contract approval and directors and from them to the group board are management processes in order to identify and manage clearly defined.
Employees Going concern Information about our people is provided in the Corporate After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Responsibility report on pages 30 to 49. expectation that the group has adequate resources to Principal risks and uncertainties continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going The board is committed to ensuring that high quality concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
risk management systems are in place across the group.
The objective is to safeguard the interests of The operating and financial review and certain other shareholders, customers and staff through effective sections of this annual report contain forward looking management of corporate and operational risk.
statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business Management throughout the group uses a common circumstances occurring from time to time in the framework to identify and assess the impact of risks countries and sectors in which the group operates.
For each risk the likelihood and It is believed that the expectations reflected in these consequence are identified, management controls and statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a frequency of monitoring are confirmed and results reported.
wide range of variables which could cause actual results The group has produced risk registers for each division and to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
will use risk scores and software as part of its risk management process.
Action plans have been developed for key risks.
On behalf of the board PAUL LESTER CHIEF EXECUTIVE 15 May 2006
