Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board e the scope of the function and the findings of internal audit for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the reviews undertaken by  and the financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, Internal Auditor: integrity and accountability and in accordance with such existing f Corporate Governance Reporting: statutory and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
g the fees for Ernst & Young for 2006: Its duties are to: h the audit strategy for year end 2006 audit: and consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the i the fraud and error guidelines contained in IAS240.
auditors and the level of audit fee: Both the Group internal auditor and  discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: undertake their activities in conjunction with the Groups usual peer group review process.
review the draft interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval: The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual which is subject to review at least every five years and on their audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: ongoing work to ensure that the independence of the Groups discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial auditors is not threatened, particularly by the provision of noncontrols and any auditors recommendations for improvement: audit services.
Prior approval of the Committee is required where the expected cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed consider the findings of internal investigations and external auditors is in excess of 75,000. managements response: The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policy is oversee the implementation of systems for financial control delegated to the group finance director who in turn monitors and risk management: the business units to ensure that all engagements fall within the pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: Committees guidelines.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young in respect of taxation advice of nil 2005: 0.5m and audit and assurance review the internal audit programme and its implementation: services of 1.0m 2005: 1.0m in respect of 2006 were receive and review internal audit reports: approved by the Committee.
The Group maintains a whistle blowing policy in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King.
The other confidential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where they members of the Committee are Christopher Clarke and Michael believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
The secretary to the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Complaints can be made either In addition the chief executive, group finance director and the to line managers or directly to the company secretary who will internal and external auditors also attend each meeting.
The appoint an investigating officer.
Action will be taken in cases Board is satisfied that Stephen King has recent and relevant where the complaint is shown to be justified and at all times the financial experience.
complainant is informed of progress and outcomes.
In addition, The Committee has the ability to call on the Groups staff to the auditors Ernst & Young can be brought in to review procedures assist in their work and also has access to independent advice.
The whistle blowing policy is published on the The chairman of the Committee receives additional remuneration Group intranet.
for his duties, details of which are set out on page 34.
The The Committees terms of reference are available from the Committee meets each January, March and August and at other company secretary on request and can also be found on the times as appropriate.
During the March meeting the Committee Companys website.
undertakes a full review of the audit with the Groups auditors.
There were three meetings in 2006.
In the course of 2006, the Committee discussed the following matters: a operational issues identified by the auditors in both their Stephen King audit and interim review: Chairman of the Audit Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board b the Internal Audit Charter and Strategy: 21 March 2007 c the Group Risk and Control Framework: d the Group accounting policies: The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 29
