Corporate Governance Statement The Combined Code A formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board is The Company remains committed to the highest standards of undertaken annually.
This process is conducted internally based corporate governance and manages its affairs in accordance with on a detailed questionnaire completed by each director and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined individual and collective discussions.
The senior non-executive Code issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003. director, as part of this appraisal process, also meets with the other During the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2006, the Company directors as a group to consider the effectiveness of the Board.
complied with the Combined Code provisions.
This statement The evaluation examines the balance of skills of the directors, describes how the Company has applied the Combined Code.
the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate The Board governance and the operation and content of board meetings.
The Board comprises the chairman, chief executive, group finance The findings are used to assist the Board in its consideration of director, corporate services director and five non-executive directors, the opportunities for improvement in the performance of the all of whom are independent.
The Board meets regularly throughout Board and its directors.
the year with ad hoc meetings as necessary.
In the year to 29 During 2006, the Board also conducted an internal review of December 2006, the Board met seven times.
Meetings are held at the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the head office in Glasgow, London at the time of the Companys Committees incorporating a questionnaire covering such matters annual and interim announcements and at operating locations.
as the role and organisation of each committee, meeting The following table identifies the number of board and committee arrangements, information provision and effectiveness.
Following meetings held during the past year and the attendance record of completion of these questionnaires by the members of each individual directors.
committee, the chairman met with the respective chairmen of the Committee Meetings Audit and Remuneration Committees to discuss the feedback.
The Board results of this evaluation were reported to the Board and, where Meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination areas for improvement had been identified, actions were agreed.
of meetings in year 73 43 Additionally, a one-to-one appraisal of all board members is Sir Robert Smith 7 3 undertaken annually, including the chairman, whose appraisal Christopher Clarke 7 3 4 is carried out by the senior non-executive director.
1 Keith Cochrane 4 Michael Dearden 7 3 4 3 There is an agreed procedure for directors, where appropriate, Stephen King 7 3 to take independent professional advice on any matter at the Alan Mitchelson 7 Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for Professor Ian Percy 7 4 3 ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors have 2 Chris Rickard 3 direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Lord Robertson 6 2 The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating the Mark Selway 7 3 induction and professional development of the board members 1 Appointed to the Board on 3 July 2006 and information flows within the Board, its committees and 2 Resigned from the Board on 30 June 2006 between the non-executive directors and senior management.
There is an agreed list of matters which requires to be authorised Directors appointed to the Board other than at an annual general by the Board, such as the approval of the Group strategic plan, meeting of the Company are required to retire at the following Group budget and risk management strategy.
Major acquisitions annual general meeting when they may offer themselves for election.
and disposals, as well as major capital spend, are authorised by One third of the remaining members of the Board or, where that the Board and are subsequently monitored by the Board after number is not a whole number, the nearest lower whole number execution.
The Board also approves the issue of full year and are required to retire by rotation, subject to all directors submitting interim reports.
themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In line All directors bring their own independent judgement to all major with best practice under the Combined Code, any director who matters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors is has held office for more than nine years is required to submit considered by the Company to be independent.
his presence on the Board for a period of more than nine years, On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation the Board considers Professor Percy, who continues to be a on the Company and its activities.
New directors are provided member of the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination with an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, Committees, to be independent in character and judgement.
site visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training He brings a wealth of experience to the Boards deliberations and is provided as necessary.
is considered to be free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with his independent judgement.
26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 The views of executive directors are not limited to those operational General Administration Committee or functional areas for which directors have prime responsibility.
The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are Board and committee papers are sent to directors in sufficient time to allot shares under the various share option schemes and other before meetings and any further back-up papers and information matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises executive are readily available to all directors on request to the company members of the Board and meets as required.
The chairman ensures that non-executive directors Principles of business conduct are properly briefed on any issue arising at board meetings and As an international company, the Groups approach to maintaining non-executive directors have access to the chairman at any time.
high ethical standards is critical to its business success.
The Groups The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate.
The Operating Policies, which provide guidance in this area, have been chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board is effective in communicated throughout the Group through its intranet.
A copy its task of setting and implementing the Companys direction.
The is available from the Group secretariat.
These policies are reviewed chief executive is responsible for management of the business and on a regular basis.
developing the appropriate organisational structure for a global Shareholders organisation.
The chief executive chairs the Group Operations The Company maintains regular dialogue with its shareholders.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations The non-executive directors are independent of management.
of full year and interim results.
Feedback from these presentations None of the non-executive directors has any material business or is reported to the Board, which gives investors an opportunity to other relationship with the Company.
Each member of the Board comment on the quality of the communications they receive in has considerable experience at senior level in other companies, their contact with the chief executive and group finance director.
which allows for well informed and broadly based debate.
The Attendees at the results presentations include the chairman, the Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates executive directors and the senior non-executive director.
Professor Ian Percy has been Company also encourages communication with private shareholders designated the senior non-executive director to whom any throughout the year and welcomes their participation at shareholder concerns can be conveyed.
In addition to the chairmans statement at the annual general meeting, a trading update to shareholders is given and The executive directors have contracts of service with one details of the Companys trading activities are on display.
The years notice, whilst non-executive directors are appointed directors attend the annual general meeting when the chairmen on a rotational basis for periods of up to three years.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are Board committees available to answer questions.
Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders all of which have written terms of reference, which are available at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company on the Companys website.
The company secretary acts as conducts the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic secretary to all these committees.
poll and the result of the votes including proxies is published The principal board committees are the Audit Committee, on the Companys website after the annual general meeting.
the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee Communications details of which are contained on pages 29 to 36.
The Board considers that the annual report and financial statements Group Operations Executive Committee and interim statements present a balanced and understandable The Group Operations Executive Committee is responsible for assessment of the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively to information which any company is under a legal or regulatory and that the operational objectives of the Group, as approved by requirement to publish, the Group frequently publicises other the Board, are achieved.
Its role includes the preparation of the business developments through the national or specialised press or Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business in its own newspapers and bulletins which have wide circulation.
performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional maintaining reporting systems providing clear and consistent company information, is regularly updated and includes the information on all aspects of business performance, managing presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary full year and interim results.
The website also contains an online mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional version of the notice of the annual general meeting, the annual co-ordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career report and financial statements and the interim report.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
The Group Operations Executive Committee meets each month.
Its membership comprises the chief executive, group finance director, corporate services director and the four divisional managing directors.
In the year to 29 December 2006, the Group Operations Executive Committee met 12 times.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 27 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Internal control The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, of internal control during the year.
This is refined as necessary to the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
Regular evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group performance reports are provided to the Group Operations companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2006 Executive Committee and or the Audit Committee or the Board.
and up until the date of this report, except that it did not apply Where weaknesses are identified, plans and timetables for to the Groups material joint ventures and associates.
As part addressing them are also reported.
of the integration programme, Weir Gabbioneta only became In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other fully integrated into the Risk and Control Framework and procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of the Group system of internal control in February 2006. internal control are as follows: The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system Control environment of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board There is a clearly defined organisational structure within delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, which individual responsibilities are identified and monitored.
operating and monitoring both the system and the maintenance Businesses follow well understood procedures and are required of effective internal control in each of the businesses which comprise to comply with them.
In addition, each operating company is responsible for the operation of key internal controls and to formally assess Main control procedures the effectiveness of the internal control environment through The Group has identified a number of key areas which are the submission, twice yearly, of the financial scorecard.
subject to regular reporting to the Board.
These controls include procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for major An internal audit function is in place to review and challenge investments and transactions.
the effectiveness of key internal controls and to suggest relevant actions to address potential weaknesses.
The internal audit review Group-wide standards programme is based on a risk based approach that helps to There are, for application throughout the Group, operating prioritise resource upon the areas of perceived greatest risk to the policies and a standards manual which set out policies and Group.
This process is supplemented by a number of peer reviews procedures with which all Group companies are required to that seek to further monitor and evaluate the process of internal comply.
The manual is communicated to all Group operating control and share best practice around the Group.
companies through the Group intranet.
Internal audit and peer review reports are provided to the The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that each Group Operations Executive Committee as well as to the Audit company observes and implements the policies and procedures Committee which considers and determines relevant action in set out in the manual which was reviewed in 2006. respect of any control issues raised.
Information systems As part of the control framework, each Group operating company There is a comprehensive budgeting system in place with an and business prepares a Risk and Control Framework for their annual budget approved by the Board.
As part of this process, the operating companies systems provide directors with relevant and timely reports that prepare a report identifying the relative probability and severity of identify significant deviations from approved plans and include the risks identified, the process for managing and mitigating these regular re-forecasts for the year.
risks and the means by which management might be assured that The Groups internal control procedures described in this the processes are effective.
These frameworks are considered and section have not been extended to cover its interests in joint approved by the chief executive, group finance director and the ventures and associates.
The Group has board representation Group Operations Executive Committee.
In addition, a Group on each of its joint venture and associate companies where Risk and Control Framework is prepared, taking account of the separate systems of internal control have been adopted.
significant risks identified by the individual units together with other group-wide risks.
The Group Risk and Control Framework is considered and adopted by the Board which is responsible for the risk management strategy.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006
