Governance 46 Directors report continued Corporate governance The group has a number of policies and procedures, which The board is committed to high standards of corporate are published on the groups intranet systems and which governance and supports the Combined Code on inform employees of the groups approach to a range of Corporate Governance the Code published in July 2003. issues such as equal opportunities, dignity at work, family The statement below, together with the remuneration friendly working and compassionate leave.
Procedures report on pages 51 to 58, are intended to show how the are in place to deal with allegations of misconduct, board has applied the main and supporting principles harassment, bullying and other inappropriate behaviour.
of the Code and confirms that it has been in compliance with the Codes provisions throughout the year except The group continues to invest in the development of its as explained in the two reports.
employees with more than 3.8 million being devoted to skills and basic management development and leadership.
The board Morrison Utility Services Limited, Morrison Facilities The board of AWG currently comprises the Chairman, Services Limited and Purac Limited have achieved Investors Group Chief Executive, one Executive Director and four in People status.
Non-Executive Directors details on pages 42 and 43.
A Sharesave Scheme and a Sharebuy Plan are in place to The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are encourage participation in the groups performance and separate and clearly dened.
The duties of each are set both schemes are open to all eligible employees.
out in writing in their respective contracts.
No further division of responsibilities has been set out in writing The group values diversity within its workforce and or approved by the board.
has put in place processes to ensure that it is an equal opportunities employer.
All job applications, including The Chairman, Peter Hickson, is responsible for the those from disabled persons, are fully and fairly working of the board.
He leads the process of board considered, having regard to the aptitudes and abilities evaluation and ensures there are constructive relationships of the applicant.
In the event of disability, every effort between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
is made to ensure that employment continues and appropriate training is given.
Career development and The Group Chief Executive, Jonson Cox, is responsible the promotion of disabled people, is, as far as possible, for the management of the group and its business.
identical to that of other employees.
He ensures that an appropriate business strategy is developed for board approval and that this is effectively Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors implemented and monitored, with guidance and direction So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant being given where appropriate.
audit information of which  LLP PwC are unaware, and the Directors have taken all the Bill Cockburn was the Deputy Chairman and Senior steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order Independent Director until his resignation on 22 January to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 2006.
Roger Witcomb became the Senior Independent and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in ofce The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and a resolution proposing its re-appointment will be and experience to the group and all are considered put to the AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Joint Company Secretaries, Patrick Firth and Claire The notice convening the AGM to be held on 26 July Russell, are responsible for advising the board on 2006 is included with this document, together with governance matters and ensuring that board procedures an explanation of the business to be conducted at are complied with.
They are also responsible for the meeting, form of proxy and an e-communications facilitating the induction and professional development leaet duplicate mailing form.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretaries.
During the year the By order of the board procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice at the groups expense was reviewed and amended Patrick Firth to allow any Director to seek such advice.
Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel 30 May 2006 Registered Ofce: Anglian House, Ambury Road, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE29 3NZ Registered in England and Wales No.
com 47 Role of the board Performance evaluation The role of the board is to determine overall strategy and During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation business objectives: to ensure that the necessary capital of its own performance and that of its major committees, resources are available to meet objectives: to maintain an including a focus on individual performance, which effective risk management system: to monitor performance identied no major concerns.
This exercise was facilitated and consider compliance, corporate responsibility and by an external body and included a written questionnaire health and safety matters: and to ensure that responsibilities on collective performance and individual contribution.
to shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
Objectives have been set for the board and board A schedule of matters reserved to the board and a committees against which performance is measured scheme of delegation to executives and subsidiary boards on an annual basis.
provides a clear framework enabling the board to exercise leadership and manage risk.
The types of decisions Committees of the board reserved to the board include approval of financial Nomination Committee statements, returns to shareholders, consideration of The current members are Peter Hickson Chairman, significant contracts and the appointment of Directors.
Jonson Cox, Roger Witcomb, Andrew Carr-Locke, Frances Decisions delegated to management include day-to-day Heaton and Jim McKenna.
operational matters and contracts for services below a xed value.
In September 2005, a statement of Business The Committees Terms of Reference, which are published Standards, which addresses the groups values and on the companys website, www.
com, include a duty standards, was adopted.
to make recommendations for the appointment and removal of Directors, and to ensure that succession Attendance at board meetings during the year was as planning is in place for Directors and senior management.
follows: All board appointments have been subject to full board Number of Total eligible approval of candidates recommended by the Nomination 1 meetings attended meetings Committee.
The Committee considers candidates against objective criteria and takes into consideration the overall Peter Hickson 16 16 2 balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board.
Bill Cockburn 711 Jonson Cox 16 16 The board met, without Jim McKenna, to consider his Scott Longhurst 15 16 re-election.
The board also met to consider the possible Andrew Carr-Locke 16 16 appointment of another Non-Executive Director to provide Frances Heaton 14 16 3 the board with the right balance of skills, knowledge Sue Lyons 10 15 and experience.
The board did not consider it necessary Jim McKenna 10 16 4 to use an external search consultancy in this case and Roger Witcomb N A N A 5 accepted the re-election of Jim McKenna for a third Roy Pointer 00 term and the appointment of Roger Witcomb as a 1 There were 10 scheduled meetings and 6 other meetings held by the board Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
at short notice to deal with specic matters such as the disposal of Morrison Construction Services Limited.
Members of the board attended the majority Except in the case of Roger Witcomb, who was appointed of these meetings in person or by telephone.
Occasionally the short notice in 2006, letters of appointment for Non-Executive of such meetings prevented attendance when other xed commitments had Directors do not set out the expected time commitment, been made.
because all the Non-Executive Directors had been 2 Until 22 January 2006. appointed before this requirement was introduced.
Non-Executive Directors have an agreed time commitment 4 Roger Witcomb was appointed as a Director on 27 April 2006. of 25 days a year which will be included in their contracts when they are next reviewed.
5 Roy Pointer served on the board until his resignation as a Director on 26 April 2005.
No board meetings were held between 1 and 26 April 2005.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance 48 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Additionally, PwC carefully consider each piece of work Details of the membership and role of the Committee offered to ensure that acceptance would not impair and of the groups remuneration policy are disclosed in independence and report annually on this issue to the the remuneration report on pages 51 to 58.
The report for the year under review, which was accepted by the Audit Committee, concluded Audit Committee that PwC was independent and that its objectivity was Current members and other Directors who served on the not impaired.
During the year the Committee: Committee during the year are shown in the attendance table below.
Considered and recommended approval of 2004 5 final and 2005 6 interim financial statements and Number of Total eligible returns to shareholders.
committees attended committees Considered the effectiveness of the external auditors.
Reviewed the external and internal audit reports and Frances Heaton Chairman 4 4 management responses to recommendations Andrew Carr-Locke 4 4 1 contained therein.
Bill Cockburn 33 Considered significant litigation throughout Jim McKenna 4 4 2 the group.
Roger Witcomb N A N A Reviewed the internal control framework and 1 its effectiveness.
2 Recommended the re-appointment of PwC Appointed on 27 April 2006. as external auditors at the 2005 AGM.
The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive The Committee also reviews the arrangements by which Directors all of whom are considered by the board to be group employees may, in confidence, raise concerns independent.
The Chairman of the Committee is Frances about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other Heaton.
Andrew Carr-Locke is a qualied accountant matters so-called whistleblowing procedures and is and considered to have recent and relevant financial responsible for ensuring that arrangements allow experience as Group Finance Director of George proportionate and independent investigation of such Wimpey Plc.
matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Committee meets at least four times each year.
Financial reporting Its Terms of Reference, which are published on the The groups financial position and prospects are companys website, www.
com, include reviewing presented in a number of ways during the year to ensure the integrity of financial information and assessing the shareholders and potential shareholders can make a effectiveness of financial controls and risk management balanced assessment of the company.
this included: The Committees duties include consideration of the A presentation on the adoption of International effectiveness of the groups internal audit function and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS a copy of which that of the external auditors and recommendations to is available on the companys website, the board on the external auditors remuneration.
The Committee has also approved a policy on the Annual Report and Accounts, which includes independence of the external auditor and its provision an operating and financial review and statements of non-audit services.
on Directors responsibilities and going concern.
Relationships with  LLP PwC, Pre-close period trading statements.
the groups external auditors, are dealt with largely Announcements regarding developments and through the Group Finance Director.
In addition, PwC contract wins that may affect the share price meets with the Audit Committee at least annually without of the company are made as and when necessary.
the presence of executive management.
They also have Reports to Ofwat regarding the regulated water regular meetings with the Chairman and direct access to business including the Annual June Return, the the Audit Committee and senior employees.
Procurement Plan and the Special Agreements Register.
PwC has provided non-audit services during the year in accordance with the groups policy on these services.
That policy states that the external auditor will only be used for non-audit work where it is demonstrably in the best interests of the group.
com 49 Internal control The system of internal controls seeks to manage risk and The group has been in compliance with the Turnbull can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance provisions regarding internal controls throughout the year against mis-statement or loss.
The process for dealing and ongoing monitoring of its effectiveness has been in with any failure of the internal control system would place throughout the year and up to the date of approval generally be to prepare a mitigation plan and to establish of this report.
Internal control is executed through the ownership.
The Risk Monitoring Committee and the Audit Audit Committee, Internal Audit, and the Risk Monitoring Committee would then monitor progress against Committee, which together review the overall business this plan.
Key components of the control framework include the schedule of matters reserved to Internal audit the board, the scheme of delegation, the group finance The group has had an internal audit function in place manual and other group policies and standards.
The function is outsourced to Ernst & Young which gives access to a wider range of The group finance manual and other policies provide experienced auditors.
The Audit Committee has various guidance to the operational businesses about delegated responsibilities in respect of this function including: authorities, independent review of transactions, the bidding process and project delivery.
The underlying Monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
controls are similar in Anglian Water, Morrison and AWG Considering its remit and resources.
Property, but the emphasis on aspects of control varies.
Reviewing and assessing the internal audit annual For example, in Anglian Water there is a higher priority on plan.
Operating divisions provide quarterly Reviewing internal audit reports and monitoring written conrmation of their compliance with financial managements response to any recommendations controls, and the central finance function also provides contained therein.
oversight of specic financial controls.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Within dened delegated authorities, operating Chairman of the Audit Committee when required.
The businesses are responsible for risk assessment and control.
internal audit plan, which is approved annually by the Both project-based and business risks financial and nonAudit Committee, focuses on the key controls and financial, including those of a social, ethical or material risks faced by the business.
The internal audit environmental nature are identied and dealt with in plan is supplemented by ad hoc audits at the request of this way through the management structure.
An annual the board and management.
Internal audit findings are statement of responsibility is signed off by the Chief reported to the Risk Monitoring Committee, the board Operating Ofcers and Finance Directors of each business, and the Audit Committee.
who have assured themselves that the operation of their internal control framework is effective.
The Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit Committee without the presence of executive Material changes in risk and control proles are discussed management.
at performance review meetings and the Risk Monitoring Committee.
Group finance provides further independent The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system review of projects at initiation and thereafter through to of internal controls in the group.
to be upgraded and refreshed as appropriate with due regard to the operational and external environment.
The Risk Monitoring Committee oversees risk management practice and the control response within the business Relations with shareholders and advises the Audit Committee of issues identied The group, largely through the Group Chief Executive and as required.
Group Finance Director, maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year.
This The Executive Directors report to the board material includes regular presentations, meetings and press changes in the business and the marketplace that are briengs to coincide with particular events, for example considered to affect the business risk prole.
the announcement of final and interim results and discussion of specic matters as and when they arise.
All group announcements are made available on the website, www.
com, which also contains corporate and customer information updated on a regular basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance 50 Corporate governance continued A report regarding investor relations is made by the In preparing each of the group and the company financial Group Finance Director to each regular board meeting to statements, the Directors are required to: ensure the whole board is kept informed of shareholder matters.
This report covers investor reaction to key Properly select and apply accounting policies.
announcements and events, a summary of analysts Present information, including accounting policies, reports, investor issues and meetings and share in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, performance.
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable During the year the Chairman met with two shareholders and prudent.
For the group financial statements provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users discuss with Executive and Non-Executive Directors any to understand the impact of particular transactions, issues they have concerning the company and its other events and conditions on the entitys financial activities.
Voting at the AGM is by way of a show of position and financial performance.
hands by members present at the meeting unless a poll For the company financial statements, state whether is validly called.
Details of the level of proxies lodged applicable UK Accounting Standards have been on each resolution, the balance for and against the followed, subject to any material departures resolution and the number of votes withheld are available disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Chairmans statement and the results of voting are published on the companys website after The Directors are responsible for keeping proper the meeting.
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Going concern company and enable them to ensure that the financial After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 as expectation that the group and company have adequate amended.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the resources to continue in operational existence for the assets of the company and for taking reasonable steps foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt for the prevention and detection of fraud and other the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial integrity of the AWG Plc website.
They are required to prepare the group on the website is accessible in many countries with financial statements in accordance with International different legal requirements relating to the preparation Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to and dissemination of financial statements, which results prepare the company financial statements in accordance in uncertainty regarding legal requirements.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of group accounts, IAS 1 requires that the financial statements present fairly for each financial year Patrick Firth the groups financial position, financial performance and Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel cash ows.
This requires the fair presentation of the 30 May 2006 effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
In the case of company accounts, company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company, each financial year.
