CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
In this report Company Secretary, Simon Barratt, explains how the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance are being applied on a daily basis.
Who is on the Companys Board of The Nomination Committee is Is there clarity between the roles of responsible for reviewing the structure directors?
the Chairman and Chief Executive?
and membership of the Board, making The Board currently consists of the There is a clear written division of recommendations to the Board, which are Chairman, three executive directors and responsibility between the Chairman and subsequently considered and ultimately four independent non-executive directors, Chief Executive.
one of whom has been appointed Senior The Chairman is responsible for: Independent Director.
Proles of each The Board is of the opinion that it is of director can be found on pages 14 to 15 an appropriate size for the requirements running the Board and setting of the Annual Review.
of the business, it has the appropriate its agenda: balance of skills, knowledge and ensuring, through the Company experience and that it has a good balance How did the Company arrive at the Secretary, that the members of the between executive and independent nonconclusion that four of its directors Board receive accurate, timely and clear executive directors.
information and that there is a good The Combined Code lists a number of ow of information: How does the Board operate and circumstances which might call the managing the Board to ensure what are its key responsibilities?
independence of a director into question.
that sufficient time is allowed for No such circumstances exist for any of the the Board met 11 times last year.
Before the discussion of complex or Companys non-executive directors.
each Board meeting directors are given contentious issues: timely and appropriate information, In addition, Anthony Habgood who joined including monthly financial and trading ensuring that the directors continually the Board as a non-executive director on reports.
The attendance records of update their knowledge and capabilities: 1 May 2005 was independent at the point individual directors can be found in the he became Chairman on 1 August 2005. ensuring that the members of the Board table on page 7: develop an understanding of the views all members of the Board take collective What are the terms of appointment of the major investors: responsibility for the performance of for independent non-executive the annual evaluation of the the Company and all decisions are directors?
performance of the Board and taken objectively in the interests of the Independent non-executive directors are its committees and implementing Company: initially appointed for a three-year term the action required following a schedule of matters reserved to the and may, under normal circumstances, such evaluation.
Board includes the oversight of key serve up to three such three-year terms.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: aspects of strategy and management, Their letters of appointment are available financial reporting and controls, for inspection at the Companys registered setting the strategic direction for the the management of shareholder ofce.
Company: communication, as well as the approval of policies and major transactions.
overseeing the day-to-day management How is the structure and The schedule can be seen in full of the Company: membership of the Board on the Companys website: determined?
the line management of senior www.
co. uk: executives, including the other executive Ultimately the Companys shareholders the Board oversees and approves the directors of Whitbread PLC and the determine Board membership at the Companys overall strategy and ensures Company Secretary: AGM.
All new directors are required to that the necessary resources are in stand for election at the AGM following the activities of the Leadership Group place in order to meet the Companys their appointment and existing directors a group of over 50 of the Companys objectives: must stand for re-election by rotation most senior executives: in accordance with the Articles the Board has responsibility for ensuring ensuring eective communication with of Association.
that the Companys obligations to its shareholders and employees.
PAGE 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT How is the Boards Do the directors update The new Chairman made himself available to shareholders and has held a number performance evaluated?
their knowledge and skills of meetings with some of the Companys on a regular basis?
The performance of the Board, and largest holders.
individual directors contributions to the The Board receives a quarterly investor Board, are appraised annually by the relations report which includes share price Recent topics of interest to investors have Chairman.
This year: performance, movements in institutional been the growth of Premier Travel Inn holdings and the response by institutions and integration of Premier Lodge and the each director completed a formal to the communications programme.
trading performance of Pub Restaurants questionnaire on the Boards and David Lloyd Leisure.
performance: During the year directors attended training courses and seminars, or received tailored Annual and interim results presentations the Chairman met or spoke to each training, on the following subjects: are webcast live so that all shareholders director on a one-to-one basis: can receive the same information at International Financial Reporting the results of the review were discussed the same time.
The Companys website Standards: by the Board and an appropriate action provides comprehensive information for plan was agreed.
economic trends: The performance of the Boards Private shareholders have the opportunity pensions: committees was reviewed during the year to put questions to the Board at the advanced management: in line with their terms of reference.
AGM, and at all other times by emailing or writing to the Company.
In addition, investment and fund management The performance of the Chairman was meetings were held with members of evaluated during the year by Rod Kent, board evaluation: and the UK Shareholders Association on a the Senior Independent Director, who periodic basis.
corporate governance discussed the Chairmans performance with each of the directors.
The results Any shareholder may contact the of the review were given directly to the Chairman, Chief Executive or, if more How do the Board interact with the Chairman by Rod Kent.
appropriate, the Senior Independent Companys shareholders?
Director to raise any issue, including those The Company recognises the importance relating to strategy and governance.
How does the Company ensure that of dialogue with both institutional and Alternatively, shareholders may raise any new directors are given the tools to private shareholders.
such issue with one or all of the nondo an eective job?
executive directors of the Company.
The Institutional shareholders, fund managers The Company Secretary is responsible Company Secretary can facilitate any such and analysts are briefed at regular for ensuring that, on appointment, communication if requested.
Regular new directors are given a formal and meetings were held with institutional individually tailored induction.
In the shareholders during the year, either one-toWhere can I nd details of the case of newly appointed non-executive one or as part of a larger grouping, both in Companys compliance with the directors this would typically include a the UK and abroad.
Combined Code in relation to number of visits to the Companys brands remuneration?
to enable a thorough understanding of the The Chief Executive and Finance Director businesses.
New directors are available to play an active part in these meetings.
Details of how Whitbread has applied meet major shareholders if requested.
Non-executive directors are oered the the main and supporting principles of opportunity to attend the meetings the Combined Code with regard to and would attend if required by major remuneration can be found in the Do the directors have access to shareholders.
remuneration report on pages 8 to 17. independent advice?
In addition, the table on page 6 All directors have access to independent contains details of the membership, professional advice at the Companys terms of reference and activities of expense.
In addition, directors have access the Remuneration Committee.
PAGE 4 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6 What board committees does the of the Chief Executive and Company a regular review by the Board of Secretary and reported to the Audit changes in the major risks facing Company have?
the Group and development of the The table on page 6 contains information appropriate action plans: relating to the Audit Committee, What is the Companys financial the Nomination Committee and the the consideration of risks and the reporting policy?
appropriate action plans, when The Board always strives to present a appraising and approving all major In addition to these three committees balanced and understandable assessment capital and revenue projects and change the Board has delegated authority to of the Companys position and prospects.
A post completion review the General Purposes Committee to deal This involves formal reports such as this, of each major project is undertaken: with business of a routine nature and other price sensitive public reports, reports other specic matters delegated to it by financial policies, controls and to regulators and any other information the Board.
The committee is made up of procedures manuals, which are regularly required by statute.
at least two directors designated by the reviewed and updated: Board and meets as required.
the limits of authority, which are Does the Company maintain adequate The following groups also meet: prescribed for employees.
Whitbreads systems of internal control?
organisational structure allows the the Main Board Committee comprises The Board is responsible for the Groups appropriate segregation of tasks: the executive directors together with the systems of internal control and for Company Secretary, Simon Barratt and reviewing their eectiveness.
These the Code of Business Ethics, which is meets at least monthly in preparation systems are designed to manage rather communicated to employees: for Board meetings: than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the operational audit function, business objectives.
They can only provide the Executive Council meets monthly to which reports on the eectiveness of reasonable, and not absolute, assurance consider Group-wide policies and issues.
operational and financial controls across against material misstatement or loss.
It is attended by the executive directors, the Group: the managing directors of each brand The Board has established an ongoing the Audit Committee regularly reviews and each of the functional directors.
process for identifying, evaluating and the major findings from both operational managing the Groups significant risks.
Further details can This process was in place throughout the How does the Company seek to ensure be found in the table on page 6.
2005 6 financial year and up to the date that its employees behave with of this report.
The process is regularly The Board has carried out a specic honesty and integrity?
reviewed by the Board and accords with assessment of the Groups systems of The Company takes the view that the internal control guidance for directors internal control for the purpose of this corporate governance is not a matter for in the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee has the Board or its committees alone and assisted the Board in discharging these Key elements of the Groups risk management has developed a Code of Business Ethics, responsibilities.
and internal control system include: which is briefed to all employees.
This covers dealings with customers, suppliers the formulation, evaluation and annual Do the members of the Audit and government ofcials: safeguarding approval by the Board of business Committee have recent and relevant the Companys assets: keeping accurate plans and budgets.
Actual results are and reliable records: and avoiding conicts financial experience?
reported monthly against budget and of interest.
Its principal message is that The Board considers that the membership the previous years gures.
Key risks are all employees must observe a code of of the Audit Committee as a whole has identied and action plans prepared conduct based on honesty, integrity and sufficient recent and relevant financial accordingly: fair dealing.
experience to discharge its functions, but the production by each business of a it has determined not to identify any single In addition the Company has a formal risks and controls matrix, covering major member as having such experience.
Under the risks and plans to mitigate those risks.
policy employees are able to speak to These matrices are considered by the an independent organisation and any Audit Committee: significant financial or control issues would then be brought to the attention CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PAGE 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Margaret Ewing Anthony Habgood Charles Gurassa Members of Committee Charles Gurassa Margaret Ewing Philip Clarke Rod Kent Charles Gurassa Margaret Ewing Rod Kent Rod Kent Alan Parker Summary of key The Committee dealt with: During the year the Committees During the year the Committee issues addressed main area of activity was Board dealt with: Group and brand internal during the year succession.
This included the changes to be made to senior controls and risk management: selection of Margaret Ewing and managers pensions in light of Philip Clarke as non-executive the Pensions Act 2004: approval of financial statements directors and the appointment of remuneration of the executive for the full and half year: Anthony Habgood as Chairman.
review of the eectiveness of In proposing these appointments the internal and external audit the Committee, or sub-Committee, functions: produced job specications, introduction of IFRS: appointed advisers and carried out interviews.
Following this process auditors independence: final recommendations were made operational audit plans and to the Board.
The full terms of reference of all three committees can be found on the Companys website and are also available by requesting a copy in writing from the Company Secretary.
PAGE 6 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6 Has the Company formally Attendance at meetings reviewed its corporate governance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination performance during the year?
Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 11 3 6 3 The Company Secretary produced a review 1 of the Companys corporate governance Anthony Habgood 8 2 procedures, which was considered by Alan Parker 11 3 the Board in January 2006.
The aim of Angie Risley 11 the review was to consider whether 1 Christopher Rogers 8 the Company was in compliance with 3 Philip Clarke 2 2 the Code at the date of the review.
The 2 Margaret Ewing 6 1 3 1 Board agreed that the Company was in Charles Gurassa 11 3 6 3 compliance with the Code at the date of Rod Kent 10 3 5 3 the review.
4 Sir John Banham 6 2 5 Stewart Miller 6 Has the Company complied 6 David Richardson 2 throughout the year with the 7 Prue Leith 5 2 3 2 provisions of the Combined Code?
David Turner 7 2 4 1 The Company has complied throughout 7 Lord Williamson 5 2 3 2 the year with the provisions set out in 1 Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Anthony Habgood and Christopher Rogers were appointed as directors on 1 May 2005.
Eight Board meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings were held after that date.
2 Margaret Ewing was appointed as a director on 1 July 2005.
Six Board meetings, one Audit Committee meeting, one Nomination Committee meeting and three Remuneration Committee meetings were held after that date.
3 Philip Clarke was appointed as a director on 1 January 2006.
Two Board meetings and two Remuneration Committee meetings were held after that date.
4 Sir John Banham resigned from the Board on 1 August 2005.
Six Board meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings were held up to that date.
5 Stewart Miller stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2005.
Seven Board meetings were held up to that date.
Simon Barratt 6 David Richardson stepped down from the Board on 30 April 2005.
Three Board meetings were held up to Company Secretary that date.
24 April 2006 7 Prue Leith and Lord Williamson stepped down from the Board on 14 June 2005.
Five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, two Nomination Committee meetings and three Remuneration Committee meetings were held up to that date.
In addition to the Nomination Committee meetings shown above, there were three Nomination sub-Committee meetings held during the year.
These meetings were fully attended, with the exception of one which was not attended by David Turner.
