Report of the Nomination Committee Membership and meetings Set out below is the current membership of the Nomination Committee together with the year in which membership commenced.
No changes have been made to committee membership during the period under review.
The majority of members of the committee are independent non executive directors and the committee is chaired by the Board Chairman.
Director Year of appointment Charles Scott, Chairman 2002 David Allvey 2002 Barry Gibson 2002 The Company Secretary, or one of the executive directors and the policy on multiple board appointments for committee members, acts as secretary to executive and non executive the Committee.
directors: The Committee meets as necessary but at Reviewed the role descriptions for least three times a year usually before or the Chairman, Chief Executive and after regular meetings of the Board and Senior Independent Non Executive met formally on four occasions during Director: 2006.
Approved the directors who would offer themselves for re-election at Role of the Nomination the 2006 AGM in accordance with the Committee articles of association: A full copy of the terms of reference for Approved the Report of the the Committee can be obtained via the Nomination Committee contained in website www.
co. uk or by the 2005 Annual Report and request to the Company Secretary and its Accounts: principal function is to carry out a formal selection process for executive and non Approved the revised process for executive directors and subsequently to board and individual director propose to the Board any new performance evaluation and the use of Egon Zehnder to assist with this appointments.
process: and The Nomination Committee oversees Reviewed and approved the succession planning for directors and restructuring of the Groups senior senior managers below Board level.
operating management leading to The Chairman of the Nomination the redundancy of Tom Singer as Committee reports to the Board on the Chief Operating Officer.
The Committee undertook a review of its own performance and terms of reference Main activities during 2006 during the period and the Committee During the period, the Committee made Chairman reported to the Board on the recommendations to the Board regarding outcome of the review.
its size, structure and Board and committee composition and, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Non Executive Director, led the process for reviewing, and, following such review extending the current Chairmans term of office for a further three years.
During 2006, the Committee also: Reviewed its previous recommendations regarding the time commitment required of non 30 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Report of the Nomination Committee
