Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Membership and meetings Main activities during 2006 Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Management The Committee has discharged its Committee together with the year in which membership commenced.
During the responsibilities during the period by period, all the members of the Committee were independent non executive directors.
Director Year of appointment Financial statements During the period, the Committee David Allvey, Chairman 2002 reviewed and discussed the financial David Edmonds 2005 disclosures made in the preliminary results announcement, Annual Report and Barry Gibson 2002 Accounts, Interim Statement and the other trading statements made by the Group together with any related The Company Secretary acts as secretary announcements relating to financial management letters, letters of performance: to the Committee.
Other individuals representation and reports from the attend at the request of the Committee Review the major risks affecting the external auditors.
Significant financial Chairman and during the period the Group and assist the Board with reporting issues and judgments were external auditors, Chief Executive, Group reviewing the effectiveness of the considered together with any significant Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit controls operating over the Groups accounting policies and changes and the Head of Financial Planning and financial and non-financial risks: proposed to them.
Control would usually attend meetings to report to the Committee and provide Review the nature and scope of the Internal control and risk management clarification and explanations where work to be performed by the The Committee has reviewed the Groups appropriate.
The Corporate Finance external and internal auditors, the internal control and risk management Manager, Head of Compliance and Head result of that work and systems and has received reports from a of Security have attended meetings as managements response, and their number of departments, and, where requested.
The Committee also meets effectiveness: appropriate, presentations from senior with the external auditors without management, on the major risks faced by Oversee the relationship with the executive management present on a the Group and the procedures established external auditors including making regular basis.
The Committee met on six to identify, assess, manage, monitor and recommendations to the Board occasions during the period and details of report on these risks.
The Committee has regarding their appointment or attendance at committee meetings is set reviewed and approved the statements removal and developing a policy out on page 27. regarding the provision of non-audit on internal controls on page 29.
Mr Allvey has recent and relevant financial services to the Group: External auditors experience.
He is a chartered accountant, The Committee has responsibility for Meet with the executive directors a former Group Finance Director of and management, as well as overseeing the relationship with the Barclays PLC and BAT Industries PLC and a privately with both the external and external auditors and approves the former member of the UK Accounting internal auditors: and external auditors engagement letter, audit Standards Board.
Mr Edmonds and Mr fee and audit and client services plan Gibson are both financially literate and Report to shareholders annually on including the planned levels of have significant general business its role and responsibilities.
The external auditors attend experience of executive roles in both each committee meeting and at least The Chairman of the Audit and Risk private and public organisations and annually meet with the Committee Management Committee reports to the details of each directors significant without executive management.
The Board on the outcome of meetings.
current and prior appointments are set Chairman of the Committee also meets out on page 14.
A formalised whistle-blowing policy and privately with the external auditors.
procedure for staff to raise issues Letters of representation are reviewed Role of the Audit and Risk regarding possible improprieties in prior to signature by executive Management Committee matters of financial reporting or other management.
matters has been established and was A full copy of the terms of reference for During the period, the Committee reviewed during the year.
It is the the Committee can be obtained via the received regular reports from the external responsibility of the Committee to website www.
co. uk or by auditors including a formal written report monitor its effectiveness and any request to the Company Secretary.
The dealing with the audit objectives: the notifications made.
Committees principal responsibilities auditors qualifications, expertise and are to: The Committee has access to the services resources: effectiveness of the audit of the Internal Audit and Company process: procedures and policies for Review and advise the Board on the Groups interim and annual financial Secretarial departments and is authorised maintaining independence: and statements, its accounting policies to obtain independent professional advice compliance with the ethical standards and to monitor the integrity of the if it considers it necessary.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements and The external auditors management letter 31 is reviewed, as is managements response The Internal Audit department acts under to issues raised.
The Committee monitors agreed terms of reference and the the ethical guidance regarding rotation of Committee has established a number of audit partners and a change in audit procedures to monitor and review the partner was made during 2004 when the Internal Audit departments effectiveness audit partner was rotated off the audit in using guidance from a self-assessment accordance with the latest guidance.
The questionnaire prepared by Internal Audit, new audit partner was appointed feedback from senior management and a following interviews with the Committee review of the Institute of Internal Auditors Chairman and the Group Finance Director Standards for the Professional Practice of and subsequent approval by the Internal Auditing.
assesses annually the resources the department has to complete its remit.
During the period, the Committee During the period, the Committee reviewed the Groups written policy commissioned a report from Deloitte on regarding the employment by the Group the Internal Audit Department in line with of former employees of the external the Institute of Internal Auditors auditors and the policy on non-audit standards.
The Committee reviews the services provided by the external auditors.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit The Committee approves any non-audit Department on an annual basis.
The work to be undertaken by the external Internal Audit department has auditors involving fees in excess of unrestricted access to all Group 25,000.
Where no committee meeting is documentation, premises, functions and scheduled within an appropriate time employees as required to enable it to frame, approval is sought from the perform its functions.
The appointment Committee Chairman and subsequently and removal of the Head of Internal Audit ratified at the next meeting.
All non-audit is the responsibility of the Committee.
The services provided by the external auditors Head of Internal Audit has direct access to are reported to the Committee at its next the Board and Committee Chairmen and scheduled meeting.
The external auditors is accountable to the Committee.
The are excluded from performing any day-toHead of Internal Audit meets regularly day accountancy work for the Group.
The with the Committee Chairman without policy also sets out the criteria to be executive management.
followed when considering whether external auditors should be engaged to Other activities undertake non-audit services with the aim During the period other significant of safeguarding the external auditors activities addressed by the Committee objectivity and independence.
were as follows: The Committee is satisfied with the The introduction of International performance of the external auditors Financial Reporting Standards: during the year, and the policies and A review of the Groups business procedures in place to maintain their continuity and disaster recovery objectivity and independence, and has strategy and ongoing reports on recommended that they be re-appointed changes to the business continuity at the forthcoming Annual General plans and their testing: Meeting.
Receiving the annual report from the Internal Audit Groups Head of Security regarding The Committee approves the annual audit the activity of his department: plan and internal audit methodology for A review of its own performance and the Internal Audit department and its remit.
monitors progress against the plan during the period.
Audit reports are circulated to Regular updates are provided to the the Committee members after each audit Committee on developments in financial and the Committee monitors progress reporting and risk management and against actions identified in these reports related legal and corporate governance and the external auditors management matters.
32 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
