Statement on Corporate Governance The directors are committed to high delegated authorities are reviewed and various sectors of industry and in the standards of corporate governance and approved by the Board annually.
They have access to all this statement sets out how the Board has reserved to the Board include, amongst information relating to the Group, the applied the principles set out in the July other matters: advice and services of the Company 2003 Financial Reporting Council Secretary who is responsible for ensuring Setting the overall direction, long-term Combined Code on Corporate that Board procedures are followed, and, objectives and strategy of the Group Governance the Code and identifies and as required, external advice at the and delegating day-to-day provides an explanation for any nonexpense of the Group.
management to the Chief Executive: compliance with the Codes provisions During the period, the Chairman met with during the period.
Reviewing Group performance: the non executive directors without the Reviewing the arrangements in place executive directors being present and as Compliance with the Codes relating to regulatory and industry part of the process to appraise the issues: provisions Chairmans performance the Senior Throughout the period, the Company has Independent Non Executive Director met Approving the appointment and complied with the provisions of the Code.
with Mr Allvey and Mr Edmonds, the removal of any board member and the The Board has also reviewed the revised other independent non executive Company Secretary: Combined Code published in June 2006 directors.
Reviewing and approving the terms of and is compliant with the provisions reference of the various board introduced by this revised document in so Chairman and Chief Executive committees and receiving reports from far as they are consistent with the There is a clear division of responsibilities committee chairmen on a regular provisions of the 2003 Code.
between the Chairman and Chief basis: Executive whereby the Chairman is Approving changes to the Groups The Board responsible for the running of the Board, capital structure: any significant The Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior and the Chief Executive has executive acquisitions and disposals: capital Independent Non Executive Director responsibility for the running of the investment projects and material and other directors, including those business.
During 2004, the Nomination contracts: considered by the Board to be Committee and the Board approved independent, are listed on page 14.
Approval of the Groups annual plan, revised role descriptions for these Details of Board and committee Annual Report and Accounts and individuals together with a written role attendance are set out on page 27.
Interim Statement, and setting the description for the Senior Independent Mr Lane was appointed to the Board on Groups dividend policy: Non Executive Director.
The Nomination 20 March 2006 and Mr Singer resigned on Committee and the Board reviewed these Approval of the Groups charitable 6 November 2006.
Appropriate insurance documents during 2006 to confirm that donations and Group-wide corporate cover is in place in respect of legal action they remained appropriate.
The Senior social responsibility policies: against directors.
Independent Non Executive Directors Undertaking reviews of board, main role is to satisfy the function Thomas Murphy was appointed Company committee and individual director outlined in the Code of being available to Secretary on 1 March 2006 following performance at least annually: and shareholders if there are concerns which Helen Granthams resignation to take up a position elsewhere.
Succession planning for senior normal contact has failed to resolve, to management and the Board on the lead the process for evaluating the The Board operates within a formal recommendation of the Nomination Chairmans performance and to chair the schedule of matters reserved to it.
Nomination Committee when it is powers are delegated to the various considering succession to the role of Board Committees and senior The authority delegated to senior chairman.
No one individual has management.
Details of the roles and management provides a practical unfettered powers of decision-making.
responsibilities of the Board Committees framework to executive management, are set out on page 28.
Papers for board which seeks to achieve the dual objectives Mr Scott satisfied the independence and committee meetings are circulated in of maintaining effective financial and criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the advance of the relevant meeting and operational controls whilst providing Code on his appointment as Chairman where a director is unable to attend he sufficient flexibility to manage the and details of his other significant continues to be provided with a full copy business.
Examples of areas of such commitments are set out on page 14. of the papers and has the opportunity to delegated authority include the release of He stepped down as a director of Massive comment on the matters to be discussed.
capital expenditure against approved Limited on 23 February 2006 and was budgets: treasury activity within approved appointed to the board of Flybe Group The Board considers that its primary role limits: payroll processing: property Limited on 1 April 2006. is to provide leadership to the Group, to transactions: LBO development activities: set the Groups long-term strategic the setting of bet acceptance limits and objectives and to develop robust Board balance, independence routine transaction processing.
corporate governance and risk and appointments management practices.
The Schedule of The Board comprises individuals with During the year, the Nomination Matters Reserved to the Board and wide business experience gained in Committee and the Board reviewed the 26 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement on Corporate Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 2006 Board and committee meetings Board Audit and Risk Corporate Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration 1 2 Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 1236446 Meetings attended Charles Scott 12 2 N A 4 4 N A David Allvey 12 2 6 N A 4 5 David Edmonds 12064 N A 6 Barry Gibson 12 2 6 N A 4 6 David Harding 12 3 N A 4 N A N A Simon Lane appointed on 20 March 2006 10 3 N A N A N A N A Tom Singer resigned on 6 November 2006 9 1 N A N A N A N A Notes: 1 The Board held 12 scheduled meetings including an off-site Strategy Day, with senior managers during the period and 3 ad hoc meetings held to consider specific issues 2 All directors, other than Mr Singer, attended all scheduled board meetings.
Non-attendance relates to ad hoc meetings called on short notice where directors were unable to attend due to conflicting commitments.
The figures shown in the table include both attendance in person and by telephone.
structure, size and composition of the determined by the Board to be professional development policy for Board together with an evaluation of the independent.
Boards balance of skills, knowledge and Appointments to the Board are the A formal induction programme has been experience : the membership of the responsibility of the full Board, on the developed by the Company Secretary and various board committees and the recommendation of the Nomination approved by the Chairman.
This was expected time commitment and policy for Committee.
On joining the Board, non implemented for Mr Lane during the multiple board appointments for executive directors receive a formal period following his appointment and executive and non executive directors.
appointment letter, which identifies the tailored as appropriate.
A range of both The directors aim is to ensure that the time commitment expected of them.
general and company-specific information balance of the Board reflects the changing A potential director candidate is required was provided in hard copy and this was needs of the Groups business.
In 2005, to disclose all significant outside supplemented by a series of meetings the Board identified the need for the commitments prior to appointment and with external advisers and employees.
appointment of a Chief Operating Officer the Board has approved a policy requiring Induction programmes are in place for to lead the programme for integration of disclosure and approval by the Board of appointment to the Board, the Audit and the Stanley retail business and to take all additional appointments for executive Risk Management Committee, the over day-to-day responsibility for the or non executive directors.
The terms and Remuneration Committee and the Groups operations.
Following the conditions of appointment of non Corporate Responsibility Committee.
successful conclusion of this project and a executive and service contracts of All directors have access to the advice and review of the Chief Executives executive directors are available to services of the Company Secretary.
The responsibilities and ongoing workload, shareholders for inspection at the Groups removal and appointment of the the role of Chief Operating Officer registered office during normal business Company Secretary is a matter reserved became redundant and Mr Singer hours and at the Annual General Meeting for Board approval.
The Board also obtains resigned from the Board in November for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and advice from professional advisers as and 2006.
With effect from this date, the Chief during the meeting.
Executive assimilated Mr Singers duties within his own role.
Mr Lane was Information and professional Performance evaluation appointed as Group Finance Director in development March 2006.
A process of performance evaluation of The Board receives detailed reports from the Board, its committees and directors is The Nomination Committee and the executive management on the undertaken on an annual basis and the Board will continue to monitor the Board performance of the Group at monthly process undertaken for 2006 involved the balance and skills at least annually.
board meetings and other information as following: necessary and senior management During the period, the Board included The four Board committees regularly make presentations to the Board three independent non executive conducting a review of their terms of on their areas of responsibility.
The number of directors during reference and considering a detailed updates are provided on relevant legal, the period comprised six directors for part questionnaire to assess committee corporate governance and financial of the period and seven directors for the performance: reporting developments and directors are remainder.
The Company satisfied the encouraged to attend external seminars One-to-one meetings between an Code requirements that at least half the on areas of relevance to their role.
The external adviser, Egon Zehnder, and Board, excluding the Chairman, should Board has approved an information and each director including the Chairman comprise non executive directors 27 and Senior Independent Non 2006 were announced at the relevant Relations with shareholders Executive Director and the Company general meeting and were made available The Board remains committed to Secretary to discuss Board and on the Groups website following the maintaining good relationships with both committee practices and to assess meeting.
The website also contains copies institutional and private shareholders.
individual director performance: of the Notices of Meeting and explanatory There continues to be a regular dialogue notes.
A separate resolution was proposed Following these initial meetings a with institutional shareholders, although on each substantially separate issue.
It is further discussion between Egon care is exercised to ensure that any priceintended to continue with these practices Zehnder and each director to provide sensitive information is released at the for 2007 and future shareholder meetings.
feedback from the earlier meetings: same time to all shareholders, in It is planned to post the Notice of the and accordance with the requirements of the 2007 Annual General Meeting to UK Listing Authority.
Slide presentations The performance evaluation process shareholders with the Annual Report and provided to institutional shareholders and concluded with a presentation by Accounts at least twenty working days analysts following the publication of the Egon Zehnder to the Board, prior to the date of the meeting.
Groups preliminary and interim results are summarising the main points arising made available on the Groups investor from their review and the approval of Board Committees relations website, www.
co. uk action to address issues raised.
and a recording of the results The Remuneration Committee, the The Senior Independent Non Executive presentations can be accessed via Nomination Committee, the Audit and Director led the process for the evaluation telephone for a period following the Risk Management Committee and the of the Chairmans performance, with the meeting.
Corporate Responsibility Committee, are assistance of Egon Zehnder as outlined standing committees of the Board.
The Chairman is available to discuss above, and concluding with a meeting strategy and governance issues with The terms of reference of the Committees, with the other independent non shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the Senior including their objectives and the executive directors and feedback to the Independent Non Executive Director, is authority delegated to them by the Board, Chairman.
available to shareholders if they have are available upon request or via the concerns that have not, or cannot, be Groups investor relations website Re-election addressed through the Chairman, Chief www.
co. uk and are All directors are subject to election at the Executive or Group Finance Director.
reviewed at least annually by the relevant first annual general meeting following Meetings between the Chairman, Chief committee and the Board.
All committees their appointment by the Board.
The Executive and or the Company Secretary have access to independent expert advice.
Companys Articles of Association state and shareholders have been held on Appointments to Board committees are that each year one third of directors request to discuss governance and for three-year terms extendable by no should retire by rotation but that if a corporate responsibility issues generally.
more than two additional three-year director has at the start of the Annual terms.
The Group obtains feedback from its General Meeting been a director for more broker, Citigroup, on the views of than three years since his last reAudit and Risk Management institutional investors on a non-attributed appointment, he shall retire.
In practice, basis and the Chief Executive and Group Committee this means that every director stands for Finance Director communicate the issues The role and operation of the Audit and re-election at least once every three years.
and concerns of major shareholders to the Risk Management Committee is set out in The Board explains the reasons why it Board.
As a matter of routine, the Board its report on pages 31 to 32. believes each director should be elected receives a monthly report from Citigroup or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting for on issues relating to recent share price Nomination Committee the next Annual General Meeting.
As performance, trading activity and The role and operation of the Nomination referred to above, those directors who institutional investor sentiment.
The Board Committee is set out in its report on held office during the period have been also receives copies of relevant analysts page 30. subject to formal performance evaluation reports on an ad hoc basis.
and the Board believes that their The Board regards the Annual General performance continues to be effective Remuneration Committee Meeting as an important opportunity to and to demonstrate commitment to their The role and operation of the communicate directly with all relevant role.
Their re-election is also Remuneration Committee is set out in the shareholders.
Board members, including consistent with the Boards evaluation of Directors Remuneration Report on pages the chairmen of the Remuneration, the size, structure and composition of the 17 to 25.
Nomination, Audit and Risk Management Board.
and Corporate Responsibility Committees, attended the 2006 meeting and intend to Corporate Responsibility Remuneration attend the forthcoming meeting and will Committee The Directors Remuneration Report is set be available to answer questions.
In order Details of the membership and areas of out on pages 17 to 25. that shareholders are aware of the other key focus of the Corporate Responsibility shareholders voting intentions, the details Committee are set out in the Corporate of proxy votes for the meetings held in Responsibility section on pages 33 to 40.
28 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement on Corporate Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 cost of, and benefit from, internal control assessment process involving executive Internal control systems.
The The Board has overall responsibility for the output from this process is summarised in The Board regularly reviews the actual Groups internal control systems and for an annual audit plan, which is approved and forecast performance of the business monitoring their effectiveness.
Executive by the Audit and Risk Management compared with the annual plan, as well as directors and senior management are Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit other key performance indicators.
responsible for the implementation and reports regularly to the Group Finance maintenance of the internal control Lines of responsibility and delegated Director and the Audit and Risk systems, which are subject to periodic authorities are clearly defined.
The Internal policies and procedures are regularly The role of the Internal Audit department Audit department maintains a database updated and distributed throughout the and the scope of its work continue to recording the system of internal controls Group.
The Audit and Risk Management evolve to take account of changes within in every division and department Committee receives reports on a regular the business and emerging best practice.
basis on compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The Board monitors the ongoing process Going concern by which critical risks to the business are No significant failings or weaknesses were The directors have prepared the financial identified, evaluated and managed.
This identified as a result of the review of the statements on a going concern basis process is consistent with both the effectiveness of the Groups system of consistent with their view, formed after Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, internal control.
making appropriate enquiries, that the and the revised guidance issued by the Group is operationally and financially Financial Reporting Council in October Assessment of risk robust.
2005, and has been in place for the period A corporate risk matrix has been under review and up to the date of developed and has been updated approval of the Annual Report and following detailed review by Internal Accounts.
Audit and senior management during the Each year the Board assesses the period.
The matrix is approved annually effectiveness of the Groups system of by the Audit and Risk Management internal controls including financial, Committee and the Board.
The matrix operational and compliance controls and records the key risks facing the business, risk management systems on the basis of: the assessment of the likelihood of the risks crystallising and their potential Established procedures, including materiality, and the Groups response to those already described, which are in each risk.
Responsibility for management place to manage perceived risks: of the risks is attributed typically to senior Regular reports by management to management.
the Audit and Risk Management The Board uses the control and risk Committee on the adequacy and management processes to identify and effectiveness of internal control manage any significant risks arising from systems and significant control issues: social, environmental and ethical issues.
The continuous Group-wide process Further details of the Groups corporate for formally identifying, evaluating and responsibility practices are described on managing the significant risks to the pages 33 to 40. achievement of the Groups objectives: and Internal Audit Reports to the Audit and Risk The Internal Audit department reviews Management Committee on the the extent to which systems of internal results of internal audit reviews and control are effective: are adequate to work undertaken by other manage the Groups significant risks: departments.
safeguard the Groups assets: and in conjunction with the Company Secretary The Groups internal control systems are and General Counsel, ensure compliance designed to manage, rather than with legal and regulatory requirements.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the It provides independent and objective Groups objectives, and can only provide assurance on risks and controls to the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Board and senior management.
against material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable Internal Audits work is focused on areas assurance, the Board considers the of greatest risk to the Group, as materiality of financial and non-financial determined by a structured risk risks and the relationship between the 29
