Corporate governance statement The Board is fully committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and supports fully the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, where applicable, describes how the Board has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code.
The Board considers that throughout the year ended 31st December 2006 the Company has been in compliance with the main and supporting principles of the Code.
The Board also considers that throughout the year under review the Company has complied with the Codes provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Mr D W Wilson, four other Executive Directors and five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are Mr I Robertson Group Chief Executive, Mrs E J Aikman Group Finance Director, Mr G H Locke Chief Executive David Wilson Homes and Mr N H Richardson Managing Director Wilson Bowden Developments.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
A list of Directors is included on pages 14 and 15 of the Annual Report, together with their biographies and details of the committees of which they are members.
The Board is satisfied that this balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years subject to compliance with Code requirements.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms and may be invited to serve for an additional term.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors seek election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and that one third of the Directors shall retire by rotation each year but, if at the start of an Annual General Meeting they have been in office for more than three years since their last appointment or re-appointment, they shall retire.
Details of the Directors who will be standing for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting are set out in the Directors Report on page 17.
To achieve maximum effectiveness, the Board accepts that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive need to be separated and clearly defined.
Accordingly, the Board has adopted a written policy statement that defines the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and creating the conditions for ensuring that the Board and each individual Director performs effectively both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and overseeing the Groups day-to-day operations.
The Board, along with its legal advisors, has paid close attention to the governance implications of the review commissioned by the Wilson family and related trusts of the future of their shareholdings in the Company.
The matter was considered at eight Board meetings during the year.
In addition a Committee of the Board, chaired by Dr A D Portno and comprising Mrs E J Aikman, Mr A J Giles and Mr I Robertson, was established to attend to procedural matters.
The Board had regard to potential conflicts of interest affecting Mr D W Wilson but considered it appropriate for him to participate in all Board meetings where relevant issues were discussed during the year.
However, Mr D W Wilson absented himself when appropriate.
As Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Dr A D Portnos principal responsibilities are to provide independent advice to the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive: to facilitate communications between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors: and to ensure that the views of the Non-Executive Directors are given due consideration.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or to address their concerns for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board has a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, which combined with the way the Groups management is structured, ensures that the decision making process is not concentrated with any one individual or small group of individuals.
Upon appointment to the Board, Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme and are provided with relevant information on the Company.
During their induction programme, new Directors have the opportunity to meet with key executives below Board level and other employees in order to obtain a sound knowledge and understanding of the Group and its business operations.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 21 Corporate governance statement continued As required by the Code, the Board conducts a rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance.
The process adopted during the year under review was closely based on the guidance set out in the Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice and involved the completion of a questionnaire by all members of the Board.
The results of the process were analysed and evaluated by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The conclusion drawn from the process was that the Board had performed effectively.
Each Board Committee undertook a similar evaluation of its own performance and concluded that it had performed effectively during the year under review.
The Board employed a similar process to review the performance of each individual Committee.
The Board reached the conclusion that each Board Committee had performed effectively.
On one occasion during the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors, under the chairmanship of Dr A D Portno, met on one occasion without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 and 34.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but serve the Company under letters of appointment, which make no provision for loss of office.
These are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Current term expires Mr D E Brill February 2008 Mr P J Byrom November 2007 Mr A J Giles September 2007 Mr I P Lough August 2007 Dr A D Portno November 2007 The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus, share or pension schemes.
During the year the Board met on nine separate occasions to discuss financial, operational and strategic matters.
Attendance at Board meetings is shown in the following table, together with the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Boards principal committees.
In addition to the meetings noted below, the Board also met for a full day in June to review and develop the overall business strategy for the Group.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Mrs E J Aikman 3 3 - 1 - - - - Mr D E Brill 9 9 4 4 7 7 2 2 Mr G M Brown 9 9 - 4 - 6 - - Mr P J Byrom 9 8 4 4 7 7 2 2 Mr A J Giles 9 9 4 4 7 7 2 2 Mr G H Locke 4 4 - - - - - - Mr I P Lough 9 8 4 3 7 6 2 2 Dr A D Portno 9 9 4 4 7 7 2 2 Mr N H Richardson 9 9 - - - - - - Mr I Robertson 9 9 - 4 - 2 - - Mr N J Townsend 2 2 - - - - - - Mr D W Wilson 9 9 - 4 - 7 2 2 Note Meetings which the Director attended, in whole or in part, by invitation.
All Directors are subject to an annual review of their performance to ensure that their contribution to the Board continues to be effective and constructive.
Each Executive Directors performance is evaluated against an agreed schedule of objectives.
For Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for a period of greater than six years a more rigorous appraisal procedure is conducted, as envisaged by the Code.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 22 Corporate governance statement continued For the year under review, the Chairman and Chief Executive evaluated each individual Executive Directors performance: the Chairman appraised the performance of each Non-Executive Director: the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman being present to assess the performance of the Chairman: and the Chairman appraised the performance of the Chief Executive.
The Board is pleased to confirm that all Directors were found to be effective and committed to their respective roles.
The Board regularly re-evaluates the mix and experience of its members.
The Code states that the Board should determine whether each Non-Executive Director is independent in character and judgment.
The Board should state its reasons if it determines that a Non-Executive Director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may affect his independence.
The Code sets out circumstances that may be relevant when the Board determines whether a Director is independent.
These include whether the Director has served on the Board for more than nine years.
After carefully considering the issue of independence the Board has decided that there are a range of behaviours that a Director must demonstrate in order to be determined to be independent.
These behaviours include: Constructive challenge of the Groups management Challenging of assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints of management for the benefit of the Group Questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously and decides dispassionately A good understanding of the Groups operations which enable him to evaluate objectively information and explanations provided by the Groups management Mr D E Brill, who was appointed to the Board in 1997, is proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr D E Brill has continued to demonstrate the behaviours set out above and there is no evidence that length of service has affected his independence.
The Board is of the opinion that his knowledge of the Group and of the industry enables him to provide both an effective challenge and a positive contribution to the Boards discussions.
The Board therefore considers that Mr D E Brill continues to be independent.
Having considered the requirements of the Code, the Board has confirmed Mr D E Brills nomination for reelection at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has reviewed and re-affirmed that the other Non-Executive Directors are independent in character and judgment and that they meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Operation of the Board The Board has identified in writing various matters that are reserved to it for consideration, which include approval of the annual and interim results: decisions regarding the Groups strategic direction: corporate acquisitions and disposals: entry into joint venture arrangements: approval of the annual budget, operating plans and key performance indicators: major items of capital expenditure: financing strategy: significant changes in accounting policy: capital structure: dividend policy: Board structure, composition and succession: approval of the Groups Health and Safety and Environmental policies: and the review of the Groups risk management procedures.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to committees of the Board, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference and report directly to the Board.
Additional information on the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees is given below.
All Directors receive regular and timely information on the Groups operational and financial performance.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are briefed and receive information on issues to be discussed at Board meetings.
All Directors also have access, as appropriate, to independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense.
The Board has access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed: that there are good information flows between the Board and its committees, and between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: and that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme and are provided with relevant information on the Company.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 23 Corporate governance statement continued Shareholders A detailed review of the performance and financial position of the Group is included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 1 to 4, together with the Group Chief Executives Review on pages 5 to 8 and the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 9 to 13.
The Board uses this information to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and its prospects.
The Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements are described on page 38 in respect of the Group and page 68 in respect of the Company.
The Company ensures that there is sufficient two-way communication with its institutional and private investors, based on the mutual understanding of objectives, in order to enable it to understand their issues and concerns.
The Company has an established structured investor relations programme, based on formal announcements and publications covering the full year and interim results.
There are associated briefings for stockbroking analysts and investors.
Company announcements and presentations are published simultaneously on the Companys website, which also contains other corporate information, and is updated regularly.
During 2006, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director held 40 individual meetings with major shareholders.
All Directors receive formal reports and briefings during the year regarding the Companys investor relations programme, through which they are able to develop an understanding of major shareholders views, issues and concerns regarding the Company.
If shareholders wish they may, via the Company Secretary, contact the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting, at which all Directors, including the Chairmen of the Boards Committees, are available to answer questions.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to meet with the Directors and senior members of the Groups management team in an informal environment after the Annual General Meeting.
Board committees The Board delegates certain matters to its three principal committees, which deal with remuneration, audit and nominations to the Board and senior executive roles.
Each committee has written terms of reference, which set out the role and authority delegated to it by the Board, and are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Groups website.
Each committee conducts an annual review of its terms of reference and makes such suggestions for alteration, as it deems necessary, to the Board.
All committees are provided with sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Details of the composition and operation of the committees are given below.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Dr A D Portno and comprises the five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets as necessary and met on seven occasions during the year under review.
Access to Mr D W Wilson, Mr I Robertson, other Directors and external advisors is available as required.
The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the Board the framework of remuneration for the Executive Directors and Chairman.
It has responsibility for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Further details of the Remuneration Committees activities are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 37.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr P J Byrom and comprises the five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets as necessary and met on four occasions during the year under review.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors attended the Committees meetings by invitation.
Mr P J Byrom, who is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and Mr I P Lough, who is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, are determined by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and the Board believes that other members of the Committee have the relevant experience to enable them to serve on the Committee.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 24 Corporate governance statement continued The Audit Committee assists the Board in seeking to ensure the integrity of information supplied to shareholders in relation to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and for the examination of significant financial reporting judgments contained therein.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups system of internal financial controls and risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
In so doing, the Committee reviews the scope and planning of the Group Head of Internal Audits programme and considers the findings and recommendations of his reports.
The Committee has access to the Group Head of Internal Audit as and when required.
The Committee meets with the external auditors to review the interim statement and the full year Annual Report and accounts.
During the year under review the Committee met on one occasion with the external auditors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Committee holds responsibility for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditors and for ensuring the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee regularly considers the external auditors independence, objectivity, and also discusses with them the proposed nature and scope of their work before the audit commences.
The Committee regularly monitors fees paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit services.
In addition, the Committee assesses the external auditors compliance with UK ethical guidance regarding the rotation of the engagement partner.
The external auditors attend the Committees meetings and may request that a meeting be convened.
The external auditors and the Group Head of Internal Audit are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, at separate meetings with the Audit Committee or its Chairman.
In order to discharge its duties the Committee addressed a wide variety of issues during the year under review, which included, but was not limited to review of: The 2005 Annual Report and accounts and the 2006 Interim Statement.
As part of that review the Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit of the Annual Report and accounts The effectiveness of the Groups internal controls The scope of the work undertaken by the external auditors The proposed programme of work and the effectiveness of the internal audit function The reports received from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the work undertaken by the Internal Audit Department and managements responses to recommendations made in the audit reports issued by the Department during the year The Groups Whistleblowing policy The non-audit services which may be provided by the external auditor The appointment of former employees of the external auditor The Committee also considers the Groups compliance with the Code.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has confirmed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr D E Brill and comprises the five Independent Non-Executive Directors, together with Mr D W Wilson.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for leading the process of nominating individuals for senior appointments in the Group and for making recommendations to the Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience are maintained on the Board and elsewhere in the Group.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when required and met on two occasions during the year under review.
Before making an appointment, the Committee satisfies itself that the candidate will be able to devote sufficient time to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
The Committee has access to such information and advice from within the Group and from external sources, as deemed appropriate, at the Companys expense.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 25 Corporate governance statement continued Internal control The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and for confirming that they are operating effectively.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company has been in place throughout 2006, and up to the date on which the 2006 Annual Report and accounts were approved.
This process, which addresses financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
In conducting these reviews, the Board has taken into consideration the following key internal control processes used across the Group: Each business unit prepares risk assessments that encompass operational, compliance, financial and business risks.
These assessments are updated on an ongoing basis by business unit senior management, who seek input from operational staff as appropriate, to fully reflect those risks currently being faced.
A risk assessment is similarly prepared for the Group that addresses central functions and strategic risks.
The Audit Committee at its meetings periodically reviews these risk assessments.
A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting for the Groups operations is in place, with particular focus on cash flow and profitability.
This is updated monthly and provides appropriate, timely information on the performance of the business as well as projections and sensitivity analysis for the outlook period.
This information is monitored in the local operations and also centrally.
The Groups key financial control functions are centralised, which allows for high-level input and provides control over the Groups diverse operations.
The Group operates a centralised Treasury function, which operates under specific, clearly defined guidelines established by the Board, to whom it reports regularly.
All significant breaches of internal controls are reported to both the Audit Committee and to the Board.
The Group has formulated a Whistleblowing policy, details of which have been circulated to all employees and appear on the Groups intranet.
The policy offers the names of the Group Chairman, the Group Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary as contacts for persons wishing to use the procedure to raise concerns on a confidential or anonymous basis.
The Committee has ensured that arrangements are in place such that concerns raised through the Whistleblowing procedures are proportionally and independently investigated and that, if appropriate, follow up action is taken.
The Internal Audit Department has an established audit plan that is approved, regularly reviewed and updated by the Audit Committee.
The work of the Department includes the detailed review of systems and controls, the prior review of significant changes to systems and controls, the review of risk assessments, value-for-money investigations and other ad hoc projects as deemed appropriate across all areas of the Group.
The findings arising from this work are reported to the Audit Committee at each of its meetings and to the Groups external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on the outcome of the Committees meetings to the Board, which is also provided with all minutes of the Committees meetings.
As part of the bi-annual review of internal controls, certain members of senior management within individual business units complete self-certifications in which confirmation is provided that, as far as possible, controls and safeguards are being operated in line with established procedures and standards.
In addition, the Board receives collective assurance from the Boards of David Wilson Homes and Wilson Bowden Developments.
These processes are supplemented by the requirement to include details of current internal control issues in reports to management at both plc and subsidiary board level.
This ongoing focus seeks to embed internal control and risk management into the operations of the business, as well as to provide a timely opportunity for the Board to deal with areas of improvement that come to its attention.
Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the Groups internal controls framework and for the effectiveness of its operation, the Board strongly believes that, as a result of the Groups commercial and geographical diversity, senior management within individual business units should also contribute in a substantial way to the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, managing and transferring risk.
Responsibility for ensuring that current controls are reviewed and that appropriate controls are established is also devolved to operational management.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 26 Corporate governance statement continued The Groups risk management process is designed to ensure adequate stewardship of assets, the provision of relevant, accurate and timely information to run the business and the maintenance of proper accounting records.
Internal control procedures are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve these objectives and can only provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Where appropriate the risk management process will include the purchase of appropriate insurance cover.
The Groups control and monitoring procedures are subject to regular review and the Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls to ensure that they are keeping pace with operational and organisational change and the business environment in which the Group operates.
Relationship with the external auditors The Audit Committee keeps under regular review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and has established a policy for the award of non-audit work to the external auditors.
The policy distinguishes between those services which the external auditors would normally be engaged to provide: those which they may provide but where the Group also uses other suppliers of such services: those which can only be provided after prior approval by the Audit Committee and where additional safeguards may need to be implemented: and those which they are prohibited from providing.
Details of the non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the year under review are set out in note 3 to the Group financial statements on page 49.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the procedures they apply to satisfy all professional and regulatory requirements together with best practice guidelines in order to ensure their independence from the Company.
R G Douglas BSc Econ FCA Company Secretary 2nd March 2007 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 27
