Corporate governance Introduction agreed budget.
The Board receives a monthly update on performance and The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance reviews significant variances on a monthly basis.
All major investment and supports the principles laid down in the revised Combined Code on decisions are subject to post-completion reviews.
Corporate Governance the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are In line with agreed procedures, the Chairman has conducted interviews with applied and reports on the Companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
each Director and assessed their individual performance.
The Chairman has carried out an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of Board of Directors each Committee and led by the senior non-executive Director, the nonThe Board currently has eight members, comprising the non-executive executive Directors have assessed the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, a further Executive conclusions of those assessments have been presented to the Board by the Director and four further non-executive Directors.
All of the Directors bring Chairman and the senior non-executive Director.
The evaluation process is strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size designed to cover Board processes, the structure and capability of the Board, and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be strategic alignment, Board dynamics and the skills brought to the Board by appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The non-executive Directors each Director.
are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take, at the Companys provision A.
3.1 of the Code, that could materially interfere with the exercise expense, independent professional advice if necessary.
In addition, the of independent and objective judgement.
The Company considers that, on Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision Secretary, who is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures A.
3.1 of the Code and furthermore the preceding comments regarding are followed.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary freedom from business or other relationships also apply to him.
The nonis a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary and HR Director executive Directors have each been appointed for a three-year term.
The take joint responsibility for preparing and implementing an induction programme senior non-executive Director is D A Edmonds.
for Board appointees, including guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company and business familiarisation.
There was one appointment to the Board during the year: on 21 October Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting sites in both the UK and 2005, J Cox was appointed as a non-executive Director.
Also during the year elsewhere in Europe giving the Directors the opportunity to meet senior the Company entered the FTSE 250.
At all times since then there has been a managers around the business.
They also have the opportunity to discuss majority of non-executive independent Directors on the Board, in compliance organisational, operational and administrative matters.
Every Director has with Combined Code provision A.
3.2. access to appropriate training as required subsequent to appointment.
The Company provides Directors and officers insurance cover, in line with normal The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 18 and market practice, for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the 19.
The Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK listed performance of their duties.
companies or, in the case of Dr W Hasselkus, German listed companies and have substantial experience in business.
The non-executive Directors do not The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged.
participate in any of the Groups pension schemes or in any of the Groups A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
All Directors must stand Chairman and Chief Executive respectively and adopted by the Board.
The for election at the first AGM after they are appointed.
The Articles provide non-executive Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the that all Directors will stand for re-election at least every three years.
Board and ensuring that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved.
The Board is responsible for high-level decision making and approval of significant The Board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the expenditure and there is a formal listing of matters reserved for Board approval.
The Board normally meets 10 times each financial year and has The Board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the Chief Executive, a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including the the Group Finance Director and the HR Director who are responsible for the approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions day-to-day running of the business, carrying out the agreed strategy and and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments.
The implementing specific Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
Secretary maintains a record of attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings, further details of which are set out on page 22.
The non-executive Board Committees Directors held separate meetings with the Chairman during the year without There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various the Executive Directors being present.
The Committees all have formal Terms of Reference that have been approved by the Board and that are available for inspection.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Brief details are set out below: Board or Committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make The Nomination Committee comprises D A Edmonds and G McFaull, under a decision or give its approval.
Reports are presented to the Board periodically the chairmanship of A D Malpas.
The committee meets as necessary and is on matters such as health and safety, pensions, insurance and treasury.
responsible for considering and recommending to the Board persons who are Other specific business-related presentations are given when appropriate.
appropriate for appointment as Executive and non-executive Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least Directors to the Board.
This process involves the Nomination Committee annually, by the Board of medium-term plans and annual budgets for business interviewing suitable candidates who are both proposed by existing Board units.
Each business unit reports monthly on its performance against its members and by an external search company.
Careful consideration is given Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Corporate governance continued to ensure that appointees have enough time available to devote to the role It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that an appropriate and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is relationship is maintained between the Company and its Auditors.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Company has a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the Chairman, the senior non-executive Director will chair the Committee instead external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
This control is exercised by chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board and the ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed 150,000, appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following are subject to the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and recommendation from the Committee.
If non-audit project fees are expected to exceed 250,000 the prior approval of the Board is required.
The Committee meets at The Remuneration Committee comprises J Cox, P G Cox, Dr W Hasselkus least three times each year.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the and A D Malpas, under the chairmanship of D A Edmonds.
It is responsible, outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all within a framework established by the Board overall, for setting the Audit Committee meetings.
remuneration of senior executives, including the Executive Directors and senior management.
It is also responsible for granting executive options, The Audit Committee has met three times in the year and discharged long-term incentive plan awards, pension rights and any compensation its responsibilities as set out above through the matters considered at packages and determining the terms of any compensation package in the those meetings.
event of early termination of the contract of any Director or senior executive.
It meets at least three times a year.
Full details of its activities and of Directors Attendance at meetings remuneration are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 24 to The Company Secretary maintains a register of attendance of Directors at 27.
Those pages detail compliance with the legal requirements with regard to Board and Committee meetings and the record of attendance during the year remuneration matters.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the outcome ended 31 March 2006 is as follows: of meetings to the Board.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee The Audit Committee comprises J Cox, D A Edmonds, Dr W Hasselkus and 3 1 1 P Bateman 824 2 A D Malpas under the chairmanship of P G Cox, who is the former Chief 4 P H Brown 9 n a n a n a Financial Officer and currently the Chief Executive of International Power plc 1 G D Connell 10 n a n a 3 and, as such, he has the requisite recent and relevant financial experience.
6 1 1 G McFaull 10 n a 1 1 The Committee is responsible for: 1 1 N Sullivan 10 n a 5 1 5 V W Benjamin 4131 reviewing the annual and interim financial statements before they 2 J Cox 3 n a22 are presented to the Board: 1 P G Cox 9 2 42 D A Edmonds 10153 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems 1 Dr W Hasselkus 8 1 52 of internal control: A D Malpas 10253 agreeing internal and external audit plans: Total number of meetings 10253 1 Attended at the invitation of the Committee.
receiving reports from external auditors and from the Head of Internal 2 Appointed to Board and Committees 21 October 2005.
Audit and dealing with any significant control issues arising: 3 Retired on 14 December 2005.
5 Retired on 21 July 2005. monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence and 6 Appointed to Nomination Committee on 14 December 2005. objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process: making recommendations for the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of such services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee also reviews the arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
The Committees objective is to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of any such matters and for overseeing the appropriate follow-up action, where required.
22 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Shareholder relations This process is facilitated by the Internal Audit Department who also provide The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive control.
These processes and systems continue to be extended to encompass and Group Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional the sites and operations of the enlarged Group.
shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views.
Although the other non-executive Directors are available to major shareholders to listen All types of risk applicable to the business are regularly reviewed.
In addition, to their views, no such meetings have taken place during the year and, to that a formal risk assessment review is carried out on an annual basis to highlight extent, the Company has not complied with provision D1.1 of the code.
Twice key risks to the business and to consider action that can reasonably and costa year general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the effectively be taken to reduce them.
This review, which accords with the annual and interim results.
The Company Secretary generally deals with Code, is considered by the Board.
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM, which all Directors attend.
At The Groups Internal Audit Department is involved in the review and testing the AGM, the Chief Executive will give a statement on the Companys of the internal control system and of key risks across the Group in accordance performance during the year, together with a statement on current trading with the annual programme agreed with the Audit Committee and undertakes conditions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination from time to time ad-hoc assignments requested by senior executives or the Committees will be available to answer questions at the AGM.
The Chairman Audit Committee, the findings of which are discussed with the Audit Committee.
will advise shareholders on proxy voting details.
In addition, the Groups website containing published information and press releases can be found Compliance at www.
The Directors consider that, with the exception of the one issue specifically identified in this report, the Company has been in compliance with the Internal control provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 and to The respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors in connection the date of this report.
with the financial statements are explained on pages 28 and 29.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group has been in place throughout the year which accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
The Audit Committee has, as part of its review process, considered the Groups system of internal control throughout the year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the control system are as follows: the Group has an organisational structure with established lines of accountability as well as clearly defined levels of authority: the Group has issued manuals, including the Groups Code of Ethics, which provide details of the key policies and procedures to be followed and the overall environment in which the business is expected to operate: the Group has a system of control self-certification, that provides a documented trail of accountability against the internal control policies and procedures.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23
