Corporate governance report This report explains the Boards application of Making recommendations to the Board balance and independence the principles contained within the Combined shareholders for the appointment, The Board currently comprises the Executive Code and the interpretations that form re-appointment or removal of the external Chairman, an independent non executive best practice in governance matters.
auditors, having considered proposals Deputy Chairman, four other independent The composition of the Board changed put forward by the Audit Committee.
Non Executive Directors and six Executive significantly during the year, enabling Directors.
Details of these Executive and Oversight of the Groups risk management progress to be made in the establishment Non Executive Directors, together with and internal control strategy including of good practice principles of governance.
biographical details, are set out in the consideration of recommendations put This report highlights the improvements Directors report on pages 14 to 16. forward by the Audit Committee.
made and, where non-compliance The Board is mindful of Section A.
3.2 of the continues, provides an explanation for Review of the Groups overall corporate Combined Code, and its recommendation the non-compliance and a statement governance strategy and structure.
that independent non executives should of the Boards intentions in this regard.
Approval of the Groups corporate comprise a majority of the Board.
intends to build on the progress that has The Board been made in the past year towards full In previous years, when the Board comprised The Board has adopted a formal schedule compliance, and will pay regard to the only long serving executive directors, many of matters reserved for it.
These include: current lack of recent and relevant financial of these matters were dealt with informally.
experience amongst the Non Executives.
Responsibility for setting the strategic With the arrival of new directors it has been direction of the Group.
recognised that good governance principles The Board considers all its Non Executive require the adoption of more formal policies Directors to be independent in character Approval of the annual budget.
and procedures, and these are being put and judgement.
No Non Executive Director: Material changes to the Groups overall in place.
Of the matters set out above, the Has been employed by the Group within management and control structure.
Board is awaiting the appointment of a new the last five years.
Chief Executive prior to developing a strategic Approval of the Annual Report and plan for the Group.
Work is under way, but Has had a material business relationship Interim Report.
not complete, in developing an investment with the Group within the last three years.
Approval of all circulars, listing particulars, appraisal process including capital and in Receives remuneration other than resolutions and correspondence sent defining a treasury policy.
Day to day management of the Group is Has close family ties with any of the Approval of any material capital projects, delegated to the Executive Chairman and Groups advisers, directors or senior investments, acquisitions or disposals.
Chief Executive, the Executive Board and an employees.
operations board of other senior managers.
Approval of any significant changes Matters regularly covered at Board meetings Holds cross-directorships or has to accounting policies or practices.
include reports from each of the main significant links with other directors Approval of any material changes to capital departments of the business Store through involvement in other companies structures and issue of equity securities.
Operations, Trading, Property, Personnel, or bodies.
Information Technology, Finance and Legal.
Subsidiary company board meetings are Approval of treasury policy including foreign held frequently and attended by at least one Has served on the Board for more than currency and interest exchange risk.
executive member of the Board.
Approval of any material changes to The split of Chairmans and Chief Executives the pension scheme rules including any roles is not formally defined, reflecting the changes to funding and management long working relationship between the two arrangements.
The Board has agreed that formal role definitions will be put in place ahead of the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 17 Corporate governance report continued The engagement letters for Non Executive With the appointment of four Non Executive Directors, Brian Flanagan, Paul Manduca, Directors stipulate that their minimum time Susan Murray and Nigel Robertson the composition of the Boards committee membership commitment is based on one day per month is as follows: attendance of meetings, attendance at the Current committee membership and role AGM, Board away days and site visits plus Name Status Nomination Audit Remuneration adequate preparation time.
No Non Executive Sir Kenneth Morrison Chairman Executive Director X Directors hold other positions that mean David Jones Deputy Chairman, XXX that they will not be able to fulfill these Non Executive, commitments and to contribute to the Independent Director governance and operations of the Group.
Brian Flanagan Non Executive DirectorXXX The intention of implementing a formal Paul Manduca Non Executive DirectorXXX assessment process of the Board, its Susan Murray Non Executive DirectorXXX Chairman, members and committees as Nigel Robertson Non Executive DirectorXXX reported last year has been deferred for completion in the coming year Combined The Board met 15 times in the year.
The Directors attended the following numbers of Board Code A.
This years focus was diverted meetings and committees: to recruiting and inducting sufficient numbers Board Nomination Audit Remuneration of Non Executive Directors to provide the Number of meetings 15 1 6 3 Board with appropriate experience and Sir Kenneth Morrison 15 15 1 1 1 1 challenge, and to ensure that all the David Jones 11 15 1 1 3 6 1 3 committees of the Board comply with the Robert Stott 14 15 1 1 principles of the Combined Code.
Marie Melnyk 15 15 Martin Ackroyd 5 6 Mark Gunter 14 15 David Hutchinson 14 15 Roger Owen 14 15 Richard Pennycook 4 4 Duncan Davidson 0 3 Brian Flanagan 7 7 1 1 6 6 2 2 Paul Manduca 4 4 1 1 6 6 2 2 Susan Murray 7 7 1 1 6 6 2 2 Nigel Robertson 7 7 1 1 5 6 1 2 18 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee The core remit of the Audit Committee, which is set out in the terms of reference, is to During the year the Nominations Committee From October 2005 the members of the review and report to the Board on: had to fill a number of positions on the Board Remuneration Committee are Susan Murray both executive and non executive.
In its Chairman, Brian Flanagan, David Jones, The integrity of the Groups financial selection process for all positions, recruitment Paul Manduca and Nigel Robertson.
The statements and any announcements agencies were used to provide short-lists of Board is satisfied that the composition of relating to the Groups financial suitable candidates that met the requirements the Remuneration Committee meets the performance, including reviewing any of the Groups business and the need to requirements of the Combined Code.
significant financial judgements and critical move towards a balanced board.
accounting policies contained in them.
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Richard Pennycook was appointed as Group Committee are included in its separate report All material information presented within Finance Director, and Brian Flanagan, Paul on pages 22 to 29. the financial statements, such as the Manduca, Susan Murray and Nigel Robertson financial review and this governance as Non Executive Directors.
From October 2005 the members of the The terms and conditions of appointment of Its recommendation for the appointment, Audit Committee are Paul Manduca each Director will be available for inspection re-appointment and or removal of the Chairman, Brian Flanagan, David Jones, at the AGM, and they are also available for external auditor and approving their Susan Murray and Nigel Robertson.
inspection during normal business hours at remuneration.
Robert Stott Chief Executive, Richard the Companys registered office.
The terms of engagement of the external Pennycook Group Finance Director and From October 2005, with the recruitment auditor in the supply of non-audit services.
the external auditors also attend as required.
of additional Non Executive Directors, the The Board is satisfied that all members of The external auditors independence and Nominations Committee is now formed of the Audit Committee are independent as the effectiveness of the audit process.
the Non Executive Directors Brian Flanagan, defined by the Combined Code.
David Jones, Paul Manduca, Susan Murray The effectiveness of the Groups Internal The Combined Code C. 3.1 defines that at and Nigel Robertson and chaired by Audit and Risk Function once it has been least one of the members of the Audit Sir Kenneth Morrison.
The terms of reference established Combined Code C. 3.5.
Committee should have recent and relevant for this committee were formalised in Complaints of a financial, audit or risk financial experience.
None of the Audit October 2005 and are available on the nature and the treatment of these Committee members meet the current Groups website.
complaints that have been raised through interpretation of the required criteria.
The The activities of this committee are currently the Groups Whistleblower processes Company Secretary, at the request of the focused on searching and selecting a new once these have been established Chairman of the Audit Committee, has Chief Executive.
Combined Code C. 3.4. engaged  PwC to advise the Audit Committee on the various The full terms of reference are posted on the papers submitted for their consideration, until Groups website www.
such time as this issue is addressed within the longer term objective of Board balance.
The Board considers that the composition of the Audit Committee, combined with the level of support given by PwC, is sufficient to review adequately the financial position and governance of the Group.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 19 Corporate governance report continued The Committee reports its activities and Reviewing the financial disclosures The new Group Finance Director identified makes recommendations to the Board.
Since contained in the Groups Annual Report.
the need to strengthen the structure and October 2005 the Audit Committee has quality of the team within Finance.
A Reviewing the Groups critical accounting discharged its responsibilities as described new, deeper Finance structure has been policies including the changes required in above by: authorised and is being implemented.
This incorporates five new senior positions Accepting the Group Finance Directors Reviewing reports from the external including an internal audit and risk function.
recommendation for the formation of an auditors concerning their audit of the Experienced interim managers have initially Internal Audit and Risk function which was financial statements of the Group and filled these positions as well as giving the authorised by the Board in September its subsidiaries.
additional support required for the change 2005.
This function will be responsible for: activities within Finance.
The new top team Reviewing reports from management formalising the audit and risk framework in Finance will formalise a risk assessment on the Groups general financial risk in that supports the Audit Committee.
and management process for the Group, completing the financial statements will review and upgrade the quality of financial developing a formal audit programme and the management of that risk.
reporting, will develop formal treasury policies for the review of internal control In line with normal practice, the Audit and, in due course, will implement robust procedures and processes throughout Committee holds private meetings with accounting systems.
the external auditors, without management During the year the Finance function implementing Whistleblower processes.
The purpose of these meetings is successfully dealt with the integration of to understand their views on the control and Assisting with the recruitment for the Head accounting systems as part of the stores governance environment and managements of Internal Audit and Risk function by conversion programme, implemented a new effectiveness within it.
assessing and recommending suitable forecasting and planning process initially candidates through the selection process.
commenced following the KPMG review Internal control notified at last years AGM and leading to Implementing policy for the pre-approval As reported last year, the impact of the completion of the Groups Optimisation Plan, of all audit services, non audit-related Safeway acquisition put significant strain converted the Groups financial statements services to be provided by the external on the existing financial resource and control to IFRSs conversion announcement 17 auditor and tax services.
This made it more difficult for November 2005, implemented a new purpose of these policies and procedures the Board to forecast reliably likely trends in process to identify, mitigate and report to the is to ensure that the independence of the profitability and to obtain a full understanding Audit Committee risks that arise in financial external auditor is not impaired.
These of some underlying trading balances.
processes and implemented a new, Board procedures, which will be fully adopted The auditors were appointed to investigate approved, format for management accounts.
from 30 January 2006, permit certain these issues and to support the Board in its audit, audit-related and tax services to be obligation to provide adequate financial These activities combined with the normal performed by the external auditor, subject guidance to the markets.
The Board provided process for identifying and evaluating the to fee limits agreed with the Audit profit guidance in June 2005 relating to the significant risks in the Group means that Committee in advance.
year to 29 January 2006, and the actual the Board has reviewed the internal control results set out in these financial statements processes of the Group during the year and Recommending the engagement of PwC are consistent with that guidance.
is satisfied that the systems are designed to to assist with the preparation of the provide the Board with accurate and timely Annual Report in the required format The Directors are responsible for setting a information as to the financial performance under International Financial Reporting system of internal controls for the Group and of the Group, and to reduce, as far as Standards IFRSs, in line with the nonreviewing their effectiveness.
possible, the risk of failure to achieve audit services policy.
business objectives and of material misstatement or loss.
20 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006
