WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 54 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee and other information are delivered at times to allow Directors to Compliance with the Combined Code be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Companys Articles of Association, Directors are granted an indemnity governance set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in July 2003 liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not the Code.
The Board has also applied the principles and provisions provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have in the form set out in the revised draft Combined Code published acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged by the FRC in June 2006 the Revised Code in advance of its appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action against its commencement date.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Directors and officers.
The differing roles of Chairman and Group Chief shareholders for good governance and this report describes how the Executive are acknowledged and set out in writing.
The Chairman has Board applied the principles of good governance set out in the Code confirmed that he would not chair any other major companys Board.
and the Revised Code during the year under review.
The Chairman has addressed the developmental needs of the The Board Board as a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team and assists in the development of individual skills, knowledge As at 31 July 2006, the Board of Directors was made up of and expertise.
During the year, the Board took forward the results of 12 members comprising the Chairman, six Executive Directors previous ongoing evaluation processes to assess its performance and and five Non Executive Directors.
The Non Executive Directors are that of its committees and to identify areas in which its effectiveness, considered by the Board to be independent of management and policies and processes might be enhanced, utilising both a questionnaire free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise in relation to the performance of the Non Executive Directors and of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that each of discussions with all Board members.
the Non Executive Directors brings his own senior level of experience, gained in their own fields of mainly international operations.
Frank Roach Performance evaluations, including the skills brought to the Board and was appointed to the Board with effect from 16 December 2005. the contributions each Director made to it, were carried out for each Mr Roach was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of North America member of the Board.
Executive Directors performance has been to succeed Mr Hornsby, who became Group Chief Executive on assessed by the Chairman and Mr Banks.
Mr Banks performance 1 August 2006 following Mr Banks retirement on 31 July 2006.
For was evaluated by the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors.
the period from Mr Roachs appointment until Mr Banks retirement, The Senior Non Executive Director led the review of the Chairmans the provisions of the Code requiring a balance between executive and performance in consultation with the Executive and Non Executive non executive directors were not met, albeit that this was a temporary Directors.
The Non Executive Directors performance was reviewed position in advance of Mr Banks retirement.
At the date of this report, by both Mr Banks and the Chairman, as well as by the Board as a there are 11 members of the Board, comprising the Chairman, five whole, which considered the results of the questionnaires referred Executive Directors and five Non Executive Directors.
the Board considers that the Company once again satisfies the obligations under the Code.
Meetings between the Non Executive Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown are scheduled in the Boards annual timetable.
The Board has also on pages 42 and 43.
The Companys policy relating to the terms arranged to hold at least two Board meetings each year at divisional of appointment and the remuneration of both the Executive and locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of Non Executive Directors is detailed in the Remuneration report on the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the pages 62 to 70.
Group the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by time critical business needs.
The Board has As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors are a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, which encouraged to take up an external non executive position on a non was reviewed in July 2005, although its primary role is to provide competitor board, for which they may retain payments received in entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic respect of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, development of the Group as a whole.
Day-to-day operational all appointments are subject to the Boards approval.
Generally decisions are delegated to the executive committee referred to outside appointments for Executive Directors are limited to one on page 57.
The Board met 11 times during the year and Director company board only, although Mr Banks, by exception, served on attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on page 57. two outside boards.
The Board is satisfied that these appointments The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed did not conflict with his duties to the Company.
The Board monitors necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the of the Board is not compromised.
Succession planning is considered access that every Director has to the Company Secretary, who is to be a matter for the whole Board rather than for a committee.
charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third of good corporate governance and compliance is implemented within the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director will the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the Company seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 54 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 55 the first opportunity after their appointment.
It is Board policy that Non Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three from senior executive levels.
The expertise and experience of the years, which is then reviewed and extended for a further three-year members of the committee are summarised on pages 42 and 43.
It is also Board policy that Non Executive Directors should Board considers that each member of the committee is independent not generally serve on the Board for more than nine years and that, within the definition set out in the Code.
Mr Stein is considered by the in cases where it is proposed to exceed this period, the Director Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience, concerned will retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
as he is currently Finance Director of GKN plc.
Following their appointment, formal comprehensive and tailored induction is offered to all Non Executive Directors, supplemented by All members of the committee receive appropriate induction, which visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members is in addition to the induction which all new Directors receive and of the executive committee and other key senior executives.
All of includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
the Directors being proposed for re-election have been subject to a Audit committee members are expected to have an understanding of performance evaluation during the year ended 31 July 2006 and the the following areas: the principles of, contents of and developments Board is content that each has continued to be effective and has in, financial reporting, including the applicable accounting standards demonstrated his commitment to his respective role.
and statements of recommended practice: key aspects of the Companys approach, including corporate policies: company financing: Although the Non Executive Directors are not asked, at present, systems of internal control: and matters that require the use of to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at judgement in the presentation of accounts and key figures as well as presentations of the annual and interim results is encouraged.
The the role of internal and external auditors.
Members of the committee Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate dialogue undertake ongoing training as required.
Gareth Davis is the Companys Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
The committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The agenda The formal terms of reference for the main Board committees, is mostly cyclical such that the committee Chairman approves the approved by the Board and complying with the Code to assist in the agenda on behalf of all members of the committee: each member of discharge of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and the committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to can also be found on the Companys website at www.
Members attendance at the meetings held during Membership of the various committees is shown on page 147.
The the year is set out in the table on page 57.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
The committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Director of Financial Reporting and Nominations committee Strategic Planning, the Group Financial Controller and the Head of The nominations committee meets on an as needed basis and, at the Internal Audit together with senior representatives of the external date of this report, is comprised of Mr Whybrow Chairman, Mr Davis, auditors to attend each meeting although it reserves part of each Mr Duff, Mr Hornsby and Mr Walker.
Mr Banks stepped down as meeting for discussions without the invitees being present.
Other a member of this committee upon his retirement on 31 July 2006 senior management are invited to present such reports as are and was succeeded by Mr Hornsby.
Mr Whybrow would not chair required for the committee to discharge its duties.
the committee when it considers the appointment of a successor chairman.
The committee reviews the structure, size and composition The Chairman of the audit committee attends the Annual General of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised regard to any changes that are considered necessary, both in the on the committees activities.
The remuneration of the members of the identification and nomination of new Directors and the continuation committee is set out on page 63 and the policy with regard to the of existing Directors in office.
The committee retains external search remuneration of Non Executive Directors is set out on page 70. consultants as appropriate.
The committee also advises the Board on succession planning for executive board appointments although The committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibilities the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The committee related to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
met once during the year and Director attendance for such meeting During the year, the committee reviewed the proposed introduction of a is shown in the table on page 57, although, as reported last year, a statutory operating and financial review and its subsequent replacement working party was established, which met on a number of occasions, by a business review: the progress made towards financial reporting to consider the issues arising out of Mr Banks retirement.
under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : the interim and annual financial statements and the restatement of the 2005 Audit committee preliminary statement under IFRS: the interim and preliminary announcements made to the London and New York Stock Exchanges The audit committee comprises Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray and the Form 20-F, which is filed with the Securities and Exchange who chairs the committee.
The committees membership is reviewed Commission in the USA, having received the appropriate information by the nominations committee and by Mr Murray at regular intervals.
on the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Members of the committee are appointed by the Board following preparation of the accounts: changes proposed to those principles, recommendations by the nominations committee.
The committee is policies and practices: significant accounting issues: operation of the normally comprised of three independent Non Executive Directors.
Companys whistleblowing policy: litigation and contingent liabilities Two members constitute a quorum.
and tax matters, including contingencies against tax liabilities together with compliance with statutory tax obligations.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 55 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 56 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee The committee is also responsible for the development, The committee also reviewed the terms, areas of responsibility and implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement audit.
The committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory the associated fee proposal: any major issues which arose during requirements.
The committee recommends the appointment and the course of the audit and their resolution: key accounting and reappointment of the Companys external auditors.
The committee audit judgements: the level of errors identified during the audit: reviews the scope, results including schedules of unadjusted errors and the recommendations made to management by the auditors and representation letters and cost-effectiveness of the audit as well and managements response.
as the auditors remuneration and performance.
The committee also ensures that key partners within the external auditors are rotated from The total fees paid to  LLP in the year time to time in accordance with both UK and US rules.
In line with ended 31 July 2006 were 9.6 million 2005: 7.2 million of which this policy, there was a rotation of the engagement partner for the year 4.2 million 2005: 3.4 million related to non-audit work.
The Committee also monitors the extent of disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended 31 July 2006 non-audit work which the external auditors can perform, to ensure can be found in note 3 on page 86. that the provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not The committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal impair their objectivity or independence.
Under the policy, the external audit function and its relationship with the external auditors, including auditors cannot be engaged to perform any of the following services: internal audit plans and performance.
Throughout the year, the committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans and its Bookkeeping services related to accounting records or financial achievements against plans.
The committee considered the results of statements: the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered Financial information systems design and implementation: the adequacy of managements response to matters raised, including Appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and contributions the time taken to resolve any such matters.
in kind reports: Actuarial services: The committee also reviews, where practicable, all proposed Internal audit outsourcing services: announcements to be made by the Company to the extent that they Management functions including human resources: contain material financial information.
It also reviews disclosures made Broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the services: or certification process for the Form 20-F concerning the design and Legal and other services unrelated to the audit.
operation of internal controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud involving management or other employees The policy requires pre-confirmation by the committee of any noninvolved in the Groups financial controls.
The committee monitors audit work subject to fide minimis levels.
The external auditors provide and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, audit related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as accounting policies and practices, standards of risk management and well as formalities relating to shareholder or other circulars.
The external risk management procedures and compliance controls as well as the auditors report to the committee any material departures from Group Companys statements on internal controls before they are agreed by accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the the Board for each years annual report.
The committee has also course of their audit work.
Within the constraints of applicable US and monitored the Companys response to the requirements of the US UK rules, the external auditors undertake due diligence reviews and Sarbanes-Oxley Act as they apply to foreign private issuers with provide assistance on tax matters given their in-depth knowledge particular focus on the progress made in evaluating internal controls of the Groups business.
The provision of non-audit services within as required by Section 404 of that Act.
The Board retains overall such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-case responsibility for internal control and the identification and management basis so that the best-placed advisor is retained.
During the year of business risk.
During the year, the committee also reviewed the the committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and processes which have been embedded throughout the Group to considered whether the agreed plan had been fulfilled and the reasons implement compliance with IFRS reporting requirements.
for any variation from the plan.
The committee also considered the external auditors robustness and the degree to which the external The Companys whistleblowing policy which is an extension of the auditors were able to assess key accounting and audit judgements Groupwide Code of Ethics sets out arrangements for the Company and the context of the management letter.
Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which The committee reviews annually a formal letter provided by the external would, as appropriate, be reported to the committee.
A copy of auditors confirming their independence and objectivity within the the Code of Ethics is available on the Companys website at context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
Each year the committee critically reviews its own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
The committees terms of reference, which had been approved in October 2004, were reviewed during the year.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 56 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 57 Remuneration committee Treasury committee The committee comprises Messrs Davis, Walker and Duff who chairs The committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Treasurer the committee, all of whom are independent within the definition set and the Group Finance Director, who acts as its Chairman.
Mr Duff succeeded Mr Walker as chairman of the stepped down as a member of this committee upon his retirement on committee on 1 November 2005.
The committee met five times 31 July 2006 and was succeeded by Mr Hornsby.
The committees during the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown role is to consider treasury policy, tax matters and certain transactions in the table below.
The committee is responsible for making on behalf of the Group within a framework delegated by the Board.
recommendations on remuneration to the Board.
The Boards Remuneration report is set out on pages 62 to 70.
During the year Executive committee as part of its evaluation process the committee reviewed its terms of The Executive Directors of the Company together with Mr Barden, reference, which had been approved in July 2004.
It was agreed that who has been responsible for Wolseley UK Limited since 1 August 2003, no amendments were required.
Copies of these terms of reference and Mr White, the Group Company Secretary & Counsel, meet at least are available from the Company Secretary or on the Companys eight times each year, often on the day before formal Board meetings.
The committee addresses operational business issues and shares best practice, thereby allowing the Directors more time at Board The Chairman of the remuneration committee attends the Annual meetings to focus on strategy.
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
Meetings attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, audit, remuneration and nominations committees during the year: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board meetings committee meetings committee meetings committee meetings Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend C A Banks 10 11 1 G Davis 8 11445511 A J Duff 11 11 5 5 1 1 F N Hord 8 11 C A S Hornsby 11 11 R H Marchbank 11 11 J I K Murray 10 11 4 4 F W Roach 6 6 N M Stein 10 11 4 4 R M Walker 10 11 5 5 1 S P Webster 10 11 J W Whybrow 11 11 1 1 Chairman This table shows only those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Appointed as a Director on 16 December 2005. acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups Internal audit systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report quality of risk management and internal control and helps to promote Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, and further develop effective risk management within the businesses.
an ongoing process had been established for identifying, managing Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This process has been expertise continue to be outsourced by the Head of Internal in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the Audit to KPMG LLP as required.
A policy has been established financial statements were approved.
regarding the recruitment of staff from both KPMG LLP and  LLP.
The audit committee reviews The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of internal audit reports and considers the effectiveness of the function.
failure to achieve the Groups objectives, safeguard the Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation Internal control and best practice including that related to social, environmental and In a highly decentralised Group, where local management has ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Such systems are a well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard regularly reviewed by the Board to deal with changing circumstances.
shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Directors Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 57 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 58 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business which the risk management and internal control processes have been is given on pages 39 to 41.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an applied.
Group companies are also required to support the disclosures integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents and attestations that the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems Director are required to give under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
As part of this review, each business area and function has been required to identify and document each significant The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of investment risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, and acquisition projects, with designated levels of authority, supported monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign bi-annual major capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any and ethical matters in relation to the Groups businesses and breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised assesses these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The results have been presented to senior management including to the Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the short executive committee and to the audit committee.
These processes and long-term value of the Company.
The external auditors of the have been in place throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2006 Company and the Head of Internal Audit attend audit committee and have continued to the date of this Report.
The Board has meetings and receive its papers.
The report of the audit committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is set out on pages 55 to 56 and the audit committee members for the year under review and a summary of the principal control regularly meet the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors structures and processes in place across the Group is set out below.
without the presence of executive management.
As noted on page 52, the Company has entered into a level II Control structures American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system and has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated Commission the Commission.
As a result, the Company is responsibility for the internal control and risk management programme required to comply with applicable US regulations including the to the Group Finance Director.
The detailed review of internal control Sarbanes-Oxley Act, insofar as it applies to foreign private issuers.
and risk management has been delegated to the audit committee.
In accordance with the Commissions recommendations, the The management of each Group company is responsible for internal Company has established a disclosure committee comprising the control and risk management within its own business and for ensuring Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each Group Controller and the Group Company Secretary and Counsel.
company has appointed a risk director whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will also Groups risk management and internal control programme.
Both the provide the certificates required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act when the internal and external auditors have reviewed the overall approach Form 20-F for 2006 is filed.
There were no changes to the Companys adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
ended 31 July 2006 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Companys internal control over financial Control processes reporting.
During the year, work necessary to achieve compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual internal controls has continued.
basis and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light of these.
Control is exercised at both Group and subsidiary board level through monthly monitoring of performance by comparison to Compliance statement budgets, forecasts and cash targets and by regular visits to Group The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of companies by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
the Code and the Revised Code for the period under review and has, Group companies approve and submit risk reports to the audit throughout the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out committee on a bi-annual basis, summarising the key risks facing therein, save that, during the period from 16 December 2005 to their businesses and the controls in place to manage those risks.
31 July 2006 there was an imbalance between Executive and These reports, together with reports on internal control and departures, Non Executive Directors on the Board and following the introduction if any, from established Group procedures prepared by the internal of a new Directors bonus scheme in 2000, the pensionable salary of and external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and one Executive Director includes his bonus capped at a fixed amount.
Group companies also submit annual risk and internal control representation letters to the Group Finance Director The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required on internal control and risk management issues, with comments on to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys the control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance compliance with the nine provisions of the Code specified for its Director summarises these submissions for the audit committee and review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if the Chairman of the audit committee reports to the Board on any it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
matters which have arisen from the committees review of the way in Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 58 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 59 There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has New York Stock Exchange corporate governance been extended to include private shareholders through the Annual requirements General Meeting and meetings with shareholder representatives.
Whilst the Company is not required to comply with the measures set Contact with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, by the board of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. to strengthen brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure corporate accountability as it is a private foreign issuer, it does comply the protection of share price sensitive information that has not already in all material respects with those standards.
Those standards state been made generally available to the Companys shareholders.
that companies should have a nominating corporate governance Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders committee composed entirely of independent Directors with written to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Groups terms of reference, which develops and recommends to the board preliminary and interim results, as well as all announcements issued a set of corporate governance principles for the Company.
Details to the London and New York Stock Exchanges, are published on the of the Companys nominations committee are set out on page 55.
The Company issues regular The nominations committee does not develop corporate governance trading updates to the market and these, together with copies of principles for the Board to approve.
The Board itself approves the presentations to analysts and interviews with the Group Chief Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and authority Executive and Group Finance Director, are also posted on the limits.
A majority of the members of the nominations committee are Companys website.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is independent Non Executive Directors and all such Directors sit on circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such the Board.
The Companys practice, in accordance with the UK meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to Companies Act and the Code in relation to the appointment and be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to termination of the external auditors, is that a recommendation is the Companys Annual General Meeting at which they have the made by the audit committee to the Board, which will then make opportunity to put questions to the Board and it is standard practice a recommendation to shareholders in general meeting.
This differs to have the chairmen of the audit, nominations and remuneration from the procedure in the USA, where the external auditors are committees available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and accountable to the audit committee, which has the authority to appoint against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may be or dismiss the external auditors without reference to shareholders.
recorded on the proxy form accompanying the Notice of Meeting, are counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results will The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission be made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on and the New York Stock Exchange introduced rules in July 2005 each resolution on a show of hands.
The results are also announced requiring the Company to comply with certain provisions relating to to the London and New York Stock Exchanges and are published the audit committee.
These include a requirement related to the on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
independence of audit committee members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters.
Donations The Company is fully compliant with these requirements.
The Companys Corporate social responsibility report is set out on pages 44 to 51.
The Groups charitable donations in 2006 totalled Communications with shareholders 2,445,000 2005: 2,020,711.
The Company places considerable importance on communication with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The Group At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved in shareholders have passed a resolution, on a precautionary basis, investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day responsibility to approve donations to EU political organisations and to incur for such matters.
The views of our major shareholders are reported EU political expenditure as such terms are defined in section 347A of to the Board by the Group Finance Director and by the Chairman the Companies Act 1985 as amended not exceeding 125,000 per and discussed at its meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are annum.
The Board has repeatedly confirmed that it operates a policy available to all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and of not giving any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary can be accessed via the Companys website or via Shareview, an meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing that Internet service offered by the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB policy.
The Directors, however, propose to seek once more, authority Registrars, detailed on page 148. for the Group to make donations and incur expenditure of not more than 125,000 in total until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the Act and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The authority sought by Resolution 13 in the Notice of Meeting will last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 59 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 60 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on the local Awards under employee share schemes environment, such as private medical cover.
Employees are encouraged Options were granted under the Employee Share Purchase Plan in to become shareholders in the Company, where possible, through March 2006 to 8,151 US-based employees 2005: 9,036 and 442 participation in the Companys share schemes.
Priority is given to the Canadian-based employees 2005: 941 in respect of a maximum of training of employees and the development of their skills is of prime 817,439 ordinary shares 2005: 2,780,555 exercisable at 1236 pence importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit per share.
Options were granted under the UK Employees Savings with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the Related Share Option Scheme in April 2006 to 2,649 employees function required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry 2005: 2,246 in respect of a maximum of 621,422 ordinary shares out the function required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
2005: 582,757 exercisable at 1164 pence per share.
Options were An employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be granted under the Irish Sharesave Scheme in April 2006 to 229 offered retraining.
The Group continues to operate on a highly employees 2005: 145 in respect of a maximum of 86,100 ordinary decentralised basis.
This provides the maximum encouragement shares 2005: 70,878 exercisable at 1164 pence per share.
In for the development of entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous November 2005 options were granted under the Wolseley Share control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Local Option Plan 2003 over 4,473,070 ordinary shares 2005: 4,081,340 managements are responsible for maintaining high standards of to senior employees of the Group at an option price of 1185 pence health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee per share.
A further award of 111,820 options were granted under the involvement in decision-making.
2003 Plan in January 2006 at an option price of 1281 pence per share.
These schemes are described in more detail on pages 64 to Creditor payment policy 68.
Details of the total options outstanding at 31 July 2006 are set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
Details of the cash awards All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and under the 2001 Long Term Performance Related Incentive Scheme conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Groups policy for Mr Banks and the cash and share awards under the Wolseley plc that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and are, 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme are set out on page 64. where applicable, consistent with the UK Government-backed Better Payment Practice Code.
Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Employee policies and involvement At 31 July 2006 the Company had no trade creditors 2005: nil.
The Group places particular importance on the involvement of The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2006 its employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal was equivalent to 52 days 2005: 55 days of trade purchases.
bulletins, such as Directions and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal website, on matters affecting Shareholder services them as employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
Shareview is a service offered by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, A European Works Council has been operating since 1996 to provide which allows shareholders on-line access to a range of shareholder a forum for dialogue and consultation with employees on significant information.
Shareview provides access to details of shareholdings developments in the Groups operations, managements plans and in the Company and practical help on transferring shares or updating expectations, organisational changes within the Group and for personal details.
It also allows shareholders to choose to receive employee representatives to consult management about concerns shareholder communications electronically, rather than by post.
To over any aspect of the Groups operations.
At the date of this Report, register, shareholders simply need to log on to www.
co. uk there are 25 members comprising 14 employee representatives with their shareholder reference number, which is shown on the form nominated from among employees from each European company of proxy sent to all shareholders with this Report.
First time users will with the balance being Company appointees.
need to enter certain information and choose a Personal Identification Number before they are able to access their shareholding details.
Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys pension arrangements which include defined contribution and Shareview dealing is also available to UK-based shareholders.
The principal UK scheme has one This is a simple and convenient telephone and Internet share corporate and two individual trustees.
The Chairman of the trustees purchase and sale service offered by the Registrars.
For telephone is David Tucker and, save for an independent trustee, all of the other purchases and sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and trustees are UK-based employees or former employees of the Group.
For Internet purchases and sales, log The other main UK scheme provides benefits for employees of the on to www.
A postal dealing service is also recently acquired William Wilson Group and has five trustees.
The available from Lloyds TSB Registrars and a form, together with terms Chairman of the trustees is Ian Percy CBE and all of the other trustees and conditions, can be obtained by calling 0870 242 4244. are UK-based employees of the William Wilson Group or of the Company.
Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered membership of their employing companies pension arrangements.
CREST The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 60 Corporate governance WO40006 R&A 2006 52-71 10 10 06 8:50 pm Page 61 Auditors Directors responsibility statement  LLP are willing to continue as auditors of the The Directors are required by UK company law and International Company and Resolution 8 in the Notice of Meeting concerning their Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European reappointment and Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting concerning Union to prepare financial statements for each financial period which the determination of their remuneration are to be proposed at the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors in office at the date of this Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which  LLP are unaware The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, appropriate and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, supported as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates: they have establish that  LLP are aware of that information.
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and on the going concern basis.
Applicable UK accounting standards have also been applied.
Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to The Directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting be held on 29 November 2006, together with explanatory notes, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 149 to 152 of the Company and the Group, which enable them to ensure that and which is also available on our website at www.
the financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Auditing Standards Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the wolseley.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the On behalf of the Board financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Mark J White Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Group Company Secretary and Counsel the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
29846 Theale, Reading The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 25 September 2006 reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 61 Corporate governance
