How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Public Relations & Public Affairs Overview Hill & Knowlton Burson-Marsteller Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Cohn & Wolfe GCI Group Report by Howard Paster right Executive vice-president WPP Public Relations & Public Affairs everal years ago when the to getting the job done, and done well.
We continue to margins of WPPs Public respond to these talented individuals by offering career Relations & Public Affairs advancement, innovative training programs, digital and PR&PA businesses had barely other tools, and rewards commensurate with their success.
climbed above 10%, Martin Among the agencies, Finsbury and Robinson Lerer Sorrell called to tell me he was & Montgomery had remarkable success in 2006.
Quinn going to tell analysts our target Gillespie, Buchanan and Ogilvy Government Relations all was to achieve a 15% margin had strong years.
I responded Our largest multi-service agencies Hill & Knowlton, that I thought that was a worthy Burson-Marsteller and Ogilvy PR all made signi cant aspiration, but still a very ambitious target.
Yet it is a target progress in 2006.
Hill & Knowlton recruited as vice chairman we achieved in 2006, the third consecutive year in which Norman Y. Mineta, the only person to have served in the our headline PBIT margin in this sector has improved by cabinets of US Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.
At Burson-Marsteller, Mark Penn put together an integrated It is to the credit of thousands of professionals in offer including subsidiaries Penn, Schoen & Berland, BKSH, small and large businesses on five continents that we have Direct Impact and Marsteller.
The growth in the business realized this goal.
We are mindful that while management demonstrates the strategy was working.
Ogilvy PR showed can provide the tools for success, it is the PR&PA executives strength across all geographies and practices, and especially who devise winning strategies for clients, and execute well noteworthy success in China and elsewhere in Asia.
on those strategies who deserve the credit for our success.
Our other multi-service agencies Cohn & Wolfe Most striking is that in 2006, as in 2005, virtually every and GCI forged a highly bene cial alliance under the agency in the PR&PA group contributed to the improvement, leadership of Donna Imperato.
Cooperation between these marked by revenue growth of over 12% on a constant agencies not only rebounded to their advantage, it served currency basis and like-for-like growth of almost 6%, their clients well.
as well as achieving the margin target.
In 2006 we completed two signi cant acquisitions in In 2006 we were able, again, to recruit and to retain the the US.
Public Strategies, founded and based in Austin, Texas top talent in the industry, with much-valued help from WPPs provides distinctive leadership for clients facing complex own internal talent team.
Our agencies have done a good public affairs problems.
Dewey Square Group, a rm started job of attracting individuals who value client service, who in Boston, signi cantly expanded our grassroots and public bring solutions to client needs, who work well with colleagues policy capabilities for clients.
Both are highly regarded rms, across disciplines, and who commit whatever time is necessary and both are off to a good start in the WPP family.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs OC&C Strategy Consultants, DHL, Verizon Enterprise and the US State Department for work in Afghanistan.
Hill & Knowlton Sports marketing outperformed with wins such as the Chicago Olympic bid, Pittsburgh Pirates, Chelsea Football Club, adidas World Cup Support, HSBCs global Report by Paul Taaffe above golf franchise, PyeongChang and the 2014 Winter Olympics, Chairman and chief executive of cer and a range of other sponsorship and government body Hill & Knowlton assignments.
Sport Accord signed H&K as a partner for a second year and Daegu geared up for the 2011 IAAF World Championships bid by appointing H&K as its of cial communications consultancy.
Sports marketing and its n 2006, Hill & Knowlton saw increasing integration with all marketing remains a key its strongest revenue growth in focus at H&K and a substantial growth opportunity.
over six years with globalization H&Ks digital group accelerated its pro le with its and digitization driving client diversi ed offering based on conversation, community and demand for interdisciplinary content.
The group successfully integrated its offering across communications that deliver all aspects of H&Ks support for clients from consumer results.
Every region grew, with marketing to technology, corporate, healthcare, and crisis dramatic double-digit expansion and issues management.
While providing strategic counsel in Asia, Australia, Canada, the across all digital platforms, from blogging to IPTV, the Middle East and Latin America.
group had considerable success providing creative strategy A stellar client portfolio is indicative of the strength for an increasing number of clients who are interested in of H&K an ability to work with ease and impact at the building social networks and online communities to support intersection of business, policy and communications.
their brand or corporate reputation.
Much of the growth of H&K was driven by some of In 2006, substantial new talent joined H&K.
US our largest clients HP, Intel, Merck, Procter & Gamble Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta became and Deloitte.
H&K helped secure more than a billion vice chair of H&K worldwide.
Mineta, with extensive dollars from the Ontario government for the Ontario forest public service in the US as a mayor, a 20-year congressman, industry.
Major new clients included Amgen, the Beijing and a cabinet secretary under two US presidents, Bill Olympic Games, ING, the Executive Of ce of Dubai, Clinton and George W. Bush, was awarded the countrys Yahoo!, General Dynamics, BEA, Symantec, Ultramar, highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs In addition, AnnaMaria DeSalva joined as global head of healthcare, Joe Paluska was appointed global head of technology, Sally Costerton was named CEO of H&K London, Goldy Hyder was named head of H&K Ottawa and Bo Albertson joined H&K to lead Sweden.
H&K continued to work to differentiate itself and, as client needs changed and became more complex and Prestigious awards continued to highlight H&K as a more transnational, we were recognized as an agency of leader in communications.
H&K Canada was named a Top choice across the globe.
In 2006, we boosted our leadership 100 Employer for the fifth time by Mediacorp Canada Inc. in the communications category by launching an innovative It also won a Silver Award of Excellence for Quality from the solution called In uencer Network Analysis INA that National Quality Institute.
Hill & Knowlton Europe, Middle uses software to discover in uential commentators and then East and Africa was named best multinational company in the maps the relationships between them.
This is fast becoming 2006 International Business Awards and best international a major client planning tool.
consultancy to work for in the 2006 Holmes Report We continued to make a real difference in our clients Consultancy Survey.
Hill & Knowlton Beijing was named business by being outcomesand ROI-focused.
We rolled Consultancy of the Year in the Asia Paci c PR Awards.
out a signi cant upgrade to Compass, our proprietary Hill & Knowlton continued to support many pro account planning system that ensures each client a more bono causes during the year.
Through the charitable John rigorous analysis by understanding the drivers behind each Hill Foundation as well as its work with Ashoka, Darfur, challenge or opportunity and fide ning more clearly the New Orleans, terre des hommes, the House of St Barnabas required outcomes and relevant metrics.
and the Arab Children Health Congress 2007 plus many Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates had more, H&K and its worldwide staff continue to commit a successful year on behalf of its clients, most notably itself to socially responsible endeavors around the world.
with the passage at the end of the US 109th Congress of legislation to reform the US Postal Service, a long-sought goal of a coalition of major companies and associations representing first class and small volume mailers.
The rm grew its homeland security practice while Cohn & Wolfe strengthening its telecommunications and energy practices in 2006, and further diversi ed its highly-regarded work in the transportation sector.
Passage of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 helped ensure the solvency of American Airlines 90,000 Donna Imperato employees retirement plan.
In healthcare, Wexler retained its Chief executive of cer work on behalf of UnitedHealthcare as it purchased former client, Paci Care, and introduced a new policy effort on behalf of Wyeth.
For IMS Health, Wexler developed and initiated Cohn & Wolfe had another stellar year in 2006, with the launch of an issue advocacy campaign in preparation signi cant growth on the top and bottom lines.
Our for an extensive policy campaign in 2007. reputation for brand-building public relations in each The year was marked by signi cant movement at practice area Consumer, Healthcare, Corporate Blanc & Otus, H&Ks stand-alone technology company.
and Technology opened many doors as clients seek B&O welcomed a new CEO, Mark Hampton, bringing innovative ways to build brands through a multitude of 15 years of broad technology industry PR experience to media.
As stated in the industrys leading publication, the role.
Hampton was joined at year-end by ex-Dataquest The Holmes Report, Cohn & Wolfe specializes uniquely analyst and technology PR specialist Anna Leonard as the among the larger agencies in big brand-building ideas and new general manager of the San Francisco of ce.
is increasingly capable of delivering the kind of creative B&O continued to develop its consumer technology concepts that can be leveraged across the entire marketing practice by adding hot new clients such as Facebook, Opera mix.
In 2006, we added many new big-brand clients to Software and Burnlounge to a client roster that includes our roster, including Panasonic, Merck, Hilton Universal Electronics, the Blu-ray Disc Association and International, Barclays, Asti Spumante and a multitude of LG Electronics.
digital clients including Joost and Yahoo!
The year saw the rapid development of B&Os clean tech The agencys heritage in creativity allowed us to practice with signi cant work undertaken for clients including adapt easily to the digital world.
Cohn & Wolfe offers a The Green Grid, TechTurn, SunPower and the California wide range of digital services including social networking, Clean Energy Fund.
The growth in these two practices built on text messaging, viral videos, podcasts, tag marketing B&Os traditional strong foundation in enterprise technology and search engine strategies for clients such as Diageo, that continued with signi cant engagements with clients such as Colgate-Palmolive, American Express and Taco Bell.
Computer Associates, Verizon Business and Hyperion.
Notably, we won Best New Media Campaign for O in 2 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs 2006 as well as two prestigious awards from the Society relations industry with clients such as Merck, Eli Lilly, of New Communication Research for active listening Bayer, Forest Labs, Boehringer Ingelheim and Medtronic.
GCIs commitment to helping clients navigate the Were also building a strong green practice with digital media revolution brought the global expansion of our environmental specialists in Europe and the US.
The digital media practice and signi cant incremental growth practice focuses on sustainable business, alternative with such clients as Dell, RadioShack, P&G and Nike.
The energies and environmental strategies.
It allows clients agency also formalized a global network of creative experts, to demonstrate corporate social responsibility through referred to as the Imagination Board, who are enhancing our a green program utilizing the integrated research, media media neutral approach to creative ideation.
channels, grassroots, viral and social media campaigns In addition, the agency launched interactive that are employed in the practice.
Cohn & Wolfe has served entertainment, sports marketing and sustainability a number of clients in the environmental arena, including specialties to capitalize on its expertise and client Ford Motor Company, sister company Landor Associates experience in these areas.
GCI maintained its market leader and several global energy companies.
position in the Nordics, and the London of ce continues its In 2006, Cohn & Wolfe entered Asia with our first revitalization under new leadership.
The agency routinely of ce in Shanghai.
We have added Ford, Rolex, Kellogg participates in cross-WPP pitches, such as Berlex Schering.
and Hilton to our roster in this region.
In addition, through GCIs success in 2006 can be attributed to the our partnership with sister agency GCI, we now offer an cohesiveness of a senior management team that is effectively expanded reach in the US, Western and Eastern Europe, enforcing our strategic priorities for growth and its culture Asia and Latin America.
of high performance and collegiality.
What makes Cohn & Wolfe most successful, though, is the highly motivated team that services our clients.
Cohn & Wolfe consistently ranks as a top five Best Agency To Work For in the industrys largest independent survey on employee morale from The Holmes Report.
We were Burson-Marsteller ranked as a top five public relations rm in 2006 in the industrys largest independent client satisfaction survey, Burson-Marsteller saw continued improvement in the PRWeek Agency Excellence Survey.
pro tability and revenue growth.
Its emphasis on four core strategies digital, integrated, global and strategic are shaping its offering to great results.
For Burson-Marstellers full report, see page 38.
GCI Group Report by Jeff Hunt Chief executive of cer Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Ogilvy PR enjoyed continued global expansion of client 2006 was a strong year for GCI Group with a focus on engagements throughout 2006, as companies looked to delivering measurable impact, world-class creative and digital us to help build market share worldwide.
media expertise all of which contributed to some of the most highly-contested new business wins in the industry.
For Ogilvy PRs full report, see page 30.
Among the new clients added to our roster were Nike, Citigroup, MetLife, Genentech, Berlex Schering, Darden Restaurant Group the worlds largest restaurant group, Sony and Garmin.
This momentum was also fueled by key hires in GCIs digital media, creative and corporate practices.
GCI Healthcare remains one of the most competitive and leading-edge practices in the public How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
