Corporate governance report The Company is committed to the principles of good corporate In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
In addition, any adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
director appointed during the year will stand for election at the next This report sets out the Companys compliance with the Code.
General Meeting, ensuring that each Board member faces re-election at regular intervals.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section Chairman 1 of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 except for Ed Wallis, the Chairman, normally spends two days per week on the short period between the retirement of Struan Robertson on the business of the Group.
His other significant commitments are 7 September 2005 and the appointment on 6 October 2005 of disclosed in his biography on page 46.
The Board considers that these James Morley as Senior Independent Director, Sir Peter Williams as commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Christopher Kemball to the Company effectively.
as a member of the Audit Committee.
During this period the Company had not confirmed the appointment of a replacement Committees of the Board Senior Independent Director and the Audit and Remuneration The Boards committees meet regularly to enable them to Committees temporarily comprised two non-executive directors.
Each Committee has terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Board.
Copies are The Board available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Groups The Board of directors is the body responsible for corporate website www.
Following formal decision making the governance, for establishing policies and objectives and for the Board may, on occasion, delegate authority to a standing committee stewardship of the Groups resources.
It is the Groups policy that the consisting of any two directors to facilitate final sign off for an agreed roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with their roles course of action within strict parameters.
and responsibilities clearly divided and recorded.
Currently the Board is made up of the Chairman, two executive directors and four Audit Committee non-executive directors.
James Morley is the Senior Independent The Audit Committee comprises James Morley, Christopher Kemball Director.
Struan Robertson was Senior Independent Director until his and Sir Peter Williams, all independent non-executive directors.
The biographies of the directors as James Morley, a Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of the Committee.
at the date of this report are given on pages 46 and 47.
Struan Robertson served as a member of the Committee until his retirement on 7 September 2005.
Christopher Kemball was appointed It is the opinion of the Board that the non-executive directors as a member of the Committee on 6 October 2005.
The Board are independent of management and have no business or other considers all members to have recent and relevant financial experience.
relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
The independent auditors and Head of Internal Audit have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and, in accordance with usual practice, The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further meet privately with the Committee at each scheduled meeting.
In addition, directors meet as members of relevant committees.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal The Audit Committees terms of reference address the provisions in operational management of the Company to the Chief Executive it the Code in relation to audit committees and auditors.
The Board has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved specically for its and the Audit Committee monitor the cost effectiveness of audit decision.
This schedule includes strategy, the approval of financial and non-audit work performed by the auditors and also consider the statements and shareholder circulars, treasury policy, major capital potential impact, if any, on the corporate relationship with the auditors investments, risk management strategy and acquisitions and disposals.
before awarding any non-audit work.
For details regarding fees paid to the independent auditors, see note 4 to the financial statements.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet without the executive directors present at least annually.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to obtain independent professional advice, paid for by the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 51 Corporate governance report continued The independent auditors continue to operate procedures to Board and committee attendance safeguard against the possibility that the auditors objectivity and The following table details the attendance of directors at meetings independence could be compromised.
This includes the use of quality of the Board and of Board committees of which they were members review partners, use of a technical review board where appropriate during the year ended 31 March 2006: and annual independence procedures, including conrmations by Audit Remuneration Nomination all staff.
The auditors report to the Audit Committee on matters Director Board Committee Committee Committee including independence and non-audit fees on an annual basis.
In Lord Boyce 8 8 4 4 1 1 addition, the role of the audit partner is rotated on a periodic basis.
Keith Clarke 8 8 1 1 1 Christopher Kemball 8 8 1 2 1 1 During the year the Committees activities have included: Robert MacLeod 8 8 A formal review of the draft Annual Report, interim statement and James Morley 8 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 associated announcements focusing on key judgemental areas and Struan Robertson 3 4 1 1 2 2 accounting policies.
Ed Wallis 8 8 1 1 A review of the independent auditors strategy and their findings Sir Peter Williams 8 8 4 4 2 2 1 1 in respect of the annual and interim reports.
Regular examination of the reports in respect of work undertaken 1 Christopher Kemball was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on by the internal audit function.
The first meeting held following his appointment coincided An assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal control, with a prior engagement.
risk management process and the Companys written procedures for responding to the allegations of whistle-blowers.
Group Executive A detailed review of the internal audit plan.
The Group Executive is the Chief Executives committee and is The conclusion of the Groups transition to IFRS.
responsible for the operational management of the business.
Its Analysis of audit and non-audit fees and of the auditors members currently comprise the Group Finance Director, the Chief independence, including consideration of the forthcoming rotation Operating officer, the Managing Directors of a number of the of the audit partner.
Groups business segments, the Group Human Resources Director An appraisal of its own effectiveness and that of the independent and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
It meets regularly auditors and the internal auditors.
throughout the year, on at least ten occasions.
Those members who are not directors of the Company are invited to attend certain Board Nomination Committee meetings during the year and also meet with the non-executive The Nomination Committee comprises Ed Wallis, Lord Boyce, directors from time to time without the executive directors present.
Keith Clarke, Christopher Kemball, James Morley and Sir Peter Williams.
Struan Robertson was a member of the Committee until The respective roles of the Board and Group Executive are discussed his retirement from the Board on 7 September 2005.
The Committee further under internal control on page 53. is chaired by Ed Wallis.
The Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee makes Board performance evaluation and training appraisals of the processes in place for succession planning in respect The Board, as part of its commitment to ensure its effectiveness of both Board and senior appointments.
and evaluate its performance, completed a full evaluation of its performance and that of its directors during the year.
This evaluation All non-executive directors are advised of the time commitment consisted of a series of questionnaires completed by all Board considered necessary to enable them to full their responsibilities members and those executives with significant Board exposure prior to appointment.
followed by private discussions between the Chairman and each director.
In addition, the Audit Committee has completed a detailed Remuneration Committee formal assessment of its performance and the audit process.
In light The Remuneration report on pages 55 to 60 includes details of the of the new composition of the Remuneration Committee it is proposed Remuneration Committee and its work.
to complete a detailed formal assessment of the effectiveness of this committee later in the current financial year.
The non-executive directors have met alone to appraise the Chairmans performance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 52 The Company has a continuing professional development framework Key features of the system of the Groups internal control are as follows: to assist the Chairman, executive directors and non-executive directors in discharging their responsibilities effectively.
Non-executive directors Group organisation and culture meet regularly with members of the Group Executive and receive By its statements and actions the Board emphasises a culture of regular business updates via scheduled presentations.
This, coupled integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
with site visits and the attendance by key employees at Board dinners, ensures non-executive directors gain first hand experience of The Board focuses mainly on strategic issues, senior management developments within the Group.
External training is provided when and financial performance.
The Group Executive concentrates on appropriate.
This includes briengs from the Companys legal advisors, operational performance, operational decision making and the brokers and auditors at Board meetings and presentations from guest formulation of strategic proposals to the Board.
The Groups speakers at Board dinners.
managing directors manage their businesses with the support of senior managers.
The Board determines how the Chief Executive Internal control operates within a framework of delegated authorities and reserved The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the powers which seek to ensure that certain transactions, significant in adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after high level review.
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is the role of management to implement Control environment the agreed policies on risk and control.
The Groups operational structure has clearly documented and communicated principles of delegation of authority and segregation The system of internal financial and operational controls is designed of duties.
The Groups management systems include financial policies to meet the Groups particular needs and aims to facilitate effective and procedures, corporate and business quality assurance manuals, and efficient operations, to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure health and safety procedures and environmental management proper accounting records are maintained and ensure that the procedures.
These procedures are subject to review to ensure financial information used within the business and for publication that improvements to enhance controls can be made.
The Groups risk management process identies the key risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how those Financial reporting risks are being managed.
The Board approves a business plan and annual budgets for the Group.
The financial performance of individual business operations Such a system of internal control can only be designed to manage is reported regularly and compared to annual budgets.
The Group rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Forecasts for the Group and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against are updated and reviewed by the Board regularly.
Project and contract control There is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Procedures seek to ensure that risks are identied through the project the risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the lifecycle from bidding to completion.
Regular review procedures are year under review and remains current.
This process covers subsidiaries in place to ensure that issues are appropriately reported to the Board.
in which the Group has an interest of 50% or more.
Joint Ventures in A Commercial Risk and Audit Framework is in place which requires which the Group does not have overall control are not treated, for peer review to be carried out for all significant bids and opportunities these purposes, as part of the Group.
For these Joint Ventures, or where significant investment decisions have to be taken.
systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
For Metronet the Board has separately reviewed the Individual business controls risks faced by the Group.
Individual businesses and central corporate functions complete an annual self-certication statement.
Responsible managers personally The Audit Committee has reviewed the operation and effectiveness confirm the review of their systems of internal control and their of the Groups internal controls, which operated during the period compliance with Group policies.
The statement also requires the covered by the directors report and financial statements, up to and reporting of any significant control issues that have emerged so including the date of approval by the Board.
that areas of Group concern may be identied and addressed and experience shared.
The results of the process are reported to the Board and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 53 Corporate governance report continued Functional speciality reporting Investor relations The Board assesses the risks facing the business on an ongoing basis The Board gives communication with all shareholders a high priority.
and has identied a number of other key areas which are subject to The Annual and Interim Reports are sent to all shareholders and all regular reporting to the Board, such as human resources, health and shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, which is attended safety, environment, equity investments and treasury.
The Company is seeking to promote the use of e-communications by encouraging shareholders to sign up to receive Risk management review company circulars, such as this Annual Report, by email rather than The Board assesses risk management throughout the Group, aided by post.
This can be done by accessing our new shareholder services by the Group Risk Committee and detailed reviews of internal controls portal www.
The Group Risk Management Framework requires businesses to record formally all significant risks facing their The Groups website contains information on current activities business and detail the steps being taken to avoid or mitigate those including records of the Annual and Interim results presentations risks.
A summary of the key risks facing the Group is placed on risk to City analysts and institutional investors.
registers which are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee acting on behalf of the Board.
The Board welcomes the views of all shareholders.
The Chairman maintains contact with major shareholders, writing to them annually The Group maintains insurance policies to provide protection from to set out the Companys commitment to open, ongoing dialogue.
losses arising through claims from clients.
The adequacy of the Both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director will make Groups insurance cover is reviewed by the Board annually.
themselves available for the regular investor meetings held by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director if they are requested Internal audit to do so.
A wide range of relevant issues are discussed at investor The internal audit function undertakes a programme to address meetings including strategy, performance, management and internal control and risk management processes with particular corporate governance.
Non-executive directors are kept informed of reference to the Turnbull report.
Its conclusions are communicated the views of shareholders and the executive directors provide reports to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct to them on investor meetings.
The Companys brokers provide reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee acting on behalf briengs to the Board on shareholder opinion and compile of the Board.
independent feedback from investor meetings.
Metronet The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and Metronet is the Groups most significant Joint Venture.
Given understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
its importance to the Group, an experienced senior manager is The Chairmans statement and Operating and financial review responsible for representing the Groups interest as a non-executive on pages 4 to 45 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs director on the Board of Metronet and is responsible for monitoring and position and will be supported by a presentation to be made the progress of Metronet on behalf of the Group.
regular meetings of its board of directors.
It also has its own Audit and Remuneration Committees, at which a Group representative is Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf also present.
Keith Clarke is non-executive Chairman of the board of directors of Metronet.
Philip Davis Company Secretary 22 June 2006 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 54
