Babcock International Group PLC 29 Annual report and accounts 2006 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code During the year ended 31 March 2006 the company complied with the provisions of section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 the Combined Code save to the extent explained in this report.
This statement sets out how the principles of good governance in the Combined Code have been implemented.
Board, Directors and independence Chairman and Chief Executive functions: Senior Independent Director There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive which is set out in a statement of their respective roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
Whilst the Board believes Lord Hesketh to be independent, it recognised last year that, due to his length of service, some shareholders take the view that this is not the case and, accordingly, Lord Hesketh stood down from his membership of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee of which he was Chairman on 19 July 2005 the date of last years Annual General Meeting.
Mr Turner, who achieved nine years of service on the Board on 5 June 2005, also stood down from membership of those committees at the same time, and subsequently retired as a Director on 31 December 2005.
Mr Rennocks replaced Lord Hesketh as Senior Independent Director with effect from 19 July 2005.
To the extent that Lord Hesketh may not have been recognised by shareholders as an independent non-executive, a view not shared by the Board, there was, whilst he sat on the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees and whilst he was nominated as the Senior Independent Director, a non-compliance with the Combined Code from 1 April to 18 July 2005.
The Board It is a main principle of the Combined Code that boards should be balanced between executives and non-executives and, in particular, independent non-executives such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision taking, and also that there should be progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board considers that it complies with both principles: Refreshing of the Board Since late 2000, the executive Director team has changed completely.
There have also been significant changes in the non-executive directorships.
A long-standing independent non-executive Director retired in 2002, and Mr Turner retired at the end of 2005.
Three new independent non-executive Directors have been appointed over that period, one in 2002, one in 2003 and the other in 2005.
Board balance The Board currently has a Chairman, two full-time executive Directors and five non-executive Directors, four of whom are recognised by the Board as clearly independent assuming Lord Hesketh is not so regarded by others.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of Directors with longer, medium and shorter-term service and that their respective backgrounds and experience are such as to provide an appropriate range of skills, knowledge and experience to the Board.
The appointment of Mr Crookenden to the Board has brought welcome new perspectives and experience to its deliberations.
The Companys Articles of Association require each Director to be reappointed by the Annual General meeting if appointed by the Board during the year, and thereafter to offer himself for reappointment at least every three years.
Three Board members will be offering themselves for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Lord Hesketh, Sir Nigel Essenhigh and Mr Crookenden.
Lord Hesketh will, if reappointed, continue to offer himself for reappointment annually as required by the Combined Code in view of his length of service.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh offers himself for reappointment as he was last appointed three years ago in July 2003.
Mr Crookenden is offering himself for reappointment for the first time having been appointed by the Board during the year.
The Board sets out in the Accompanying Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 86 why it is recommending reappointment of these non-executive Directors and the Chairman confirms in those notes, as required by the Combined Code, that, having formally evaluated their performance, the Board is of the view that they continue to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and, where applicable, committee meetings and other duties.
Independent non-executives As for the non-executive Directors other than Lord Hesketh whose position is dealt with above the Board considers Mr Turner who retired on 31 December 2005, Mr Shah, Sir Nigel Essenhigh, Mr Rennocks and Mr Crookenden appointed 1 December 2005 to be independent.
Mr Turner is an executive Director of BAE Systems plc and until 4 May 2005, Lord Hesketh was a non-executive director of that company.
The Directors and in particular the other non-executive Directors do not consider this common directorship to have in any way affected the independence of Lord Hesketh or Mr Turner in their capacities as non-executive Directors of the company.
It is the companys policy to review rigorously the reappointment of non-executive Directors who have served more than six years on the Board.
Board procedures There were eight scheduled Board meetings in the financial year under review.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh was unable to attend one of those meetings due to family illness.
All other Directors in post at the time of the meetings attended them.
Apart from scheduled formal Board meetings, the Board has authorised the holding of ad hoc meetings of two or more Directors either for particular matters or to deal with matters in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board.
It is the Chairmans usual practice before each scheduled Board meeting to hold a meeting at which only he and the non-executive Directors are present so as to be able to discuss matters without executive management present.
An evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual Directors for the year under review has been undertaken.
Early in the year, an independent facilitator was retained to conduct individual confidential interviews with each of the Board members and the Company Secretary which established a baseline assessment of performance.
That report was then updated at the year-end by means of the Company Secretary conducting separate interviews with each of the Directors in turn covering matters discussed in the independent facilitators report and seeking to identify any new matters and views on the performance of individual Directors.
The views expressed in those interviews were summarised and reported to the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated during the year by the Remuneration Committee at a meeting also attended by Lord Hesketh.
These reviews were all positive.
All Directors have full and timely access to information.
Change in Chairmans significant external commitments During the year Mr Campbell resigned from the Board of iti Scotland Limited of which he was Chairman.
He also resigned his non-executive directorship of Senior plc and was appointed a non-executive director of HSS Hire Service Holdings plc and Accsys Technologies plc.
Babcock International Group PLC 30 Annual report and accounts 2006 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Board Committees the Audit and Risk Committee For the year under review, the Boards Audit and Risk Committee consisted of: J L Rennocks Committee Chairman D J Shah Sir Nigel Essenhigh The Rt.
Hon Lord Hesketh Chairman and member of the Committee 1 April 18 July 2005 M J Turner 1 April 18 July 2005 J N A Crookenden from 1 December 2005 The Chairman, Mr Rennocks, is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC, and is considered by the Board to have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience for the role.
Biographical details of the continuing members of the Committee are set out on page 24.
The Committee has formal terms of reference that are available on the companys website.
Committee meetings are attended, at the invitation of the Committee, by the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director and also by staff from the Group Finance department.
Non-executive Directors not sitting on the committee are also welcome to attend.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Group Risk Manager is invited to attend meetings for discussion of group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & Young LLP, who provide internal audit services to the company, and  LLP, the groups external auditors, usually attend the meetings.
Committee members have the opportunity to meet the auditors internal and external in the absence of executive Directors and group employees, and the Committee Chairman has during the year met  in the absence of executive management.
The Committee met formally five times in the year under review.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh was unable to attend one of those meetings due to family illness, but otherwise all Committee members in post at the relevant time attended the meetings.
At its meetings for the year ended 31 March 2006, the Committee: reviewed the preliminary and interim statements of results and the proposed announcements relating to them: reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 and the half-year ended 30 September 2005 and internal and external auditors comments in connection with them: evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls: considered the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards: reviewed internal audit reports from Ernst & Young LLP and external audit review reports from  LLP: considered the levels of audit fees and non-audit fees paid to auditors: agreed internal and external audit plans: reviewed the requirements for an Operating and Financial review and Business review including consideration of key performance indicators: reviewed the arrangements for confidential whistle-blowing: reviewed generally and, for selected matters, in depth the group risk standard and its implementation, together with group risk reports: conducted a going concern review.
Whistle blowing These arrangements are dealt with in the Corporate and Social Responsibility review on page 27.
Non-audit fees In order to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the companys external auditors, the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman must expressly authorise any engagement of those auditors on non-audit work that would entail their being paid fees in excess of 20% of the audit fee in any year.
Careful consideration is given on each occasion as to potential conflicts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to the independence of the external auditors before instructing them in connection with non-audit work.
Instructions are given only when the company considers it to be in its best interests to use the external auditors other than in connection with pure audit services.
Board Committees the Remuneration Committee Full details of the membership of the Remuneration Committee and its report for the year under review are set out in the Remuneration report on page 33.
The Committee met formally twice in the year.
Each Committee member in post at the relevant time attended both meetings, apart from Sir Nigel Essenhigh who was unable to attend one meeting due to family illness.
Babcock International Group PLC 31 Annual report and accounts 2006 Board Committees Nominations Committee For the year under review, the Nominations Committee consisted of: G A Campbell Committee Chairman D J Shah J L Rennocks Sir Nigel Essenhigh The Rt Hon Lord Hesketh Chairman and member of the Committee 1 April 18 July 2005 M J Turner 1 April 18 July 2005 J N A Crookenden from 1 December 2005 Membership of this Committee is open to all the non-executive Directors provided there is a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
The Group Chairman chairs the Committee.
Its terms of reference are available on the companys website.
The Committee had intended to review management succession plans, but in the event the full Board reviewed them, not just members of the Committee.
During the year the Committee with all members present met formally in connection with the appointment of a new non-executive Director, and its members also discussed the appointment between themselves informally.
The members of the Committee each met and interviewed Mr Crookenden before deciding to recommend his appointment to the Board as a non-executive Director.
The Committee did not, on this occasion, use an external search consultancy or open advertising to seek further candidates as Mr Crookenden was considered to be such a strong and well-suited candidate for the role.
The Committee is not, however, unwilling to use external assistance where appropriate and value-additive.
Contact with shareholders The company has regular contact with its shareholders, both institutional and individual, typically involving the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer and or the Group Finance Director.
Reports of these meetings and general feedback from investors or the market are made to the Board, and non-executive Directors are provided with copies of analysts and brokers reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with shareholders.
All of the companys Directors attended the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The companys website is also available for shareholders to keep themselves advised of developments.
It is regularly updated with press releases and analyst presentations.
Shareholders can register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
Information and training for Directors It is the companys practice to arrange for new non-executive Directors to make induction visits to the groups principal operations and to be provided with full information about them.
An induction programme for Mr Crookenden was organised to ensure that he is properly acquainted with the operations of the group and met key senior executives.
Non-executive Directors may at any time make visits to group businesses or operational sites.
Detailed presentations on the groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the group Board, and non-executive Directors receive copies of all minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee and of the monthly operating reports sent to the group head office by the business operations.
General Director training can be arranged on request and non-executive Directors are from time to time advised of seminars or briefings run by external providers that are considered to be of potential interest or relevance, for which the company is willing to pay.
Non-executive Directors who serve or who have served on boards of other public companies are also exposed to a broad range of experience of the performance of the duties of a non-executive Director.
Accountability and audit Going concern The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have, after making enquiries, a reasonable expectation that the group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal controls The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal controls, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There are written statements as to matters that have been delegated by the Board to committees or one or more Directors.
Whilst delegating certain of its day-to-day powers to executive management including powers, within prescribed limits, to authorise borrowings and give guarantees, the Board retains responsibility for major matters such as setting overall strategy, approving annual budgets, equity investments, business acquisitions and disposals, significant contracts outside the ordinary course of business and treasury policy.
The Board retains these powers with a view to ensuring that the Board and or its Committees maintains effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks throughout the period under review and up to the date of the approval of the Financial Statements for that year, and the Board and Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of this process.
This process is in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999 as updated.
The groups systems are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of this system are described below.
Babcock International Group PLC 32 Annual report and accounts 2006 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Control environment and procedures The group has an established system of internal control comprising principally of: a risk identification, evaluation and management process described below : clear delegations and limits of authority: clear authorisation and review procedures: independent internal audits: regular review by the Audit Committee of risk registers and internal and external audit reports: regular divisional operating reviews attended by group executive management: regular contract review meetings.
monthly reporting of results against budget and forecast, with variances explained: an annual presentation on tax matters to the Board: annual Board review of the insurance programme: annual review of pensions exposures and risks: monthly reports on disputes and litigation: a formal succession plan: monthly reports on health and safety matters.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives The identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives is addressed in the Business review.
Information and communication Comprehensive budgeting systems are in place to develop annual budgets and medium-term financial plans.
The budgets are subject to review by central management prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
Actual performance is compared each month with budgets, forecasts and the prior year, with written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
Monitoring For the year under review, the internal control system was monitored by means of review visits from group management supplemented by an internal audit service provided by Ernst & Young LLP acting under the overall control of the Audit and Risk Committee, which determines areas of focus for internal audit.
The Board of Directors has reviewed the system of internal controls in place and considers them to be effective.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on the companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not include consideration of these matters, and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
