Operating and Financial Review 22 22 Governance and Responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility report.
Introduction Vision Reliability We pride ourselves in meeting In 2005 we established a vision, our Guiding Our vision for Governance and Responsibility targets and expectations, and in keeping our Principles and a management framework to remains: promises.
We give confidence to our define what Governance and Responsibility shareholders through relevant and timely means for Yell.
During the past 12 months Providing our shareholders and other communications.
We provide advertisers with these have been consolidated and refined.
stakeholders with confidence that Yell is a a wide choice of reliable products and well-managed and responsible company.
services and our users with timely access to comprehensive, relevant information.
For Yell, corporate governance and corporate Excellence Responsibility responsibility are inextricably linked.
We firmly Responsibility Yell is a sustainable business, believe that good governance is essential accountable to all its stakeholders.
We within a responsible company and that a operate in a clear and transparent fashion sound approach to corporate responsibility and take responsibility for all our actions.
Our Reliability Integrity programme brings the two together, both for Integrity We aim to operate with the highest internal management purposes, and for ethical standards in all our activities.
We have external reporting to investors.
respect for each other and for all our stakeholders.
Trust, honesty and integrity are Guiding Principles key values across our business.
Supporting our Governance and Responsibility vision are our Guiding Principles In 2006 we launched our Code of Ethics of excellence, reliability, responsibility and to everyone in Yell to give guidance on the integrity.
They define how we work and ethical behaviour expected of them, and underpin our approach to all aspects of to support our Guiding Principles, particularly our business.
All people in Yell also have access to the Yell Whistleblowing Line to ensure that Excellence In Yell we have a philosophy of they can report any cases of unethical continuous improvement and constantly seek behaviour.
Our Code of Ethics is available to make the best better.
We have leading online at www.
brands and aim to provide high quality products and services in the most efficient and effective way.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 Its all about knowing what to do Environment Corporate practice Community Workplace Operating and Financial Review 23 23 Our Code of Ethics is for everyone in Yell, to give guidance on the ethical behaviour expected of them.
It also sets out our commitment to those parties who are affected by our activities or have an interest in them.
Governance and responsibility We report on Governance and Responsibility framework in a number of ways.
These include our Annual During the past 12 months we have refined Report, our annual Corporate Responsibility our governance and responsibility framework report, and online at www.
We and created a set of objectives to help us provide commentary on the activities and monitor how we are doing.
The Governance programmes that support the elements of our and Responsibility Steering Group, chaired by Governance and Responsibility framework, the Company Secretary, uses these objectives including reporting performance against at its quarterly meetings to set targets and targets.
identify potential areas of focus.
Our aim is to provide reassurance to senior management On the following pages we report specifically and the Board, as well as our shareholders, on Responsibility, Accountability and that Yell is a well-governed, responsible Openness, and Risk Management.
Framework Element Sub-elements The Yell Way Culture Roles, responsibilities and accountabilities Business Excellence Baseline compliance Laws and regulations Market regulation Risk management Internal control and audit Assurance Responsibility Environment Suppliers partners Yell people Customers Investors Community Brand integrity Reputation and brand management Intellectual property Fair selling Accountability & openness Reporting Stakeholder dialogue Investor relations Internal communication Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 24 In 2006 Yellow Book people raised more than $130,000 for United Way of America money which will be used to support pressing local community needs.
Responsibility Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes World, We supply a free vetting service for logos in Responsibility remains at the heart of our which covers the top 10% of some 2,500 the home-improvement sector, to minimise business.
A responsible approach to all our global companies, the Global 100 list of the misuse by non-members in our directories.
We stakeholders has been one of the key drivers worlds most sustainable businesses, the also give advice to users about expected of our business success.
It shapes our values, Ethibel Investment Register and Pioneer Index, standards within trade associations and the is integrated into our business plans and is a and, most recently, the FTSE4Good index.
criteria to consider when choosing a member defining feature of our company.
We report our CR activity in line with the Our Chief Executive Officer has overall framework promoted by Business In The We invested more than 3 million last year to responsibility for Corporate Responsibility CR Community, of which we are members.
We provide advertisers with information to help activity across the Group.
We adopt a dual report in more detail in our CR Report, them make the right investment.
This includes approach to CR to ensure we meet the available in printed format on request, or usage and return-on-investment information different needs of our UK and US operations.
and, most recently, Call Counter, a free the UK our programme is co-ordinated by the service that measures the number of calls CR Steering Group, headed by our Strategy Corporate practice Corporate Practice is received as a result of their Yellow Pages and Business Development Director.
This group about our business standards and our advertising.
reviews and sets strategy, policy and targets, responsibilities towards our economic identifies opportunities and areas of focus, and stakeholders our advertisers, users and Globally, our salespeople visited or called co-ordinates internal and external supplier-partners.
CR activity is then devolved to train all our sales people to sell fairly and we functional managers throughout the business.
In 2006, our UK products offered users a choice monitor compliance.
Our US Ethical Standards of around 500,000 advertisers and were used and UK Winning Fairly, Selling Fairly guidelines Whereas our UK business is mature, and more than a billion times by 84% of the are promoted internally.
policies and processes have been in place for population.
In recognition of the importance of a number of years, our US business is our role as an information source for We stimulate enterprise in the UK through our characterised by rapid growth and the need consumers, we worked with the Department of support for Trade Associations such as the to integrate the 43 companies it has acquired Trade and Industry to launch Consumer Direct, Institute of Plumbing and Heating, and the since 1999.
To help consolidate our CR an impartial telephone help-line that provides National Inspection Council for Electrical principles in the US, we have recently consumers with the tools, knowledge and Insulation Contracting.
We worked with established a CR Steering Group under the confidence to anticipate, avoid and resolve Enterprise Insight to sponsor the Yell national leadership of our General Counsel.
Consumer Direct final of the Make Your Mark Challenge, an the commitments we made in our CR Report contact details and specific Consumer Tips are exciting challenge for school students to last year, this group is currently identifying key published in 13 home improvement devise a new product in a competitive areas of focus, setting objectives and classifications in Yellow Pages.
environment, as part of the new enterprise measuring performance.
content of the national curriculum.
Since 2005 We publish contact details of more than 140 we have worked with the Berkshire branch of Our achievements as a responsible company trade associations and encourage member The Princes Trust to run workshops for have been recognised by the inclusion in some advertisers to display trade association logos members of their Young Entrepreneurs scheme.
major Socially Responsible Investment SRI in their advertisements.
Yell managers present on topics such as indices, and other lists.
These are the marketing, sales and business finance.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 25 The Presidents The Gold Awards Achievement Club for Business honours those who Excellence exceed celebrate expectations in exceptional team order to make and individual Yellow Book a achievements in highly successful Yell UK.
We share our business and CR objectives We believe that Yell should be, and is, a We achieved external recognition of our with our key suppliers through formal twice great place to work and that it offers a good success in managing and developing our yearly meetings.
We work very closely with work-life balance.
Our people retention levels people.
In the UK, we maintained our our printers, RR Donnelley, to set and manage are high in the UK at 83%, and in the US we Investors in People IiP accreditation and in environmental targets, and in 2006 we helped consider 60% retention an excellent October became one of only 24 companies our pre-press partner, Pindar Set, to achieve achievement given our programme of to be awarded IiP Champion status.
In the registration to ISO 14001, the international acquisition and integration.
In addition to upUS, Yellow Book was once again voted as standard for environmental management.
In to-date and supportive employment policies one of the best companies to sell for by the US we have worked with our paper and programmes, Yellow Book provides the Selling Power magazine.
In the UK we suppliers to increase the amount of recycled Employee Assistance Program and Yell UK conduct an annual employee opinion survey, fibre content in our Yellow Book directories.
provides the Employee Assistance Resource.
Tell Yell and 87% of our people told us they Both are free, confidential help lines available would recommend Yell as a good place to We share our business experience by to our people and their families, 24 hours a work.
chairing, or being members of, industry day, seven days a week.
associations such as the Association of Open two-way communication is invaluable Directory Publishers US and the Data Recognition of our peoples achievements is to us and is encouraged and supported Publishers Association UK.
As the winner of an important theme.
For example, in the US, throughout the business.
In addition to regular both the 1999 and the 2004 European Quality the Presidents Achievement Club honours team meetings, one-to-one meetings, internal Awards, we share our business approach and those who go above-and-beyond the surveys and question-and-answer briefings on processes with European companies, and expectations of customers and colleagues specific topics, we publish regular newsletters provide assessors to the European Foundation and help make Yellow Book a highly such as The Fortress in the US, and maintain for Quality Management.
In the UK we successful organisation.
In the Presidents Club intranets for both communication and retained our registrations to ISO 9001:2000, for Sales, winners are chosen based upon top knowledge management, such as InFocus and OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, BS 15000, IIP and sales achievement and are rewarded with the Insight in the UK and YBnet and ICE in the US.
Winners in non-sales The UK Governments Information and roles are chosen based upon peer nomination Consultation of Employees regulations, Workplace Yells Guiding Principles of and executive review and are rewarded with introduced in April 2005, set standards for excellence, reliability, responsibility and a holiday voucher.
In the UK, our Gold workplace communication and involvement, integrity are paramount to our operations.
Awards for Business Excellence celebrate and transparency in approach to information Our UK and US businesses have values that exceptional achievement by individuals and and consultation.
In light of this, we carried support both our Guiding Principles, and the teams who act as role models for their peers.
out an internal survey, which showed that specific objectives and culture of our two 98% of our people approved of existing businesses.
In 2006, we launched the Yell We sponsor our people to achieve business communication arrangements.
Code of Ethics to reinforce the importance qualifications in areas such as marketing, of ethical behaviour.
This was accompanied finance and human resources.
Sales training in In June 2005, Yell UK was again awarded the by the re-launch of our international the UK consists of three weeks of initial training International Safety Award by the British Whistleblowing Line.
followed by at least two weeks of further Safety Council, in recognition of its lowertraining every year.
Last year we invested 3.8% than-average accident rates, good safety of our UK payroll budget on training and policies and plans, and strong commitment to development and in the US, around 0.5%.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 26 Yell has sponsored The Yellow Woods Marie Curie Cancer Challenge is Yells Cares biggest annual flagship schools fundraising campaign environmental the Great Daffodil campaign, in appeal since 1999, partnership with the and has helped them Woodland Trust and raise more than local authorities 15 million.
Environment Our key consideration is our use In 2006, we launched our policy on climate Our local community activity in the UK is of paper.
In 2006, the recycled fibre content change, initially covering our UK operations co-ordinated by a network of Community of the main text paper in our Yellow Pages and supporting the UK Governments aim of Champions.
In 2006, programmes included directories was 48%, and Yellow Book has reducing CO2 emissions.
We have an Energy supporting 103 work experience placements increased its recycled fibre content from 19% Action Plan and monitor energy consumption for local schoolchildren, and 40 Yell people to more than 30%.
Our primary UK paper at all sites which are within our direct control.
facilitating workshops for interview and supplier UPM-Kymmene sources wood from 10% of our electricity usage came from business skills for A-level students.
Our Give forests managed in a sustainable way.
Our Reduce, Re-use, As You Earn scheme encouraged almost have appropriate certification, giving Recycle campaign operates throughout our 600 employees to donate 71,000 to chosen assurance that all wood is from a legal 45 offices and we maintain a Green Travel charities, with a further donation of 50,000 source, and are accredited to ISO 14001 for Plan in conjunction with local authorities and from Yell UK.
The latter encourages Park and Ride, car sharing and Yells Angels, which In our US Cedar Rapids office, a number of In 2006, thanks to an investment in publicity offers incentives to our people who cycle to people mentored disadvantaged children and recycling facilities by the Yellow Pages work.
through the Big Brothers, Big Sisters Directory Recycling Scheme, 57% of UK programme.
We also provided sponsorship households recycled their old Yellow Pages.
Community Our community programmes focus so that 400 local schoolchildren were able to Currently 96% of local authorities offer primarily on national sponsorship of key gain work experience through job shadowing.
recycling opportunities and are assisted by charity partners, and support for local schools the schemes grant programme, media support and charities.
In 2006, our Group community investment and co-ordinated approach with paper totalled 1.2 million, as measured by the re-processors.
Our sponsorship of Marie Curie, one of our London Benchmarking Group model.
This two national charity partners in the UK, includes cash donations see page 41, our We continue to raise awareness of directory helped to raise more than 15 million for their peoples time and in-kind giving, and equates recycling facilities in the US as part of our annual daffodil campaign, money which will to 0.4% of our Group pre-tax profits.
partnership with Earth 911, an environmental help to provide more than 750,000 hours of information network.
We publish their details nursing care for terminally ill people in their in all our Yellow Book directories and on own homes.
Last year almost 800 Yellow Book people Our award-winning Yellow Woods Challenge across 76 offices raised more than $130,000 is now in its fourth year and has encouraged for United Way of America, an organisation more than a million UK schoolchildren to that works with companies and local recycle more than a million old directories, communities to ensure donations from while learning about woodland.
Schools employees support the most pressing local and one of our main charity partners, The needs.
In response to the devastation wrought Woodland Trust, have also benefited from by Hurricane Katrina, Yellow Book people cash prizes and donations as part of the raised $216,000 to help relief efforts, an programme.
amount matched by a company donation.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 27 Risk management processes which affect financial reporting, formal separation from Hicks Muse in January We undertake various activities to ensure that and we have identified and tested the very 2005, and c the absence of a continuing appropriate internal controls are in place and controls within these processes.
This testing investment or commercial relationship save that risks are properly managed.
is in addition to, and runs parallel with, the for his own shareholding for two and a half internal audit plan and risk assessment years.
The Board is satisfied that Lyndon has The directors have overall responsibility for programme.
We intend to continue this work always demonstrated the requisite establishing and maintaining the systems of and further incorporate this into our independence of mind and judgement, and internal control and risk management, and for Governance and Responsibility framework.
that he is free from any relationship with the reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems executive management of Yell Group plc that are designed to manage, rather than The Board, with the advice from the Audit could materially influence the exercise of such eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Committee, has completed its annual review judgement.
business objectives, and to provide of the effectiveness of the system of internal reasonable, but not absolute, assurance controls in accordance with the guidance of On the recommendation of the Nomination against material mis-statement or loss.
the Turnbull Report, and is satisfied that it is in Committee, the Board recruited an additional accordance with that guidance.
independent non-executive director, Richard We have an ongoing process for identifying, Hooper, with effect from 13 March 2006. evaluating and managing the material risks Accountability and Openness Richard brings a wealth of experience in the we face.
This has been in place for the Statement of application of principles of the public and private sector to the Board, and reporting period, and up to the date of Combined Code Yell has applied the is widely recognised for his substantial approval of the annual report and accounts.
principles set out in the 2003 FRC Combined contribution to the communications industry.
A regular and detailed risk assessment Code the Code and has complied with the Richard has taken part in Yells training and exercise is facilitated by our Internal Audit provisions of section 1 of the Code during the induction programme for new directors.
Team, covering operational and financial risks.
period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, save This seeks to identify the nature and extent of as where detailed below.
Yells Articles of Association require one third risks facing the company, the likelihood of the of the Board to retire by rotation at the risks materialising and appropriate mitigation The Board The Board of Yell Group plc Annual General Meeting.
This then leads to a risk-based internal comprises two executive directors and seven have decided that in order to optimise audit plan.
This risk assessment and internal non-executive directors.
Six out of the seven accountability to shareholders, all directors audit plan is reviewed by senior management non-executive directors are considered shall submit themselves for re-election at this and the Audit Committee.
In addition, each independent by the Company.
The Chairman, years Annual General Meeting and shall do area of the business carries out its own risk Bob Scott was independent upon his so for each reporting period in the future.
assessments of its operations and ensures that appointment.
As Richard Hooper is a new appointment, key risks to the achievement of business shareholder consent to his election to the objectives are identified and monitored.
The executive directors are John Condron Board will also be sought at the Companys Chief Executive Officer and John Davis Annual General Meeting in July 2006, the first The Audit Committee approves the annual Chief Financial Officer.
internal audit plan prepared by the Internal Audit team, which is designed to ensure that Lord Powell of Bayswater was the Senior John Condron executive director is a full-time our internal audit activities are focused on Independent Director throughout the reporting director of companies within the Yell Group priority areas.
Senior management, the Audit period.
and has no other commitments to external Committee and the Board use the internal companies.
Consequently he does not receive audit work to obtain assurance as to the As signalled in last years Annual Report, the any other fees.
John Davis was appointed as effectiveness of Yells systems of internal control Board considered the issue of Lyndon Leas non-executive director of Informa plc, with and risk management.
independence at the November 2005 Board effect from 1 October 2005, and his fees from meeting.
At that meeting, the Board Informa are set out in the Remuneration During the year, we have undertaken a determined that Lyndon should be deemed Committee report.
Details of the executive considerable amount of work to bring our independent due to, a the exit from Yell of directors service contracts and the nonfinancial reporting controls in line with the Hicks Muse in which he was a partner, the executive directors letters of appointment can requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
private equity firm which until January 2004 also be found in the report of the We have fully documented the systems and held a significant shareholding in Yell, b his Remuneration Committee at page 46.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 28 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed Operation of the Board The Board has overall sufficient information, on a timely basis, to time commitments, since the schedule of responsibility for leading and controlling the enable the Board to run efficiently.
A secure Board and Committee meetings is subject to Company and is accountable to shareholders website has been established as an exclusive change, according to the requirements of the for financial and operational performance, channel for the directors to share information, Company.
All directors are expected to and for the open and transparent receive training material and Board papers, demonstrate their commitment to the work of communication of information relevant to such and generally enhance the administration of the Board on an ongoing basis.
During the reporting year, this website has become a valuable tool for the During the reporting period, the Board The Board recognises the division in efficient exchange of information about new conducted a formal evaluation of its overall responsibility between the Chairman who developments within the Yell Group, and effectiveness.
This reporting periods ensures the effective working of the Board keeping the directors informed generally, in evaluation focussed on the collective and the Chief Executive Officer who runs our respect of their duties.
performance of the Board and its committees, Company.
The Board has agreed a as well as the performance of individual schedule, which was reviewed at the January During the reporting year, the Board received directors, the Chairman and the Company 2006 Board meeting, identifying matters presentations by our UK and US senior Secretary.
The exercise was conducted by reserved for its decision, which include the management teams, highlighting key means of a survey completed by each approval of the financial statements, major developments in our UK and US businesses.
director, followed by a one-to-one discussion acquisitions, Group strategy, and governance between each director and the Chairman.
This schedule, which is in writing, At the January 2006 Board meeting, external The results were discussed at the January delineates the extent of the various delegated counsel was invited to provide an update on 2006 Board meeting.
authorities granted by the Board.
directors duties, and changes to the Listing Rules.
This years evaluation process confirmed that All directors have access to the services of the the Chairman and the rest of the Board have Company Secretary, Howard Rubenstein, the The Directors are entitled, at the expense of been diligent and effective in their duties removal of whom is a matter reserved for the the Company, to take independent during the reporting period.
He acts as secretary to professional advice in furtherance of their all of the Board Committees.
The Company has also arranged Brief biographies of all directors appear on appropriate Directors and Officers insurance page 32.
The Company Secretary works with the cover in respect of legal action against Chairman to ensure that all directors receive the Directors.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Bob Scott 5 1 John Condron 61 John Davis 6 Lord Powell of Bayswater5131 Charles Carey 42411 John Coghlan 5141 Joachim Eberhardt 645 Lyndon Lea 611 Richard Hooper The Chairman was required to return to New Zealand following a family bereavement.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 29 There is frequent and informal interaction times a year.
The external auditors and the to the Whistleblowing Line are reported to between the non-executive directors.
During Internal Audit Team attend all meetings.
the Audit Committee and the Board on an the reporting period, the non-executive During the reporting period, the Committee annual basis.
directors met without the executive directors met four times.
There has not been a meeting of the The Audit Committee also reviews the non-executive directors, led by the Senior The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling independence and objectivity of our external Independent Director to specifically appraise its duties regarding the reporting of financial auditors.
The nature of non-audit work which the Chairmans performance Combined and non-financial information to shareholders.
may be undertaken by our auditors has been Code reference A.
1.3, but this will be On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee defined, and financial limits on the amount of addressed in the next reporting period.
examines the effectiveness of the Groups this work have been established.
Regular internal controls and risk management by updates are prepared for the Audit The Board is scheduled to meet at least six reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity.
Committee on the nature and extent of times in any calendar year: January February, The Committee agrees the scope of the non-audit services provided by our auditors.
March April, May, July, September and internal audit plan and reviews, following the The auditors are also required to confirm their November.
During the reporting period, the risk assessment activity.
It reviews the annual independence at least annually.
and interim financial statements and the nature and scope of the external audit.
The Committee and the Board formally The table opposite shows the individual reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of attendance by directors at the Board and During the reporting period, the Committee internal control during the last financial year.
Committee meetings, during the reporting oversaw the launch of the Groups Code of period ending 31 March 2006.
Ethics, which is applicable to all Yell people.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration The Code of Ethics is available for Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt.
An Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee downloading at www.
The other members of the Committee were and Nomination Committee have been Charles Carey, and Lyndon Lea, who was established under the overall direction of the Yell Group operates an international Yell appointed to the Committee in November Board.
Each committee has written terms of Whistleblowing Line.
It was relaunched during 2005, subsequent to the review by the Board reference, which are published on the the reporting period, following a review by the of his independence.
The membership of the Company website at www.
Committee, as a result of which it is now run Remuneration Committee therefore was not The chairmanship, membership and terms by an external and independent third party.
compliant during the period 1 April 2005 to of reference of each committee are reviewed The Yell Whistleblowing Line facilitates the 3 November 2005 Combined Code reference on an annual basis.
communication on an anonymous basis, if B.
2.1, in that there were only two, instead of preferred of any matters of a legal or ethical the recommended three members of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is nature causing concern to Yell people.
chaired by John Coghlan, who is deemed investigations are jointly undertaken by the by the Board to have recent and relevant General Counsel and the Head of Human From 4 November 2005, all three members of financial experience.
The other members Resources, and the Audit Committee has the committee were non-executive directors, during the year were Lord Powell of oversight of these investigations.
Material independent of management and free from Bayswater and Joachim Eberhardt.
The investigations are brought to the immediate any business or other relationship which could Committee consists entirely of independent attention of the Audit Committee.
Statistics on materially interfere with the exercise of their non-executive directors.
It meets at least four the volume and the general nature of all calls independent judgment.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 30 The Committee, which meets at least four Nomination Committee The Nomination Relations with shareholders The Company is times a year, has responsibility for making Committee is chaired by Lyndon Lea and its committed to ongoing communications with its recommendations to the Board on the other members are Charles Carey, John shareholder base.
This is achieved through: Companys policy on the remuneration of Coghlan and John Condron.
From 1 April to Regular dialogue and presentations executive directors, for reviewing the 3 November, the membership of the throughout the year to the institutional performance of executive directors of the Committee was not compliant with the 2003 investors, such as our Investors Forum Company, and for determining, within agreed Combined Code Combined Code reference which this year, took place on terms of reference, specific remuneration A.
4.1 because it was chaired by Lyndon Lea, 9 December 2005, in the US packages for each of the directors of the a non-independent, non-executive director, The issuing of press releases and interim Company including pension rights, any during that period.
However, from reports compensation payments and the 4 November 2005, following the Boards Our Annual General Meeting gives all implementation of executive incentive review of Lyndons independence, the our shareholders the opportunity to hear schemes.
In accordance with the Committees Committee now has a majority membership of at first hand from our Board of Directors terms of reference, no director may participate independent, non-executive directors and the and to raise questions.
All proposed in discussions relating to their own terms and chairman of the Committee is deemed resolutions are put to a poll vote and conditions of service or remuneration.
The Committee, which meets at electronic proxy voting is encouraged, to least once a year, has responsibility for enfranchise all shareholders The Committee met five times during the considering the size, structure and A section dedicated to investors on the reporting period.
As well as the ongoing work composition of the Board, the retirement Companys corporate website, of the Committee, it also determined that it and or appointment of directors and ensuring www.
com was the appropriate time to re-tender for the that the Board has the right blend of skills provision of remuneration advice to the and experience.
Following the tender exercise and on reviewing the performance of the During the reporting period and following an incumbent supplier of remuneration advice extensive but informal search conducted by Deloitte and Touche LLP, the re-appointment members of the Board Combined Code of Deloitte and Touche LLP was approved.
4.6 the Committee met once to consider the appointment of Richard Hooper, In the course of the reporting year, the as an independent non-executive director.
Committee received advice from the Chief Following the meeting, Richard was nominated Executive Officer and the Company Secretary.
as having the requisite blend of skills and The Committee also received advice from experience to bring to the Company.
Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of remuneration policy, market practice and corporate governance for senior management and other employees.
Tax and risk management services were also received from Deloitte & Touche LLP by the Company during the year.
The report of the Remuneration Committee appears on pages 43-49.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 31 The following table shows the chairman and members of each Committee.
Committee Membership and Role Name Status Audit Remuneration Nomination Bob Scott Chairman, Non-Executive Director John Condron CEO, Executive Director John Davis CFO, Executive Director Charles Carey Independent Non-Executive Director John Coghlan Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman Joachim Eberhardt Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman Lyndon Lea Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 4 November 05 Chairman Lord Powell of Bayswater Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Richard Hooper Independent Non-Executive Director Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
