Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Our governance framework In this section of the Annual Report, I and my As Chairman my principal duty fellow directors report on how we discharge is to ensure that BAE Systems our duties, both individually and collectively, for the good governance of the Company.
is headed by an effective board I will begin by drawing together some of the highlights and important themes of the work that is accountable to shareholders undertaken by the Board in the last year.
In 2006 we continued to push forward in developing the work that the Board undertakes and one of our priorities for the year was senior management succession planning.
This is a fundamental task for all large company boards and one that is widely seen as being critical to the long-term success of a company.
Last year I reported to shareholders that we had reviewed our succession planning tools and work had been undertaken to understand the critical competencies that we require in our senior executives.
From this work we developed an externally facilitated programme for 50 of our most senior executives.
The results from this were presented to the Nominations Committee, together with information from other executive performance review processes.
This gave the committee the information it required to make informed decisions about the overall strength of our management resource, the depth of talent available against the key management positions and to make recommendations on individual appointments.
This was of great assistance in agreeing the appointment of two new executive directors.
During 2006 the Nominations Committee agreed that the Board would benefit from the knowledge and experience of an additional non-executive director with large UK company Dick Olver experience.
I am therefore very pleased that Chairman we were able to appoint Sir Nigel Rudd to the Board in September.
He brings a wealth of industrial management and boardroom experience which complement the skill and knowledge that our other non-executives bring to the Board.
Following his appointment, there are eight non-executive directors 44 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 excluding myself and six executive directors Board performance evaluation changes for 2006 on the Board.
2006 Achievements Looking ahead in 2007 The Board is responsible for setting goals and objectives for the Company and monitoring Conducted in-depth succession planning Continue the work started in 2006 on performance against these.
I reported last and reviewed bench strength among senior succession planning, with a focus on year on the formation of the Centre for management leading to the appointment the support and development of the next Performance Excellence CfPE, a small of two new executive directors.
generation of senior executives and also strategic team reporting to the Chief Executive the identification and enhancement of Broadened the scope of director and helping to drive performance improvement the Groups management bench strength.
development to include ethics and across the Company.
The suite of performance long-term contract accounting training.
Develop further the work the Board has metrics developed by the CfPE was used to initiated on financial performance inform the Board about performance during Continued the Boards involvement in monitoring, and looking at project and the year and we are encouraged by the strategy development and increased programme KPIs in more detail.
progress made in this area.
focus on longer-term strategic challenges and opportunities.
Build on current non-financial performance It is important that we have clear alignment monitoring, including the Corporate between executive pay and the Companys Responsibility Committees focus on performance during the year.
To help corporate reputation issues.
ensure that we achieve this alignment the Remuneration Committee and I have been Provide additional opportunities for nonworking with the Chief Executive on refining executive directors to meet to discuss issues the process we use for setting and measuring independently and with the Chief Executive.
performance against the non-financial measures used to determine the level the Companys strategy.
We have further company chairmen, myself included.
He was of annual bonus payable to the executive evolved the process during the year and interested to hear our views on corporate directors.
These non-financial measures I believe we have a sound basis for the governance matters and the Combined Code account for 25% of the maximum bonus.
development of Group strategy that is in particular.
I welcomed this opportunity and facilitated by a central team, draws on the agreed with the overall findings as reported by We have just completed our third formal knowledge of senior management across the Sir Christopher, which included the following: performance evaluation as required by the Company and is subject to robust analysis Combined Code all of which have been...
Chairs were adamant that the Code had and challenge by the Board.
As Chairman, I find not been too detrimental to their Boards understanding of our capabilities, our markets the evaluation process a very powerful tool focus on strategy.
It had increased the and the dynamics of these markets is the in helping me do my job of overseeing the amount of time required from non-executive essential bedrock on which the Board can development of the Board and looking at how directors, but it had simply raised the bar make decisions time taken in this work we can do things better.
I meet with directors of their job specification... pays dividends when important strategic on a one-to-one basis and use feedback from decisions need to be taken.
the evaluation to inform them of their own I agree wholeheartedly with this and performance and to discuss any areas for recognise the challenge in ensuring the Involvement in the development of strategy and improvement.
Similarly, each year I receive BAE Systems Board meets the demanding the prosecution of strategy through merger and feedback from our Senior Independent performance requirements set by acquisition activity is the high tempo, and for Director, Sir Peter Mason, on my performance shareholders and ourselves.
I believe many the most interesting, part of a boards as Chairman.
that the bar has been raised for all listed work.
However, it is important that a balance company boards and that we must be is maintained between this work and the One of the objectives we set ourselves diligent in ensuring that we measure up to equally important role a board has in following last years evaluation was to the governance obligations and expectations overseeing the effectiveness of controls conduct in-depth succession planning as of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
and ensuring that risks to the business are well as developing senior leadership bench understood and managed.
As reported, I think we have made a lower tempo but a more regular beat.
The great strides in this area.
We also wanted Board and its committees have an annual to broaden the scope of director training and programme of work dealing with supervisory development and in 2006 we focused on long-term contract accounting and also the matters.
I recognise that it is my job to ensure cultural and political background to certain we get the balance right between the various overseas markets.
Finally, in line with our elements that a board needs to cover.
commitment to provide ethics training to Last year Sir Christopher Hogg, in his capacity all employees, the whole board participated as Chairman of the Financial Reporting in an ethics awareness session.
Dick Olver Council the body charged with overseeing Chairman Last year we agreed that we should refine the UKs Combined Code on Corporate how the Board helps to develop and agree Governance, met with a large number of UK 21 February 2007 www.
com 45 Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Applying the Principles of the Combined Compliance with the Provisions of the The Board addressed the issue of his Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code independence prior to his appointment in The Board has structured its activities so light of provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Compliance statement as to incorporate the main and supporting Code concerning the possible existence of The Board was compliant with the principles in the UKs Combined Code, a material business relationship between provisions of the Combined Code on recognising these to be a sound statement the director and the company or between the Corporate Governance throughout 2006 company and a party with which the director is on accepted good practice for a company and up to the date of this report.
a major shareholder, senior employee, partner such as BAE Systems.
The core activities or director.
The Nominations Committee and of the Board and its committees are The Board The Board comprises a non-executive the Board have reviewed Mr Weinbergs documented and planned on an annual basis chairman, eight non-executive directors independence and continue to believe that forming the basic structure within which the and six executive directors.
In addition to he is independent for the purposes of the Board operates.
The directors are required his appointment as Chairman, Dick Olver Combined Code, notwithstanding the past to provide entrepreneurial leadership for the is also a non-executive director of Reuters relationship with Goldman Sachs.
The company relying on the business skills and Group plc.
Up until 30 September 2006 reasons for reaching this conclusion remain judgement that each director possesses.
he was also a non-executive director and as previously stated, that is: The governance structure recognises this deputy chairman of TNK-BP.
essential human element and the role of Goldman Sachs is a large organisation the Chairman in ensuring that decisions are Two non-executive directors will be retiring with many clients.
BAE Systems is made by the directors within a framework in 2007.
Ulrich Cartellieri will be retiring therefore just one of many clients it has of prudent and effective controls.
from the Board on 26 September and worldwide and the fees earned from its Sue Birley will be retiring immediately after The Board has adopted a document, relationship with the Company represented the Companys Annual General Meeting on the Board Charter, which states certain a very small part of its total revenues.
The Nominations Committee principles to guide the activities of the As a consequence, the Board believes has initiated a search for suitable candidates Board and details of the roles of the that the relationship between the Company with a view to ensuring that the composition Chairman, Chief Executive and the Senior and Goldman Sachs does not represent of the Board continues to comprise eight Independent Director.
The Charter also a material business relationship.
contains a statement of the matters Prior to his appointment to the Board reserved for the Board and the terms The Board considers all of the non-executive Mr Weinberg had had no involvement with of reference of the Boards committees.
directors, with the exception of the Chairman, BAE Systems and none of the executive The governance principles reflect the main to be independent for the purposes of the directors or the Chairman had had any and supporting principles contained in the Combined Code.
Each of these directors business dealings with him.
Combined Code and cover the following: have been identified on pages 42 to 43 Mr Weinberg ceased to be associated with of this report.
Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy.
Peter Weinberg was appointed to the Board Performance monitoring the performance In 2006 the Board was scheduled to meet in 2005 and at the time was a senior director of the Group and evaluating the Boards seven times and in addition spent one day of Goldman Sachs Inc. an investment bank performance.
Additional Board meetings that provides services to BAE Systems.
Standards and Values setting values and standards to guide the affairs of the Group.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2006 Oversight ensuring that an effective was as follows: system of internal controls is in place, that the Board receives timely and accurate Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees information on the performance of the Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group and that the Boards authority is Prof S Birley 8 8 3 3 7 7 properly delegated where necessary.
Mr P Carroll 8 8 3 3 6 6 People ensuring that appointments to the Dr U Cartellieri 8 8 5 5 Board are managed effectively and that the Mr M J Hartnall 8 8 5 5 Group has the necessary depth and quality Mr C V Geoghegan 8 8 of management resource.
Mr M Lester 8 8 1 1 A copy of the Board Charter can be found on Sir Peter Mason 8 8 5 5 6 6 the Companys website, or alternatively, can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Mr S L Mogford 8 8 Mr R L Olver 8 8 6 6 1 1 1 Rt Hon M Portillo 3 3 1 1 3 Mr R Quarta 8 8 0 1 7 7 Mr M H Ronald 8 8 1 1 Mr G W Rose 8 8 2 Sir Nigel Rudd 1 2 0 1 0 1 Mr M J Turner 8 8 1 1 Mr P Weinberg 8 8 3 3 6 7 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 retired from the Board on 4 May 2006 2 appointed to the Board on 10 September 2006 3 in attendance at four additional meetings when not a member of the Committee 46 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 are called as required and in total the Further key processes are Integrated The overall responsibility for the system Board met eight times in 2006.
For 2007 Business Planning IBP, Quarterly Business of internal control within BAE Systems eight meetings have been scheduled.
Reviews QBR and Performance Centred rests with the directors of the Company.
The IBP, approved annually Responsibility for establishing and operating The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason by the Board, results in an agreed long-term detailed control procedures lies with the as the Senior Independent Director.
managing director of each operating business.
strategy for each business group, together The Companys Articles of Association with detailed near-term budgets.
The QBRs, In line with any system of internal require that all new directors seek re-election chaired by the Chief Operating Officers, control, the policies and processes that to the Board at the following Annual General evaluate progress against the IBP and are mandated in the Operational Framework Meeting AGM.
In addition, all directors are business performance against objectives, are designed to manage rather than required to stand down and seek re-election measures and milestones.
PCL drives eliminate the risk of failure to achieve to the Board at least once every three years.
business success by linking individual goals business objectives, and can only provide with the wider goals of the organisation, The Board has set out in the Notice of reasonable, and not absolute, assurance enabling employees to understand how their Annual General Meeting enclosed with against material misstatement or loss.
own success contributes to the success this report their reasons for supporting The responsibility for internal control of the whole business.
the re-election of those directors seeking procedures with joint ventures and other re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Whilst the quality of the control processes collaborations rests, on the whole, with the is fundamental to the overall control Internal Control senior management of those operations.
The environment, the consistent application The Board has conducted a review of Company monitors its investments and exerts the effectiveness of the Groups system of these processes is equally important.
of internal controls, including financial, The consistent application of world-class Going Concern operational and compliance controls and control processes will remain one of After making due enquiries, the directors risk management systems, in accordance managements prime objectives and, have a reasonable expectation that the with the Turnbull guidance.
likewise, the monitoring of performance Group has adequate resources to continue in this area will continue to be a key BAE Systems has developed a system operational existence for the foreseeable responsibility for the Audit Committee of internal control, which has been in future.
For this reason they continue to and the Board.
place throughout 2006 and to the date of adopt the going concern basis in preparing this report, that encompasses, amongst The Company is committed to the protection the accounts.
other things, the policies, processes and of its assets, which include human, property Relations with shareholders behaviours that, taken together, seek to: and financial resources, through an effective The Company has a well developed investor risk management process, underpinned, facilitate the effective and efficient relations programme managed by the Chief where appropriate, by insurance.
operation of the Company by enabling Executive and Finance Director.
In addition, it to respond appropriately to significant The Internal Audit team independently reviews the Chairman is in regular contact with operational, financial, compliance and the risk identification procedures and control major shareholders and looks to keep other risks that it faces in carrying out processes implemented by management.
them informed of progress on corporate its business: It provides objective assurance as to the governance.
In order to assist in developing assist in ensuring that internal and operation and validity of the systems of an understanding of the views of major external reporting is accurate and timely internal control through a programme of shareholders, the Company commissions and based on the maintenance of proper cyclical reviews, making recommendations each year a survey of investors undertaken records supported by robust information for business and control improvements by external consultants.
The results of gathering processes: and as required.
the survey are presented to the Board.
assist in ensuring that the Company The Company maintains a comprehensive The Board has delegated to the Audit complies with applicable laws and Investor Relations website that provides, Committee responsibility for reviewing in regulations at all times and also internal amongst other things, information on detail the effectiveness of the Companys policies in respect of the standards investing in BAE Systems and copies of system of internal controls.
Having of behaviour and conduct mandated the presentation materials used for key undertaken such reviews, the Committee by the Board.
This can be reports to the Board on its findings so accessed via the Companys website, that the Board as a whole can take a view Reporting within the Company is structured www.
so that key issues are escalated through the on this matter.
In order to assist the Audit management team ultimately to the Board Committee and the Board in this review, the The AGM provides all shareholders with the if appropriate.
The Operational Framework Company has developed the Operational opportunity to develop their understanding provides a common framework across Assurance Statement OAS process.
This of the Company and ask questions on the the Company for operational and financial has been subject to regular review over matters put to the meeting including this controls.
The business processes detailed a number of years, which has resulted in report and accounts.
All shareholders are within the Operational Framework draw on a number of refinements being made.
entitled to vote on the resolutions put global best practice and their application is to the AGM and, to ensure that all votes The OAS requires that each part of the mandated across the organisation.
Lifecycle are counted, the Companys Articles of business completes a formal review of Management LCM is such a process and Association requires that a poll is taken on its compliance against the Operational promotes the application of best practice all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
Framework, including operational and programme execution and facilitates The results of the votes on the resolutions financial controls and risk management continuous improvement across the Group.
will be published on the Companys website.
The review is signed off by the It considers the whole life of projects managing director of every line of business from inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal, and its application and relevant functional directors.
The OAS is critical to our capability to deliver these is completed every half year and includes projects to schedule and cost.
a formal assessment of business risk.
com 47 Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report The full terms of reference of the Audit on management action taken in response Committee can be found on the Companys to work undertaken by the Auditors in 2006: website or can be obtained from the agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors Company Secretary.
for their audit work in 2006: Governance undertook an evaluation of the performance The Board has established an Audit of the Internal Audit function: Committee the terms of reference of which comply with the requirements of the undertook an evaluation of the performance Combined Code.
The Committee is chaired of the Auditors: Michael Hartnall by Michael Hartnall who is a chartered agreed a programme of work for the Audit Committee accountant and has recent experience of Companys Internal Audit function: Chairman serving as a finance director of a major UK listed company.
All members of the Audit received a report from the Internal Audit Members: Committee are independent non-executive Director on the work undertaken by Internal Michael Hartnall Chairman directors.
The Committee normally asks the Audit and management responses to Dr Ulrich Cartellieri Companys Chief Executive, Finance Director, Sir Peter Mason proposals made in the audit reports issued Internal Audit Director and Auditors to attend by the function during the year: its meetings.
However, during the year Roberto Quarta, a non-executive director, received presentations on the Companys the Committee did meet with no executive attends all meetings of the Committee.
tax affairs: directors present and has also met with However, he is not a member of the just the Audit Director present and just the reviewed proposals concerning the contents Committee as the provisions of the Auditors present.
of the 2006 report and accounts: Companys Articles of Association require that a majority of the members of all Board The Committee met five times in 2006.
The reviewed the circular sent to shareholders committees are British nationals.
This Committee has agreed an annual programme concerning the proposed disposal of the requirement would not be met if Mr Quarta of matters to be covered and has asked that Companys interest in Airbus: and Dr Cartellieri, both non-UK nationals, at least one of the scheduled meetings be received a presentation on changes to the were members.
Michael Portillo was a hosted by one of the Companys businesses law concerning the disclosure of information member of the Committee from the start to allow the Committee to meet local to auditors and agreed processes aimed at of the year until his retirement from the management and discuss audit risk and ensuring compliance with these regulations: Board on 4 May 2006. control processes.
and Activities reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
Responsibilities Since the beginning of 2006 the Audit Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee has undertaken the following The Committee recognises that one of its key Companys financial reporting, internal in order to discharge its responsibilities: responsibilities is reviewing the risks to the control policies and procedures for the Companys performance and the security of reviewed the financial statements in the identification, assessment and reporting its assets.
Twice a year the Committee 2005 and 2006 report and accounts and of risk.
reviews the output from the group process the interim report issued in September that is used to identify and evaluate risk, this Monitoring the role and effectiveness 2006.
As part of this work the Committee process also reports on the elimination or of the Internal Audit function including received a report from the Auditors on their mitigation of risk and the relative level of risk approving the appointment or removal audit of the annual reports and accounts within the Group.
This information is verified of the Head of Internal Audit.
and review of the interim report: by the Internal Audit function and made Considering and making reviewed the output from the Group-wide available to the Auditors.
recommendations to the Board on process used to identify, evaluate and The Committee has formally reviewed whether the appointment of the Auditors.
mitigate risks: there are any factors that may prejudice the Keeping the relationship with the reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys independence of the Auditors.
Part of this Auditors under review, including the internal controls and disclosures made review involved the receipt of a letter from terms of their engagement and fees, in the annual report and accounts on KPMG Audit Plc confirming that they believed this matter: they remained independent within the their independence and their expertise, meaning of the regulations on this matter and resources and qualifications.
reviewed and agreed the approach and their professional standards.
The Committee scope of the audit work to be undertaken Monitoring the integrity of the recognises that in addition to the statutory by the Auditors: Companys financial statements.
audit work undertaken by the Companys considered a report from the Auditors on Auditors there will be certain work of a nonReviewing significant financial their review of the effectiveness of controls audit nature that is best undertaken by the reporting issues and judgements.
across the Company and received a report Auditors.
It believes that, provided suitable 48 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 controls are in place, doing this work does Nominations Committee Report Work was initiated in 2005 aimed at not compromise the independence of the ensuring that the Committee had quality Auditors.
The Committee has agreed the information on which to draw conclusions following rules to control the nature and about the strength of the Companys quantity of non-audit work undertaken by management resource and to assist the Auditors: in agreeing succession plans for senior managers.
As reported on page 45, this any non-audit work to be undertaken by the work provided the Committee with goodAuditors for fees in excess of 250,000 quality information on management requires the authority of both the Group Dick Olver resources and enabled it to complete an Nominations Finance Director and the Chairman of the in-depth review of succession plans for Committee Audit Committee: the most senior positions in the Company.
Chairman no partner director of the Auditors This comprehensive review of the Groups Members: worldwide audit team is to be employed management resource was externally Dick Olver Chairman by the Company within two years of the facilitated and provided in-depth analysis Phil Carroll conclusion of a relevant audit: of over fifty senior executives and individual Sir Peter Mason competencies for key roles.
no qualified member of the worldwide audit team at manager level or below is to Combined with other performance Responsibilities be employed by the Company without the management processes, this work was Reviewing regularly the structure, approval of the Group Finance Director: and used to develop and validate the detailed size and composition of the Board succession plans that have been developed and making recommendations to no partner director of the Auditors not for the Groups senior executive positions.
the Board on any changes desirable.
associated with the audit is to be employed In addition, the succession planning work by the Company without the approval of the Identifying and nominating for the overseen by the Committee provided useful Group Finance Director and the Chairman Boards approval suitable candidates information on the quality and depth of of the Audit Committee.
to fill vacancies for non-executive the Groups management resources.
The and, with the assistance of the The Committee believes that it is not Committee will continue to review succession Chief Executive, executive directors.
appropriate to manage the level of non-audit plans on a regular basis, informed by the fees by reference to a specific ratio of audit Plan for the orderly succession output from the rigorous processes that to non-audit fees but rather it looks to ensure of new directors to the Board by are in place.
that any non-audit work is subject to robust regularly reviewing the Companys Following the conclusion of the executive procurement processes and awarded subject management resources and key management processes in September 2006, to the guidelines detailed above.
the Board made two Chief Operating Officer The Committee has adopted a programme of Recommending to the Board the appointments, with Walt Havenstein being undertaking a major review of the Companys membership and chairmanship of the appointed to lead the US businesses and Auditors every three years and in the years in Audit and Remuneration committees.
Ian King to lead the rest of the business, between undertaking a review to monitor their including the UK.
A major review was completed The full terms of reference of the Having agreed that the Board would benefit at the beginning of 2006 and a review has Nominations Committee can be found from additional large UK company experience been undertaken recently to monitor ongoing on the Companys website or can be the Committee engaged external search performance.
On the basis of this work, the obtained from the Company Secretary.
consultants to assist in identifying suitable Committee recommended to the Board that it candidates.
As a result, Sir Nigel Rudd support the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc Governance was identified as an excellent fit for the as the Companys Auditors.
The Board agreed The Board has established a Nominations agreed candidate profile and in due course with this recommendation and consequently Committee that is chaired by the Chairman was nominated by the Committee to join a resolution to this effect will be put to of the Company, Dick Olver.
Whilst he is not the Board.
shareholders at the Companys AGM.
deemed to be independent, the other two Following Sir Nigels appointment, the The Chairman of the Committee reports to the members of the Committee are independent Committee nominated him to join the Board on the proceedings of all Committee non-executive directors.
The Committee met meetings and the minutes of all meetings Remuneration Committee.
This was agreed six times in 2006. are made available to Board members.
Activities On behalf of the Audit Committee On behalf of the Nominations Committee The Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the Michael Hartnall Dick Olver requisite skills, knowledge and experience Audit Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Chairman to ensure that it is effective in discharging 21 February 2007 its responsibilities.
com 49 Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee Report is chaired by Peter Weinberg, an independent non-executive director.
All of the members of the Committee are independent nonexecutive directors.
The Companys Group Legal Director, Group HR Director, Director of Corporate Responsibility and Audit Director attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Committee met Peter Weinberg three times in 2006.
Corporate Responsibility Activities Committee The Committee undertook the following Chairman activities in 2006: Members: reviewed significant social, environmental Peter Weinberg Chairman and ethical risks as identified by the Professor Sue Birley Companys risk management processes and Phil Carroll actions being taken to mitigate those risks: Sir Nigel Rudd received reports on corporate responsibility matters including, amongst other things, Responsibilities engagement with shareholders and safety, Assist the Board in overseeing the health and environment performance: development of strategy and policy on reviewed the effectiveness of the social, environmental and ethical matters.
Companys Ethics Hotline and received a Monitor and review the Companys summary of the nature of the issues raised performance in managing social, and details of action taken.
The Company environmental, ethical and reputational established this hotline to provide risk.
Specifically, the Committee shall employees with a means by which they can review whether appropriate policies, raise concerns about any matters that they systems and metrics are in place believe may be unlawful, dishonest, harmful relating to workplace, community, to others, against Company policy, improper environment and marketplace issues.
business conduct or unacceptable behaviour.
To help ensure that employees These shall include, but shall not have faith in this arrangement it is provided necessarily be restricted to, health and by a third party who passes details of calls safety, workplace policies, responsible or e-mails received to the Audit Director.
supply chain management, Details of matters reported to the Ethics environmental impact, business ethics Hotline are monitored by a committee and compliance with law and regulation.
chaired by the head of the Companys Review the Companys Corporate Internal Audit function: Responsibility Report, prior to received reports from the Internal approval of the report by the Board.
Audit function on audits undertaken Oversee and support key stakeholder on ethical and environmental matters: engagement on social, environmental provided input on appropriate non-financial and ethical issues.
objectives for the Chief Executive and The Committee Chairman is required to other executive directors: and report to the Board on the proceedings commissioned a report on various of the Committee on a regular basis.
corporate responsibility matters and looking at best practice in these areas.
The full terms of reference of the Corporate On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee can be found on Responsibility Committee the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Peter Weinberg Corporate Responsibility Governance Committee Chairman The Board established the Corporate Responsibility Committee in 2005 and it 21 February 2007 50 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006
