CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Chief Operating Officer takes responsibility for the Companys Corporate Governance policy.
1 COMBINED CODE The Board supports the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code 2003.
Save as identified and explained below, the Board considers that it has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code.
2 THE BOARD The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and five Non-Executive Directors.
On 1 January 2006 Tom Thomson ceased to be an Executive Director and became a Non-Executive Director.
The Board notes that the Combined Code guidance recommends that at least half the Board should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has determined that James Dean, Keith Harris and Thomas Lundqvist are independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which could materially affect or interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board is satisfied with the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors which allows it to exercise objectivity in decision-making and proper control of the Companys business.
The Board considers its composition is appropriate in view of the size and requirements of the Groups business and the need to maintain a practical balance between Executives and Non-Executives.
Due to the structure of the Company it is considered that it is not appropriate to change the successful Board composition at present.
During the year, the Chairman has conferred with the Non-Executive Directors without the other Executive Directors present, and the Non-Executive Directors have met without the Executive Directors or the Chairman present.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term of office which provides for their removal in certain circumstances, including under section 303 of the Companies Act.
The Board does not automatically re-nominate Non-Executive Directors for election by shareholders.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary.
The Board has appointed Keith Harris to be the Senior Independent Director.
As recommended by the Combined Code, Keith Harris is available to shareholders who cannot appropriately approach either the Chairman or the Chief Executive about a Company matter.
As Senior Independent Director, Keith Harris is also involved in succession planning and advises the Chairman as required.
The Boards primary objective is to focus on adding value to the assets of the Group by identifying and assessing business opportunities and ensuring that potential risks are identified, monitored and controlled.
Matters reserved for Board decisions include strategic long-term objectives and capital structure of major transactions.
The implementation of Board decisions and day to day operations of the Group are delegated to Management.
In making commercial assessments the Directors review detailed plans including financial viability reports that, among other things, detail the impact of proposals in respect of return on capital, return on cash and the likely impact on the income statement, cash flows and gearing.
Strategy is determined after having taken due regard of forecast domestic and international developments.
The views of shareholders are sought in meetings held variously by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, and are reported back to the Board.
The Board is also advised of the views of shareholders as received by the Companys brokers.
Group and divisional budgets and quarterly financial forecasts including net assets and cashflow projections are formally reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis.
In addition the Executive Directors monitor cashflows on a weekly basis.
The Board met five times during the year and is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future development of the Group and the management of its resources.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, which has been updated during the year: other decisions are dealt with as day-to-day matters by management.
Directors are, where necessary, able to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
They are given appropriate training and assistance on appointment to the Board and later, if and when required.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Non-Executive Directors met formally during the year without either the Chairman or the Executive Directors present.
During the year, the Chairman has undertaken a process of review of the Board, its Committees and Directors as recommended by the Combined Code.
This process included assessing the contribution to the Group of each individual Board member.
The results of this review have been discussed with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and reported to the Board.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors.
42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for the year ended 31 December 2006 2 THE BOARD CONTINUED The attendance of Directors at meetings during the year is set out below: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 525 Sten Mortstedt 5 Per Sjberg 5 Dan Bverstam 5 Steven Board 5 Tom Thomson 5 Keith Harris 525 James Dean 425 Thomas Lundqvist 52 Bengt Mortstedt 5 In addition to Board meetings, an executive committee meets weekly to discuss management issues relating to the Group.
There is a division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman, who is responsible for the overall strategy of the Group, and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for implementing the strategy and day to day running of the Group.
He is assisted by the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
The Board has approved a written statement of the division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The NonExecutive Directors fulfil a key role in corporate accountability.
The remits and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board are set out below.
The terms of reference of the Committees can be obtained by contacting the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
The Board is assisted by the following Committees: 3 AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors Keith Harris Chairman, James Dean and Thomas Lundqvist and has met twice during the year.
The principal duties of the committee are to review the half-yearly and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and to consider any matters raised by the auditors.
The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The terms of reference of the Committee reflect current best practice, including authority to: Recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors Ensuring the objectivity and independence of the auditors including occasions when non-audit services are provided by monitoring fees and letters of engagement Ensure appropriate whistle-blowing arrangements are in place The Non-Executive directors may seek information from any employee of the Group and obtain external professional advice at the expense of the Company if considered necessary.
Due to the relatively low number of personnel employed within the Group, the nature of the business and the current control and review systems in place, the Board has decided not to establish a separate internal audit department.
4 THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, James Dean and Keith Harris.
The Board has considered the Combined Codes recommendation that the Remuneration Committee should be formed of three Non-Executive Directors however it believes that the purposes of the Committee are best achieved by the current two Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has met five times during the year.
The Committee considers the employment and performance of individual Executive Directors and determines their terms of service and remuneration.
It also has authority to grant options under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme and Company Share Option Plan.
Full details of the Committees work is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 49.
The Board of Directors has considered the appointment of a separate Nomination Committee, as recommended by the Combined Code, however due to the size and nature of the Company, this function is carried out by the members of the Remuneration Committee with the Executive Chairman.
43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for the year ended 31 December 2006 5 INTERNAL CONTROL The Board acknowledges that the Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and have established procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These procedures have operated for the entire financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period.
The Directors have recognised that such a system can only provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance that there has been no material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the process by which the system of internal control is monitored are as follows: The risks which the Group faces or is likely to face are reviewed on an ongoing basis in Board and executive meetings The control mechanisms for each identified risk are reviewed regularly Problems which arise are reviewed to determine whether they could have been avoided or their effect mitigated through improved control procedures The risk and control features of new projects are assessed as they arise The Audit Committee considers any internal control issues raised by the external auditors or management Set out on pages 8 to 35 is the description of the Groups operations and the strategy which it employs to maximise returns and minimise risks.
Quarterly and annual budgets are prepared for each area and monitored.
Parameters have been established for investment decisions to be referred to the Board for approval.
Three-yearly rolling cash flows are updated and distributed weekly and appropriate expenditure authorisation procedures have been adopted.
In addition to the review by the Directors mentioned above, during the year an external review of internal controls was conducted.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
6 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and a true and fair view, in accordance with UK GAAP, of the state of affairs and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs and, with regard to the parent company financial statements, whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements, and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that the Financial Statements comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors also have a general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the CLS Holdings plc website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
7 SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Group issues full annual accounts to each of its shareholders and at the half-year an Interim Report is sent to all shareholders.
In addition, all press releases are included on the Companys website.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management have regular meetings with institutional shareholders.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and to arrange individual meetings by appointment.
The views received at such meetings are fed back to the Board.
44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for the year ended 31 December 2006 8 PROXY VOTING The proxy forms for the Annual General Meeting and also the Extraordinary General Meeting which were held in 2006 included a vote witheld box.
Details of the proxies lodged for the AGM were made available on request and following the EGM, which was held in November 2006, these details were announced and are on the Companys website at www.
com on the Press Centre, RNS Announcements page.
9 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE With the exception of the absence of a Nominations Committee, that the Remuneration Committee consists of two independent Non-Executive Directors as commented on in further detail above, that the Chairman is not independent and in respect of the independence of some of the Non-Executive Directors as referred to in Note 2 above on page 42, the Company has complied throughout the financial year with the provisions of the Combined Code.
By order of the Board Steven F Board Company Secretary 28 March 2007 45
