46 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report The board of Grainger continue to believe that it is at such meetings is almost always achieved, although due essential to maintain the highest standards of corporate to the unpredictability of such transactions, cannot always governance.
In their view, good corporate governance is be guaranteed.
In these circumstances, the chairman speaks achieved through the way that Grainger acts, and does to the director who is unable to join the meeting in advance.
not necessarily automatically follow from ticking boxes.
In June each year, the board meets for two days to receive As in prior years, where the group departs from the presentations from senior management and to discuss Combined Code 2003 the Code, this has been an strategy at length.
This ensures that non-executives fully active decision taken by the board that the provision understand and are able to impact the strategy of the is not in the best interests of the group.
group in bringing their respective experiences to bear.
As required by the Listing Rules, a statement of how the It also gives opportunities for the non-executive directors principles of the Code are applied is given below, along to meet with senior management to discuss their specic with our formal compliance statement and explanations business areas.
where the Code has not been applied.
The main part Further to the outcome of last years board evaluation, of this report should be read in conjunction with the the board have held strategy meetings on the evening additional statements made by the board committees prior to each of the four ordinary board meetings this year.
Each meeting has been some two hours in length and has Board Conduct included presentations from the most senior management The board meets regularly, four times each year, for the where appropriate to the topic for debate.
Dinner follows consideration of strategy and to monitor and evaluate the each of the strategy meetings, allowing the directors more groups performance and prospects.
This brings together informal time together.
a wealth and depth of experience ranging from the There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the cautious to the entrepreneurial, suitable to the effective boards attention which includes: management of the group.
setting the overall strategy: The table below shows the attendance by each director approving major transactions: at the ordinary board meetings held during the year.
setting loan to value limits and associated Biographical details are given on page 45. hedging strategy: and Dec Mar Jun Sep accounting policies 05 06 06 06 Robert Dickinson The schedule is kept under review and updated as appropriate to ensure that the most important matters Stephen Dickinson affecting the business are dealt with by the main board.
Rupert Dickinson Other tasks which require main board director attention Andrew Cunningham are delegated to the boards committees or to the Robin Broadhurst executives.
Grainger therefore considers committee Robert R S Hiscox membership and chairmanship to be of the utmost importance to ensure each committee has the necessary John Barnsley skills to properly discharge its duties.
Bill Tudor John Relevant financial and non-financial information is supplied Further to the regular ordinary meetings, the board to directors in a timely manner before each board committee also meets, by teleconference where necessary, in order to meeting.
Any ad hoc request for information from a consider major transactions as they arise.
Full attendance director is dealt with as a high priority, and every director 47 is able to table agenda items at a board meeting.
The Chief executive directors have direct access to the services of the company Reports to the chairman secretary, who reports to the chairman regarding matters All executive management report to him, of corporate governance.
The appointment and removal of directly or indirectly the company secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.
Responsible for running the business Procedures also exist for directors to take independent Responsible for implementing the boards decisions professional advice as required, at the groups expense.
The chairman met during the year with the non-executives, As announced at the interim on 13 June 2006, Robert without the executive directors.
Dickinson will be retiring from the board at the Annual Investment Committee General Meeting on 28 February 2007.
He will be replaced During the year, Grainger has formed an investment as chairman by Robin Broadhurst, currently senior committee.
Its terms of reference include the objectives of independent director.
Bill Tudor John will replace Robin approving strategic and or material investments made by Broadhurst as senior independent director.
A search is the group, to monitor routine investments to ensure they under way to nd a new independent non-executive are made in line with the groups acquisition policies and director.
Following the appointment, committee business plan, and nally, to recommend major investment membership will be reviewed to ensure the most proposals to the main board.
The committee comprises appropriate composition for each committee depending Rupert Dickinson, Andrew Cunningham, Richard Exley upon the skills and experience of the directors.
and Cameron Spry see page 30.
Independence The formation of this committee has added a new depth The independence of the non-executive directors remains and formality to the strategic decision-making of the group the principal potentially contentious corporate governance in line with its increasing size and complexity.
The board does not consider that the criteria set out in section A.
3.1 of the Combined Code should be taken Roles as automatic failure of a director to be independent.
It is Grainger employs a relatively small board, which consisted their fundamental belief that directors should be assessed throughout the year of the chairman, deputy chairman, robustly as individuals, taking into account their own two executive and four non-executive directors.
Each unique experiences, reputations and competencies along non-executive is therefore required to participate in two with their mindfulness and willingness to contribute to committees of the board and Robin Broadhurst fullled decisions of the board on the basis of those.
However, the senior independent director role.
the board has carefully made progress with this issue over The roles of chairman and chief executive are very distinct, the last few years, and after the retirement of the chairman and a written division of their respective responsibilities has in February 2007, would expect that all non-executive been reviewed and approved by the board as a whole.
In directors except for Stephen Dickinson and Robert Hiscox brief, the principal differentiating factors are: will be independent on the strict A.
Chairman Reports to the board Only the CEO and company secretary report to him Responsible for running the board Guardian of the boards decision-making 48 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued The board itself is in the best position to assess independence, given their knowledge and experience of working with the individuals themselves as professionals.
The board has therefore, after due diligence and careful consideration, assessed the independence of the non-executives as follows: Director Boards determination Explanatory notes Robert Dickinson Not independent close family ties Chairman more than nine years service Stephen Dickinson Not independent close family ties Deputy Chairman more than nine years service previously managing director part-time executive responsibilities participation in all-employee share scheme Robin Broadhurst Independent although previously European chairman at Jones Lang LaSalle, who have valued some of Graingers German properties, there is no material business relationship under A.
3.1 regarded as independent by search consultants used for his appointment Robert R S Hiscox Independent although a trustee for an Estate holding a material shareholding, the board is of the opinion that this position does not interfere with or inuence his character or judgement in any way.
As chairman of Hiscox plc, and past deputy chairman of Lloyds, Mr Hiscox brings extensive skills and experience in his own right, which can only be beneficial to Graingers board the Estate has reduced its shareholding over the past two years, from 12.5m shares to 9.5m 10.1% to 7.3% John Barnsley Independent John Barnsley was not connected with any service provided to Grainger, whilst a partner at PwC, the groups auditors.
It is now almost five years since Mr Barnsley left PwC Bill Tudor John Independent no A.
3.1 criteria relevant The board therefore concluded that it included four Retirement by Rotation and Re-election independent non-executive directors throughout the year Although board members have been required to stand under review.
The independent directors therefore for re-election at intervals of no more than three years comprised one half of the board for the full year, and are for several years now, the board believes it is important greater in number than any other group of directors.
to maintain stability and continuity for longer periods.
Following the AGM in February 2007, and the expected Principally, this is due to the long term nature of the appointment of a further independent non-executive, there groups core businesses.
The process of purchasing land, will be five independent directors including the chairman.
negotiating planning and then subsequent development to sale can amount to many years diligent work, where continuity of leadership is a real asset.
The board in fact 49 considers itself fortunate to have retained the services Feedback from the process was discussed by the board of several long-standing directors for extended periods.
as a whole at a meeting specically held for the purpose.
Along with those directors retiring by rotation, the deputy There were no comments regarding individuals required chairman will stand for re-election again this year, having to be made, which would have been made directly by passed the age of 70.
As described above, whilst he is the chairman to the individual concerned.
willing and able, the board considers itself fortunate to The board is provided with technical updates relating to benefit from his continued services.
the property industry and the listed company regime, as Induction, Evaluation and Training appropriate.
In particular this year, the board has been During the year, there were no new appointments to regularly updated on the upcoming REIT regime.
the board, so no tailored induction has been undertaken.
Should the need for any further training be identied, this Upon appointment to the board, a director would expect would be provided to directors on appointment or thereafter.
to receive an introduction to the group via meetings with Relations with Shareholders and Potential Investors all senior management and also a bible, divided into The chief executive and deputy chief executive finance digestible chapters, of policies and procedures of the director meet regularly with institutional shareholders and board, committees and the operating business.
In addition to the usual meetings after results The evaluation this year, built on the experience gained announcements, ad hoc meetings are arranged to continue last year, was considered to have been very successful, dialogue throughout the year.
In particular, during the year with a number of outcomes being acted upon.
under review, the groups chief executive and deputy chief Further to last year, the written questionnaire was executive finance director have, between them, conducted extended to be two dimensional, asking all board members almost 100 meetings with shareholders, potential investors to rate how important they thought various characteristics and analysts.
Further, the executives also presented at The were, as well as how good they thought that the board Credit Suisse Annual Real Estate Conference held in New committees are at those things.
The result was a matrix York, and gave one-to-one presentations at the Morgan ensuring that the board acted upon any items considered Stanley 9th Annual European Property Conference.
They essential, but where performance could be improved.
This also participated in roadshows in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, part of the process resulted in an effective self-assessment Paris, Munich and Frankfurt, as well as in the UK.
Feedback of the board as a whole and the committees.
gathered by the groups broker and financial PR agent following such meetings and presentations is always Given the upcoming handover of the chairmanship, presented to the board as a whole and the board is briefed the chairman and the chairman-elect together formally on the views of major shareholders.
Further, non-executive interviewed each director, with an agenda of items directors are available for meetings with the same, although covering board, committee and individual director there have been no requests for such meetings in the year evaluation.
Results of the individual meetings are held only under review, or since the year end.
by the chairman and company secretary so that directors are encouraged to be open and free with their views.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is the primary route for communication with smaller private shareholders, Certain topics for discussion were particularly tabled although the groups website also includes a specic due to their being of particular importance to Grainger Investor Relations section.
All directors attend the AGM, currently or imminently.
and the chairmen of all committees are available to answer As the timing for the evaluation process is towards the end questions.
The notice of meeting and annual report and of the financial year, and the chairmans retirement had accounts are sent out at least 20 working days before already been announced, it was felt that it was not necessary the meeting.
Separate votes are held for each proposed or appropriate to evaluate the chairman this year.
resolution, including the approval of the remuneration 50 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued committee report, and a proxy count is given in each case The board also discusses in detail the projected financial after the voting on a show of hands.
At the AGM in March impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, 2006, Grainger included a vote withheld category for the including their nancing.
All such proposed substantial second year, in line with best practice.
Shareholders were investments are considered by all directors.
Where also able to lodge their votes through the CREST system.
meetings are required between board meetings and a full complement of directors cannot be achieved, an executive Internal Control committee of directors considers the necessary formalities.
The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing The board is also responsible for the discussion and approval and managing its significant risks, which has been in place of the groups treasury strategy, including mitigation for the full year under review.
The process is designed against changes in interest rates.
to enable the board to be confident that such risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It should be Going Concern noted, however, that no system can eliminate the risk of After making enquiries, including the review of future failure to achieve business objectives entirely and can only anticipated cash ows and banking covenants, the directors provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against have a reasonable expectation that the group and company material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee is have adequate resources to continue in existence for the delegated the task of reviewing all identied risks, with the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt absolute key risks retained for full board review.
Risks and the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
controls are reviewed to ensure effective management of Compliance Statement appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance Independence of non-executive directors is explained in issues.
The audit committee also reviews the half year and detail above.
In the boards view it is their assessment full year financial statements and holds discussions with of independence which determines compliance with the the groups auditors.
In addition, the group has an internal Code and therefore no non-compliance on grounds of audit function which performs relevant reviews as part of independence has been recorded.
a programme approved by the audit committee.
During Except as noted below, the board considers that it the year, Grainger also employed KPMG to perform has complied with the Code throughout the year ended internal audit work on the German operations, ensuring 30 September 2006: that the work was done by suitably qualied individuals.
1.6 As explained in detail in the Directors Remuneration The committee considers any issues or risks arising from Report, Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham internal audit in order that appropriate actions can be currently hold service contracts with notice periods undertaken for their satisfactory resolution.
The internal in excess of one year.
The notice periods are being audit manager has a direct reporting line to the chairman reduced from two years to one year on a straightof the audit committee.
line basis over a period of five years from 1 October An annual budget is produced, together with longer-term 2002.
At the date of this report the notice period projections, which are presented to the board for approval.
outstanding stood at approximately 14 months.
At each meeting the board discusses progress against the Report of the Nomination Committee budget and monitors any variances.
Where applicable, The nomination committee consists of the chairman revisions are made to expected outturn against which and two non-executive directors.
It met once formally further progress can be monitored.
during the year, and informally on other occasions.
The attendance of individual directors, who all served throughout the year under review, are shown overleaf: 51 Sep Nov Feb May Sep 06 05 06 06 06 Robert Dickinson John Barnsley Chairman Chairman Robert R S Hiscox Robin Broadhurst Member Member Robin Broadhurst Bill Tudor John Member Member The terms of reference of the nomination committee are The audit committee adheres to particularly strict and available on the groups website and principally relate to detailed terms of reference, which are available for lling vacancies on the board, whether arising through inspection on the groups website.
In addition to the work resignation, retirement or desired expansion and also described within the Internal Control section of the main consideration of succession planning.
report above, the audit committee is also responsible for reviewing the independence of the external auditor, which During the year, the committee started to consider the includes the approval of any non-audit service fees above a appointment of an independent non-executive director, to relatively nominal level.
The audit committee is responsible follow the resignation of the chairman.
The nomination for the appointment of the external auditor and for committee first discussed with the board the desirable agreeing the audit fee.
background and experience of a new non-executive, and then approached an agency with this information.
The deputy chief executive finance director and external The process is ongoing.
audit partner as well as other senior management are invited to attend meetings of the committee.
Once each The nomination committee is also responsible for reviewing year the audit committee meet with management without the desirability of the continuation of service of directors the auditors present and also with the auditors without required to retire by rotation.
In this regard, each of the management present.
directors required to retire by rotation this year has continued to demonstrate full, capable and committed participation in setting and monitoring strategy for the group.
Details of those directors standing for re-election By order of the board at the February 2007 Annual General Meeting are given in the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report, with biographies on page 45.
Report of the Audit Committee The audit committee meets four times each year, ahead of each board meeting, reporting any relevant matters to the board where t. Attendance of the individual directors, Marie Glanville ACA ACIS who all served on the committee throughout the year, Company Secretary is shown below.
In the opinion of the directors, the audit 22 December 2006 committee comprised three independent non-executive directors throughout the period, and Mr Barnsley has the particular recent, relevant financial experience required by the Code.
