6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 48 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee The Company has procedures whereby staff may, in confidence, The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and raise concerns about matters of possible impropriety, fraud, chaired by Mr Edens.
Its other members are Mr Carey, Mr financial irregularity or other malpractice.
The Chief Executive officer, the Financial reporting Chief Finance officer and others attend by invitation.
The The Audit Committee has reviewed the significant financial Committee aims to meet at least once a year and during the reporting issues and judgments made in connection with the period met once with full attendance.
preparation of the Groups financial statements including The main role and responsibilities of the Remuneration significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any Committee are set out in written terms of reference, which significant estimates and judgments.
The Audit Committee has are reviewed annually.
During the year, the Remuneration also reviewed the clarity and completeness of disclosures in Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with the financial statements and considered whether the disclosures the terms of reference and its activities are described in the made were set properly in context.
The review of the annual Directors remuneration report.
report included a review of the business and financial review and corporate governance relating to audit and risk management.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no Director participated in discussions relating to his terms and Internal audit conditions of service or remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviewed the requirement for an internal audit function during the year on behalf of the Board and Audit Committee considered there was no necessity for an internal audit function, Membership as the Group has a small management team operating from one The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board.
It comprises location and the Board and senior management team exercise of Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by close control over the Groups activities.
This enables the close Mr Parkinson.
Its other members are Mr Carey and Mr Harris.
involvement of the Executive Director and the Chief Financial The members of the Committee have no links with the officer in the day-to-day operational matters of the Group.
Companys external auditors and are independent of the The Audit Committee expects to review this decision annually.
The Board considers that collectively the Audit Committee has significant recent and relevant financial Auditors experience as detailed on page 41 and the ability to discharge The Committees terms of reference require the Audit Committee its duties properly, gained from managing businesses of a similar to carry out an annual review of the independence of the or greater size, and through extensive service on the Boards and Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
Senior members of the audit Committees of other listed companies.
audit team are rotated on a regular basis.
The Company has a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, and where The implementation of the policy is continually monitored by appropriate meetings coincide with key dates in the Companys the Audit Committee.
The Committee has considered the financial reporting and audit cycle.
The Chief Financial officer, provision of non-audit services performed by the auditors the Chief Executive officer and others attend by invitation.
and was satisfied they were and continue to be objective During the period, the Audit Committee met six times.
and independent of the Group.
Responsibilities Investment Committee The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set The Company has clearly dened guidelines for capital out in written terms of reference, which have been reviewed expenditure.
An Investment Committee reporting to the annually as part of the Committees evaluation process.
Copies Board and chaired by Mr Edens is responsible for reviewing of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
and approving all significant individual property transactions The main responsibilities are: proposed by the Group.
The Committee includes, in addition Considering and making recommendations regarding the to the Chairman, Mr Fascitelli, Mr Harris, Mr Hopkins and appointment and removal of the external auditors Mr Parkinson.
The Committee also monitors: the disposals of surplus property: rent reviews: lease renewals: development Recommending the audit fee to the Board and pre-approving opportunities: dilapidations settlements: and freehold fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external and leasehold acquisitions.
auditors The Committee evaluates, considers and makes recommendations Reviewing the nature and scope of the external audit and to the Board in relation to proposals for new business in terms monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity of the type: t with the Companys strategic plan: its profitability Monitoring the integrity in relation to the interim and and the resources required.
In addition, the Committee considers annual financial statements and financial announcements and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to: customer and significant reporting judgments therein before requests: invitations to tender bid: market research: networking submission to the Board information: risk evaluation and major expenditure on life cycle and other projects in relation to the Groups properties.
Ensuring effective systems of internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management are maintained Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgment of management in relation to the quarterly, interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board Reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers 48 Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance 6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 49 Table of attendance for the year to 31 December 2006: Relations with shareholders The Chairman, Chief Executive officer and designated Full BoardRemuneration Audit NominationInvestment members of senior management are the Companys principal Director meeting Committee Committee Committee Committee spokespersons with investors, fund managers, the press and Roger Carey 8 4 6 1 n a other interested parties.
The Board is fully informed on the Wesley R Edens 7 3 n a 1 3 information provided to shareholders and their reactions.
Michael Fascitelli 14 2 n a n a 10 As part of the Companys effort to increase effective John Harris 13 n a 4 n a 11 communication with both investors and potential investors, Jameson Hopkins 13 n a n a n a 11 Mapeley executed a continual programme of meetings and Charles Parkinson 14 3 6 1 11 presentations during 2006.
Management met with institutional shareholders as and when requested and as part of formal road Internal control show meetings in connection with its two equity fundraisings.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and The Company works continually to improve the understanding managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Executive of its objectives, strategy and performance and in the year Director and senior operational management are responsible for 173 presentations were made by the Chief Executive officer, identifying key risks and assessing their probable impact through Chief Financial officer and Head of Investor Relations.
These formal processes at both Group and subsidiary levels.
presentations provide an opportunity to explain the Companys business and financial performance and to answer questions During 2006, the Board discharged its responsibility for internal from investors.
All such meetings are conducted within the control through the following key procedures: guidance provided by the UKLA Listing and Disclosure Rules The maintenance of an organisational structure with clearly on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
The Board dened levels of authority and divisions of responsibilities is regularly updated as to the views of investors, analysts and the media and reports are made available to the Board on A comprehensive system of budgeting, planning and feedback received on an unattributable basis from investors.
reporting, which is approved by the Board and against which performance is regularly monitored Annual General Meeting AGM At the AGM, investors will be given the opportunity to The formulation of policies and of approval procedures in a question the Board and to meet with them afterwards.
They number of key areas such as treasury operations and capital are encouraged to participate in the Meeting.
At the AGM the expenditure.
These are reviewed from time to time by the Company complies with the provisions of the Code relating Board to confirm their adequacy to the disclosure of proxy votes, the attendance of Committee The provision of a code of conduct for employees and the chairmen and the separation of resolutions.
The Company monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual arranges for the annual report and notice of the meeting performance appraisal process to be posted to shareholders in good time to allow for full consideration prior to the AGM.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its Going concern operations.
The Group has what it believes to be an appropriate After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue monitoring business operations in order to achieve its objectives.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The Group has designed and implemented procedures to ensure preparing the financial statements.
complete and accurate accounting and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Control measures undertaken include physical controls, segregation of duties and reviews by management.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control was kept under review during the year by the Board.
This review included financial, operational and compliance issues.
A formal evaluation was carried out in 2006 and the Audit Committee has been requested to keep the matter under review.
The Board considers its policies and procedures to be robust, whilst recognising that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Corporate governance Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 49 6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 50 Remuneration report Introduction This report sets out the Groups remuneration policy and also gives details of the salaries, incentives, shares and pensions received by all Directors and members of senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The comparative information for the period ended 31 December 2005 comprises the information for the Company for the period from incorporation on 26 April 2005 to 31 December 2005 and for the former parent company, MUCKO, for the period from 1 January 2005 to the date of its acquisition by Mapeley Limited.
Although a Guernsey incorporated company, Mapeley Limiteds Remuneration Report has been prepared to provide voluntary disclosures in line with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 1985 as amended and the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, together with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees objective is to ensure that the Company continues to be able to attract and motivate individuals with the skills and experience required to operate its business competitively.
The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Director and senior management.
This includes determining the terms of service agreements, salaries and discretionary bonus payments.
The Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors, Mr Carey and Mr Parkinson and is chaired by Mr Edens.
The Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and others attend by invitation.
Further information is given in the corporate governance report.
In determining the Directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP did not provide any other services to the Company or the Group during the year.
Remuneration policy The Committee seeks to ensure that the total remuneration received by the Executive Director and members of the Groups senior management team under their contracts is competitive within the property industry and set so as to motivate them to perform at the highest level.
In order to align the interests of the Executive Director and members of the Groups senior management team with the interests of shareholders, a significant proportion of that Directors or those employees remuneration comprises annual bonuses.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is reviewed and determined by the Board.
Components of executive remuneration Base salary and benets non performance related The Committees policy is to set the basic salaries of the Executive Director and senior managers at levels which reect their role, experience and practices in the employment market.
Base salaries are reviewed annually as at 1 January.
Other benets consist of private medical insurance cover, permanent health insurance, critical illness cover, additional salary in lieu of a company car and pension contributions.
Performance related remuneration For 2006 the Committee has awarded cash bonuses to the Executive Director and senior managers based on assessment of their individual achievements during the year and on the Companys financial performance.
The Companys financial performance is assessed based upon the performance of Mapeley in comparison to the performance of its peers.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, the apportionment of remuneration between performance related and non performance related elements was as follows: Non Performance performance Director related related Jameson Hopkins 53% 47% Wesley R Edens nil 100% Charles Parkinson nil 100% John Harris nil 100% Roger Carey nil 100% Michael Fascitelli nil 100% Since the last annual report, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP were instructed by the Committee to carry out a review and benchmarking exercise on the remuneration and incentive arrangements of the Executive Director and senior managers.
Having received the results of this review, the Committee concluded that the structure and level of remuneration was appropriate based upon the performance of the Group during the year.
Share plan The Group established its Employee Share Plan the Plan including all Executive Directors and senior managers during the year ending 31 December 2005.
This replaced the Leveraged Co-investment Plan LCIP and Performance Option Plan POP operated by MUKCO, the Groups parent Company prior to the Group reorganisation in 2005.
Both the LCIP and POP were wound up during 2004.
50 Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 Remuneration report
