Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee the Committee is established under the terms of reference approved by the Board.
Principal responsibilities The principal responsibilities of the Committee, set out in the terms of reference, are as follows: To evaluate the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board before making appointments: To identify and nominate, for approval of the Board, new candidates: To give full consideration to succession planning: and To review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive.
Membership The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors.
Clive Richards has chaired the Committee since its formation during the year and Christopher Sheridan and Christopher Mackenzie have also served on the Committee during the year.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year ended 30 June 2006.
The Chief Executive has been invited to attend some of the meetings.
The Committee is able to consider items of business without any other parties being present.
Main activities of the Committee Andrew Rosenfeld, who was the former Chief Executive of the Company and is the current Chairman of the Company, will be retiring at the forthcoming 2006 Annual General Meeting scheduled for November 2006.
After undergoing a selection process using executive search specialists, Hanson Green, and in consultation with Salmaan Hasan as Chief Executive, Oliver Whitehead CBE was appointed as non-executive Director and Chairman designate on 19 July 2006.
Oliver Whitehead is currently Chairman of Alfred McAlpine plc which he has been since 2003 and prior to that was Chief Executive from 1993.
Between March 2004 and February 2005, he was non-executive Chairman of ITNET plc.
Formerly Group Chief Executive of Babcock International Group plc, having previously been an executive Director of AMEC plc and John Laing plc.
For and on behalf of the Board Clive Richards Chairman of the Nominations Committee 25 September 2006
