Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 24 Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company and the application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code is set out below.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code, except in relation to the following areas: A system for appraising the performance of the Board and its members Whilst the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance in the period, a formal review of the performance of the Board members or its committees was not undertaken.
However, a system for appraising the performance of the Board members and its Committees has been established during the year and will be implemented, under the direction of the new Chairman, during the course of the next financial year.
An Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee consisting of three independent non-executive Directors The Group made two non-executive appointments since 30 June 2005: Christopher Mackenzie on 1 September 2005 and Oliver Whitehead on 19 July 2006.
Christopher Mackenzie became a member of the Remuneration Committee on appointment to the Board and is expected to become a member of the Audit Committee immediately following the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Oliver Whitehead became a member of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee immediately on appointment to the Board.
Although not for the full financial year under review, following these appointments the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee consisted of three independent non-executive Directors since 1 September 2005 and 19 July 2006 respectively.
At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive Directors Only since the appointment of Christopher Mackenzie to the Board on 1 September 2005, has half the Board comprised indepenent non-executive Directors.
A Nominations Committee A Nominations Committee was formed during the year, initally to recruit a new Chairman for the Company.
Chairman Andrew Rosenfeld, the current Chairman of the Company, was previously Chief Executive of the Company and consequently was not independent on appointment.
It is expected that following the 2006 Annual General Meeting of the Company, Oliver Whitehead, who is considered to be independent, will replace Andrew Rosenfeld as Chairman.
Board of Directors The Company supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for setting overall strategy, acquisitions and disposals, internal control, approval of major capital expenditure projects, treasury and risk management policies, and consideration of significant matters relating to the raising of finance and corporate governance.
The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities which include a schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision and which was reviewed and updated in January 2004.
The members of the Board, and the roles of each Director, are given in the biographical details of the Directors on pages 20 to 21.
Clive Richards remained the senior independent Director.
The Board considers that, notwithstanding that both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have been members of the Board since October 1996, each of the non-executive Directors remain independent.
In addition, the Board considers the new non-executive Directors, Christopher Mackenzie and Oliver Whitehead, to be independent.
In making this determination, the Board has considered whether each Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could affect, the relevant Directors judgement.
During the year the Chairman met with the non-executive Directors without the executives being present.
Board balance and independence The non-executive Directors are of high calibre and contribute wide ranging commercial and financial experience to the Boards decisionmaking process.
The Board considers that the experience and skills of the executives and non-executive Directors on the Board will be further enhanced following the appointment of Oliver Whitehead, who initially joined the Board as a non-executive Director and who is expected to formally replace Andrew Rosenfeld as Chairman of the Company at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that the balance between executives and non-executives is reasonable given the current size of the Company and its activities.
Training in matters that are relevant to their role on the Board are available to all Board Directors, including on appointment.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on pages 20 to 21.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 25 Board attendance In addition to meetings of Directors arranged to discuss particular transactions and events and the 2005 Annual General Meeting and 12 September 2005 Extraordinary General Meeting, the Board met formally on eight occasions during the year under review.
The attendance record of the Directors is shown in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 8 5 6 4 Attended Attended Attended Attended Andrew Rosenfeld 8 Salmaan Hasan 8 1 Paul Coster 3 Ivan Ezekiel 8 2 Tim Garnham 7 Clive Richards 8 5 6 4 Christopher Sheridan 8 5 6 4 3 Christopher Mackenzie 5 2 4 1 Attended all Board meetings held until his retirement from the Board on 30 September 2005.
2 Attended all Board meetings since appointment to the Board on 30 August 2005.
3 Attended five of seven Board meetings and two of four Remuneration Committee meetings since his appointment to the Board on 1 September 2005.
For each scheduled meeting, the Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Rotation of Directors The Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, whereby one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
In addition, all Directors are required to submit themselves for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, non-executive Directors who serve on the Board for more than nine years are required to submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting annually thereafter.
Company Secretary The role of the Company Secretary is carried out by the Finance Director.
The Board considers that combining these roles does not compromise the proper execution of the Secretarys responsibilities.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company and to the services of the Company Secretary who is available to give ongoing advice to all Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance.
Board changes During the year Salmaan Hasan, Tim Garnham and Christopher Mackenzie joined the Board as Chief Executive, Development Director and non-executive Director respectively, whilst Paul Coster retired from the Board on 30 September 2005.
Since the year-end, Oliver Whitehead joined as non-executive Director and is expected to replace Andrew Rosenfeld as Chairman of the Company at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Board committees The Board has established three standing committees in which the non-executive Directors play an active role.
Each committee has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal with the authorities and duties.
These committees are: The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Christopher Sheridan Chairman, Clive Richards and Christopher Mackenzie, met six times during the year ended 30 June 2006.
The Companys executives have attended by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the terms and conditions of employment of executive Directors including the provision of incentives and performance related benefits.
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 27 to 33.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 26 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, comprising Clive Richards Chairman and Christopher Sheridan, met five times during the year ended 30 June 2006.
The Companys auditors and executives have attended by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for, amongst other things, the appointment of external auditors, reviewing the interim and annual financial results, considering matters raised by the auditors and monitoring the internal control system operated by the Group.
The Board is satisfied that both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have extensive and relevant financial experience through their past and present involvement with various listed and unlisted companies.
A report by the Audit Committee is set out on page 35.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee was formed during the year, initially to recruit a new Chairman.
The Committee, comprising Clive Richards Chairman, Christopher Sheridan and Christopher Mackenzie met four times during the year ended 30 June 2006.
The Committee is responsible for the selection and appointment of all Directors to the Board and for succession planning.
A report by the Nominations Committee is set out on page 34.
Relations with shareholders The Company has always recognised the importance of clear communications with shareholders and has encouraged a regular dialogue with institutional and other shareholders.
The Company holds regular meetings with, and presentations to, its existing shareholders and potential new shareholders to discuss strategic and other issues.
Care is taken to ensure the protection of price sensitive information which has not already been made available to all shareholders.
During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Company through the announcement of financial results and other news that are released through the London Stock Exchange, other news services and the Companys website.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Interim Report, Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and any related papers are posted to shareholders with the Annual Report at least 20 working days before the date of the Annual General Meeting to ensure that the shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items of business.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders.
Separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration.
The Company counts all proxy votes and will indicate at the Annual General Meeting the level of proxies lodged on each resolution where such resolution has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Accountability and audit Internal control The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of this process the Board carries out an annual review of significant business risks, considering the scope and effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property, finance and external markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to mitigate those risks.
These are reviewed, adopted and, if appropriate, updated during the year.
These include business risks, financial controls and the regulatory environment.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has resolved that, due to the size of the Company, this is not appropriate at present.
This decision is reviewed annually.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for that period.
The Directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2006, suitable accounting policies, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used.
The Directors also confirm that the going concern basis is appropriate.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining the integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
UK legislation governing preparation and dissemination of financial statements may therefore differ from that in other jurisdictions.
