corporate governance report The following is a summary of the Companys Formal Board meetings are held at least Non-executive directors contracts are for system of Corporate Governance.
bi-monthly and during the year to 31 March 2006, an initial period of three years, which may, in there were six formal meetings which were exceptional circumstances, be extended for introduction attended by all Directors except for one further periods, subject to re-election by the The Board collectively and individually subscribes meeting at which Mr Cross Brown gave his members in general meeting.
Executive to the principles and provisions in the Combined apologies for absence.
During the period, directors have rolling service contracts which Code on Corporate Governance and associated there were 24 other ad hoc Board meetings, provide for a notice period of six months.
guidance and con rms that the Company is quorate, but not necessarily of the full Board, None of the service agreements contain any in compliance with the Code for the year under to facilitate day to day business operations.
liquidated damages or payment in lieu of review except that bonus arrangements, which The non-executive directors also met both damages on change of control provisions.
comprise cash and, under exceptional with and without the Chairman present.
All Directors contracts are available for inspection circumstances, share awards, have no upper at the registered of ce and at the AGM.
limit in the aggregate, although an upper limit is The Board is offered training and information in place in respect of the cash element of the in a form and of a quality it believes is In accordance with the Companys Articles, plan.
The Board believes this is appropriate since, appropriate to enable it to discharge its each Director must stand for re-election at for the share element of the bonus award to duties.
Directors receive training in speci c least every three years.
be triggered, exceptional performance must areas relevant to their speciality and relevant be delivered and it is important to incentivise to the Board as a whole.
New Directors are The Terms of Reference of the Audit and such performance.
offered an induction programme including Remuneration Committees require the tailor-made elements where appropriate.
chairman of each committee to offer the board of directors himself herself for re-election annually.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board The Directors have access to the Company has been approved which is reviewed on an Secretary, who is a Chartered Secretary.
This year Lady Judge, Martin Meech and annual basis.
It includes those matters that The Company Secretary keeps the Directors Adrian Wyatt are standing for re-election as are most signi cant to the Group, based on informed of corporate governance issues Directors.
David Pangbourne is also standing the nature and size of the transaction, both in and changes in the law and best practice for re-election in his capacity as Chairman terms of financial impact and risk.
guidance, ensuring Board procedures are of the Audit Committee and Martin Meech complied with, where required, and has for re-election as Chairman of the Remuneration As part of its collective responsibility for the access to external professional advice at Committee.
Whilst the Chairman of the management of the Group, the Board must the Groups expense.
Company is not a non-executive director, ensure that adequate resources are in place to Nigel Ellis has been a Director since achieve its strategic aims and that its obligations During the year, a formal Board performance November 1995 and accordingly, the Board to shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
evaluation exercise was carried out by means believes that it is appropriate that he should In the management of Group assets, the Board of a questionnaire which all Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis.
is also conscious both of environmental issues responded to.
Its results were considered by The Board recommends to shareholders that and community relations.
As part of the the Board and by the Audit and Remuneration those Directors offering themselves for election planning process for the Wembley and Committees.
A small number of minor points at its forthcoming AGM be re-elected Greenwich urban regeneration projects, the were identi ed and actioned.
The Chairmans because of the signi cant value they create Group has also engaged in extensive performance was considered at a meeting of and the wide ranging skills and experience consultation with central and local government the non-executive directors without the which they bring to bear in the workings and with the communities involved.
The Directors take decisions objectively The non-executive directors bring board committees and in the best interests of the Group, being independent views to the Board.
The Companys policy is that all non-executives collectively and individually responsible for They have diverse experience having are members of all the committees of the its success.
They are accountable to each expertise in chartered surveying, the civil Board except the Risk Committee.
Whilst and every shareholder and take into service, accountancy, law and economics the Directors are aware that this may not be consideration the need to foster the to add to the Boards effectiveness, regarded as best practice by some, they Groups business relationships with other particularly in the areas of corporate believe it to be in the interests of the stakeholders in discharging that obligation.
Company to have maximum diversity Non-executive directors take an active of skills on its committees.
As at the year end, the Board comprised part in debate and not being afraid the Chairman plus three executive and six to challenge proposals ensures the David Pangbourne is currently Chairman non-executive directors, all of the latter being robustness of Board decisions.
Lady Judge of the Audit Committee and stood down considered independent.
It has a good is the deputy chairman of the as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee balance between executive and non-executive Financial Reporting Council and chairman after the 2005 AGM.
directors, with the diversity of relevant skills of the Professional Standards Advisory required to further the interests of shareholders.
Board of the Institute of Directors.
The Audit Committee meets formally at least Brief biographies of each Board member She is a lawyer and expert in corporate three times each year.
It also meets separately can be found on pages 28 and 29.
It is the governance and continues to be the with the auditors and the Companys property Groups policy that executive directors may nominated Senior Independent Director valuers.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, not hold more than one external directorship.
Lady Judges experience and the Committee met on three occasions with James Hamilton Stubber, who resigned as a qualifications make her the most full attendance exept for one meeting at which Director on 2 February 2006, was the director appropriate non-executive director Mr Cross Brown offered his apologies for of a small family property trading company, for this role and she is available to absence.
Its Terms of Reference include which did not con ict in any way with his meet shareholders on request and consideration of the appointment and terms duties and responsibilities at Quintain.
of engagement of the external and internal auditors together with a review of their quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 39 corporate governance report continued going concern independence, objectivity and effectiveness, per employee.
The Committee is currently The following statement is made as required the co-ordination of internal and external chaired by Joan MacNaughton who took on by provision C. 1.
2 of the Code: auditors, reviewing auditors reports, annual the role from Martin Meech after the 2005 and interim reports, asset valuations, internal AGM.
It comprises the non-executive After making enquiries, including reviewing control policy and procedures and consistency.
directors and the Chief Executive.
the Groups budgets and available finance, the Directors have a reasonable expectation The Remuneration Committee is chaired The Risk Committee comprises Tom Cross Brown, that the Group has adequate resources to by Martin Meech who took over from David Pangbourne, John Plender, Martin Meech continue in operational existence for the David Pangbourne after the AGM.
The and Adrian Wyatt and is chaired by foreseeable future.
For this reason, they Committee meets at least three times each Rebecca Worthington.
The Committee met continue to adopt the going concern basis year.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, twice during the year with full attendance in preparing the accounts.
the Committee met five times with full except for one meeting at which Mr Cross Brown attendance at each meeting.
Its Terms offered his apologies for absence.
Matters internal controls of Reference include consideration of within its wide ranging remit include financial The Board is ultimately responsible for the all aspects of the executive directors and treasury issues, valuation, reputation, Groups system of internal control and for performance, employment, remuneration legal, corporate governance, management, reviewing its effectiveness.
It also sets the remuneration economic and operational risks.
a system is designed to manage, rather and incentives policy of the Group as a than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve whole and approves the remuneration of lease code business objectives and can provide only senior staff.
The Remuneration Report is The Company is in support of the initiatives reasonable and not absolute assurance set out on pages 32 to 36. set out in The Code of Practice for Commercial against material misstatement or loss.
In Leases in England and Wales, which was accordance with the Code, the Board has The Nominations Committee is responsible launched on 22 April 2002.
The Code in place an ongoing system of identi cation, for the selection and approval of candidates contains a range of recommendations which evaluation and management of signi cant for appointment to the Board.
The Committee are deemed to represent best practice risks.
The effectiveness of the Groups system meets formally at least once a year and between principals and their representatives of internal controls was reviewed during the otherwise when required.
During the year, in landlord and tenant matters.
period, both by the Audit Committee and by it met once with full attendance.
This review included financial, chaired by Nigel Ellis and comprises all shareholder relations operational, compliance and risk management.
the non-executive directors and the Chief The Finance Director, with the assistance During the year and up to the date of this Executive.
Whilst some guidance views of her fellow executive directors, is primarily report, the Board was not aware of any material Adrian Wyatts membership of this responsible for investor relations and risks or incidents not previously assessed.
It is Committee as not in accordance with best regularly makes contact with institutional and anticipated that in future years this will also practice, the Directors believe it to be in the other shareholders in an effort to maintain an be part of the Risk Committees remit.
best interests of the Group.
The Committees open and effective dialogue.
Terms of Reference include the review of the Risk identification: managers are structure and composition of the Board, the The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director responsible for ongoing identi cation and identi cation of suitable candidates to ll and the other non-executive directors are also evaluation of key risks applicable to their vacancies as and when they arise, making available to meet shareholders to review areas and for taking appropriate action.
recommendations for the re-election of strategy and corporate governance, or to Risks may be associated with a variety Directors and forming succession plans.
Shareholders of internal or external sources including The Terms of Reference for the Nominations views are communicated to the Board as a control breakdowns, disruption in information Committee are available on request from whole and summaries of shareholder meetings systems, competition, natural catastrophe the Company Secretary or on the Companys given to all Directors.
Formal feedback from and regulatory requirements.
shareholders is also given to the Directors by the identi ed and the actions taken to minimise Companys brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited.
or eliminate them are assessed on a regular The Donations Committee is responsible basis by the internal auditors who report to for evaluating charitable requests submitted The Companys AGM provides a further the Audit Committee.
Signi cant findings are to the Company and makes decisions within opportunity for investors to question the presented to the Board and can result in the scope of pre-set criteria which are Directors, both formally and informally.
re nements to internal procedures.
The Committee meets They also have a chance to meet any new as necessary and in between meetings directors.
The number of proxy votes lodged Control environment: the Group is communicates on an informal basis.
The for each motion is announced at the meeting.
committed to the highest standards of Committee works within a policy which business conduct and seeks to maintain requires it to allocate at least 50% of the The Company maintains a website at these standards across all of its operations.
donations budget to organisations working www.
com which provides The Board considers it has an appropriate in the property and construction industries, information relating to the property portfolio, organisational structure for planning, the local communities in which the Group policy statements, finance, contacts, press executing, controlling and monitoring operates and those involved in accessibility releases and on-screen annual reports.
business operations in order to achieve programmes.
It also encourages staff There is also a section containing the the Groups objectives.
participation in the raising of funds for Companys statutory documents.
Interested charity, by matching the fund raising efforts parties may register to receive noti cation Lines of responsibility and delegation of individual employees who participate in of press releases and may contact the of authority are documented.
charitable events up to a maximum of 500 Company by email.
40 quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 Information and communication: periodic The Group has entered into a number of strategic reviews are carried out which joint ventures, the most material being the include the consideration of long term Quercus Healthcare Property Partnership projections and the evaluation of business and Meridian Delta Limited, which are not alternatives.
Annual budgets and strategic controlled by the Company.
These have plans are prepared.
The portfolio manager therefore not been included as part of the provides management with regular operational Group for the purposes of the internal progress reports for consideration and, where control assessment.
Periodic forecasts support the active monitoring of The Board is committed to following corporate the Groups performance against plan.
Both governance best practice wherever possible results and forecasts are consolidated and and has undertaken to review its position presented to the Board on a regular basis.
It has considered its system of internal control and its effectiveness for the The other key elements of the Groups financial year and up to the date of this system of internal control are as follows: report and, in its opinion, the process accords with the current guidance.
regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee, whose overall By order of the Board responsibilities are set out in this Report and the Audit Committees Terms of Reference: a management structure designed to enable effective decision-making with clearly fide ned responsibilities and limits of authority.
An important part of sue dixon this structure is a weekly meeting of Company Secretary the executive directors to review the 31 May 2006 ongoing business and decide on proposed acquisitions divestments and capital expenditure: agreed operational procedures, both internal and in dealings with external bodies, which assist in the maintenance of uniformly high standards: the measurement of financial performance at least once every three months against budgets and long term financial plans: consideration by the Risk Committee of issues which may affect the Group on a wider basis: and investigation by internal audit staff of areas of speci c risk.
quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 41
