audit committee report internal control The Board recognises that it is ultimately The duties of the Audit Committee are set The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for the system of internal out in its Terms of Reference, which were responsible for the system of internal control control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
reviewed and approved during the period and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In carrying In carrying out its duties, it delegates and include: out its duties, it delegates detailed detailed responsibility for internal control responsibility for internal control to the Audit to the Audit Committee.
monitoring the integrity of the financial Committee.
Management prepares financial statements and any financial statements and disclosures in accordance introduction announcements and signi cant with applicable rules and regulations which The Audit Committee submits its report for reporting judgements therein: the Committee reviews for clarity, completeness, the year ended 31 March 2006, which sets accuracy and context, and on which it reports out the Groups audit policy and the role of considering and making back to the Board.
the Committee in monitoring the financial recommendations to the Board systems and the management of external regarding the appointment or removal The Group is committed to the highest and internal auditors which are carried out of the internal and external auditors: standards of business conduct and seeks in accordance with current legislation and to maintain these standards across all of its best practice.
reviewing internal financial controls: operations.
The Group has what it believes to be an appropriate organisational structure Once again, the Directors will be seeking monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness for planning, executing, controlling and approval of the Groups Audit Committee of the internal audit function: monitoring business operations in order Report from its shareholders at its AGM.
reviewing the nature and scope of the audit committee external audit and monitoring the external The Group has procedures designed to The Audit Committee comprises all the auditors independence and effectiveness: ensure complete and accurate accounting, non-executive Directors and since and to limit the potential exposure to loss of October 2002 has been chaired by forming policy on the supply of non-audit assets or fraud.
Control measures undertaken David Pangbourne who is a former partner services by the external auditors: include physical controls, segregation of with Deloitte & Touche LLP and a quali ed duties, reviews by management, and internal Chartered Accountant.
During the year, the considering reports of the internal and and external audit.
Committee met three times with full attendance external auditors in the light of current on all but one occasion on which corporate governance practice: and In accordance with the Combined Code on Mr Cross Brown offered his apologies Corporate Governance, the effectiveness of for absence.
The Chairman will be present reviewing arrangements for staff to raise the Groups system of internal control was at the AGM to answer questions from financial concerns in con dence.
kept under review during the period, both shareholders and offer himself for re-election.
by the Committee and by the Board.
This The Terms of Reference, which are reviewed review included financial, operational and The Finance Director, the Chief Financial annually, may be found on the Companys compliance issues.
Of cer and others attend by invitation.
website or are available on request from its The Committee met with the external auditor registered of ce.
The Board considers its policy and procedures twice during the year without management to be robust whilst recognising that such a being present.
It met the valuers of the The Committee confirms that there has system is designed to manage rather than Groups principal properties prior to the been an ongoing process in place for the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business release of the interim and preliminary identi cation, evaluation and management objectives and can provide only reasonable results, with the external auditors present.
of risk during the period to the date of the and not absolute assurance against material publication of this report, and the Committee misstatement or loss.
In addition, the Committee has access to is not aware of any previously unidenti ed risks.
funding for any further independent legal, accounting or other advice it believes to be necessary for the effective execution of its duties.
quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 37 audit committee report continued Monitoring is achieved through assessment At the end of the audit cycle, the external by the internal auditor at the direction of auditors report is reviewed by the Committee, the Committee and the presentation to which reports the auditors findings and the Board of findings together with makes recommendations to the Board.
recommendations of any appropriate The Committee also reviews the effectiveness corrective actions to be taken.
The Group of the audit process itself, including: currently has one full-time internal auditor who reports to the Committee Chairman whether the auditor has met the and to the Committee itself at least twice a management plan: year.
The internal auditor also attends the Committee meetings on request to discuss the robustness and perceptiveness of any issues arising and answer questions the auditor in handling key accounting directly.
The scope of the internal audit audit judgements and systems of work was reviewed during the period and internal control: agreed with the Committee Chairman and Finance Director.
obtaining feedback from key personnel: and The Group has in place a whistle blowing policy under which members of staff with the content of the management letter.
concerns may raise these in con dence under procedures contained in the During the year, the Committee reviewed staff handbook.
its procedures to ensure the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The auditor external auditor has its own internal procedures in place to The Groups external auditor was first ensure that none of the audit team has a appointed in April 1992.
In July 1996, the personal or financial interest in the Company audit was transferred to a corporate body, which might impair their judgement or KPMG Audit Plc the external auditor.
Furthermore, it is the auditors policy that the lead audit director be rotated The Committee makes recommendations at least every five years, in line with which the on the appointment of, and approves the audit director in charge of the audit team remuneration of, the external auditor, with was replaced in April 2003. particular regard to the setting of appropriate parameters of the audit.
It also ensures The Groups policy regarding provision of the external auditors overall work plan is non-audit services by the auditor includes a consistent with the terms of engagement requirement that any commitment to fees of and reviews the audit representation letters 20,000 or more to the auditor for non-audit prior to signature by management.
services must be given prior permission from either the Committee or the Board.
The total The Committee meets the external auditor value of the auditors fees was as follows: periodically to ensure a direct line of 285,000 for audit fees and 71,000 for communication, to review its independence non-audit fees.
A breakdown of these can and to agree the audit plan.
Deloitte & Touche LLP provided taxation advice from The Committee reviews signi cant financial 1 April 2004. reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of preliminary, interim and other price sensitive public reports.
The Chairman and the Committee discuss any major accounting or other audit issues that arise with the external auditor.
david pangbourne Chairman of Audit Committee 31 May 2006 38 quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006
