62 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and control of Functioning of the Board The Directors receive management information, the Companys activities and is committed to high standards of Corporate including financial, operating and strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
The Board regularly reviews its corporate governance policies and During the year the Board held nine regular meetings.
Attendance by Directors at procedures inter alia to reflect the impact of the Higgs Review of the Role and meetings is outlined in the attendance of meeting table on page 64.
When unable Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors, the Smith Report on Audit Committees to be present in person, the two Non-Executive Directors based in the US and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was TCC corporate representatives who resigned on 20 December 2006 and introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2003.
Robert McKellar, who is based in Asia, may attend by audio or video-conference.
When Directors are not able to attend Board or Committee meetings, their comments Compliance The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, with on the papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant the exception of one area detailed below see Board composition and balance, Chairman.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically referred the Company has complied with the provisions recommended in Section 1 of the to it for decision.
These matters reserved for the Board include: Code which applies to the financial period that is the subject of this Annual Report and Accounts.
approval and management of Group corporate strategy: review of Group policies and codes of conduct: Board composition and balance The Board presently comprises a approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent Non-Executive Directors and material changes: five Executive Directors.
The biographies of the current Board members appear review of performance, assessed against the Groups strategy, objectives, on pages 58 and 59. business plans and budgets: approval of interim and preliminary announcements and the Annual Report The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separated.
The Chairman is and Accounts: responsible for the workings and leadership of the Board and for the balance of its approval of the dividend policy: membership.
approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: extension of the Groups activities into new other geographic areas: The Chief Executive is responsible for leading and managing the business within approval of any significant acquisitions or investments: the authorities delegated by the Board.
any decision to divest any Group business: delegation of the appropriate authorities and agreeing terms of reference Martin Angle who was appointed to the Board on 2 January 2007 and for its various committees: subsequently appointed to the Audit, Appointments and Remuneration delegation of the appropriate authorities to the ESC: and Committees on 30 January 2007, Timothy Ingram, Fields Wicker-Miurin and the appointment of new Directors.
Charles McVeigh are independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the year under review there were two additional Non-Executive Directors who were corporate The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice each year without the representatives of Trammell Crow Company TCC and as such were not presence of the Executive Directors and also meet without the Chairman, at which considered independent for the purposes of the Code: these Directors resigned time the Chairmans performance is appraised.
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no business or other relationship There is an approved procedure for Directors to take independent professional which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, all the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board is not currently compliant with the provision of the Code which requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that under Savills current operational structure it is appropriate for the principle Executive Directors to be members of the Savills plc Board and that there is an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and that no individual or small group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The Non-Executive Directors have a wide range of business experience and expertise and provide a strong independent element to the Board.
The Board will keep under review the need for any changes to the composition of the Board.
Since 1 November 2004, Timothy Ingram has been the Senior Independent Director.
63 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance Corporate Governance Report Board committees The Board has delegated certain authorities to committees The internal auditors are KPMG who serve the Group on a global basis.
The UK each with formal terms of reference.
The terms of reference for the Audit, business has established whistleblowing procedures to ensure that arrangements Appointments and Remuneration Committees are available on request and are are in place to enable employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties in also available on the Companys website www.
The members of each financial reporting and other matters on a confidential basis.
The arrangements for committee are indicated on pages 58 and 59.
The principal committees of the operations outside the UK continues to be developed as the business evolves.
Board are as follows: Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of the four independent Appointments Committee The Committee consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Charles McVeigh and Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by meets at least twice a year to determine Company policy on senior executive Peter Smith.
The Committee meets as required to nominate candidates for the remuneration and to agree the detailed remuneration packages of the Executive approval of the Board to fill vacancies or new positions on the Board of Directors Directors.
The Remuneration Committee takes the advice of external consultants and to make recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
from time to time as appropriate.
The Group Chief Executive is consulted on the The Committee met once in 2006. remuneration packages of the other Directors and senior executives and attends remuneration discussions by invitation, except when his own position is being During the year, the Board commenced a thorough selection process for the discussed.
Given the central part that remuneration plays in the success of the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director and external consultants Company, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
were appointed to assist in this process.
The Board delegated responsibility for the process to the Appointments Committee.
On 2 January 2007, Martin Angle Executive Sub Committee Savills plc has an Executive Sub Committee ESC, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and received appropriate briefing which comprises the Group Chief Executive and such other Executive Directors as on his role and responsibilities and on Board procedures.
The Board is the Board shall nominate from time to time.
Any Director of the Company may be satisfied that he is of suitable stature to perform his role as an independent invited by the Committee from time to time to attend all or part of the Committees Non-Executive Director.
Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, the ESC reviews the day to day operations of the Group including risk management, authorises The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors must submit certain investments, monitors Group performance and may deal with other specific themselves for re-election every three years and that newly appointed Directors matters delegated to it by the Board.
The current Committee members are must submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting indicated on pages 58 and 59.
The Committee generally meets at least once after their appointment.
In making recommendations to shareholders for the between Board meetings and the Minutes of the ESC are circulated to all Board re-appointment of any Director, the Appointment Committee considers that members in advance of full Board meetings.
Directors performance and ongoing contribution to the success of the Company and makes its relevant recommendation to the Board.
Board performance and evaluation A formal review of Board performance was undertaken by an external consultant who carried out an evaluation process Audit Committee The Committee consists of the four independent Non-Executive which reported in March 2006 and concluded that the Board and its main Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Fields Wicker-Miurin and met five times committees were working satisfactorily.
At its meeting on 6 March 2007, members during the year.
The Committee considers the scope and results of the annual of the Board reviewed progress and during 2007, the Board will continue to keep audit and interim review, receives and considers reports from both the internal the recommendations under review and will consider whether a further structured auditor and the Groups external auditors, considers the adequacy and review is required for 2008. effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management and assesses the auditors performance.
The Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive In addition, during 2006 a comprehensive strategic review was undertaken by and Group Financial Controller may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee, an independent consultant who considered the functioning of the Board and but are not members.
The Committee determines that its various members bring executive management.
appropriate experience to the role.
The Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to carry out the functions of the Committee.
The Committee considers on an ongoing basis the independence of the external auditors and has established policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the external auditors to perform non-audit services.
As detailed on page 61 the external auditors are  LLP who have provided certain non-audit services to the Company, principally advice on taxation, but the Audit Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by  LLP and its objectivity has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
64 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance Corporate Governance Report Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at Board and Committee Directors remuneration The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 66 to 75.
Meetings convened in the year ended 31 December 2006 was as follows: The Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2007.
Audit Remuneration Appointments Board Committee Committee Committee Relations with shareholders The Board seeks to maintain an open relationship Number of meetings in year 9 5 5 1 and the Group Chief Executive has a regular programme of meetings with analysts Attended Attended Attended Attended and maintains a dialogue with shareholders which ensures that the Board is aware of shareholder sentiment.
Meetings are held with major institutional shareholders Non-Executive Directors regularly and include presentations at the time of the Companys preliminary Peter Smith 9 1 announcement of annual and interim results.
The Senior Independent Director will make himself available for the investor meetings held by the Group Chief Executive William Concannon upon request.
The Board also reviews a report each year from its corporate broker resigned 20 December 2006 3 on feedback from investors and the markets view of the Company.
Timothy Ingram 9 5 5 1 The Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Statement are sent to all Fields Wicker-Miurin 9551 shareholders.
The participation of private shareholders at the AGM is welcomed Derek McClain and all shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, which is attended resigned 20 December 2006 5 by the Board.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman declared the level and manner of voting of proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM held during the Charles McVeigh 8 5 5 1 year.
The Chairmen of the Boards principal committees were present at the 2006 Executive Directors AGM to answer shareholders questions as required.
The Directors aim to give as much notice of the AGM as possible which will be at least 21 days, as required by Aubrey Adams 9 the Companys Articles of Association.
In practice, this Report and Notice of AGM Jeremy Helsby 7 are being sent to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM as required under the Code.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting of shareholders Simon Hope 9 and explanatory notes are sent to shareholders with this report.
Robert McKellar 9 Information about the Company is also available on the website at www.
com Rupert Sebag-Montefiore 9 Members of the ESC.
The ESC met 12 times during the year.
Simon Hope was appointed to the Internal control and risk management The Board recognises that it has Committee on 25 April 2006. overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control and risk management to safeguard the shareholders investment and the Insurance cover The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control and officers against their costs in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance with regard taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the to the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition and the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
The insurance does not provide cover maintenance of financial information used within the business or for publication.
where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
65 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Monitoring systems with respect to financial, operational and compliance risks, system of internal control and that the system has been in place throughout the where appropriate, including: year and up to the date of approval of the accounts and complies with the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
A programme of internal audits undertaken in accordance with an annual risk based plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The plan is designed to ensure Key elements of the Groups system of internal control during 2006 were: that the internal audit activity is focused on priority areas on a global basis in order to provide an independent assessment of and challenge to the Groups A comprehensive system for planning and reporting the performance of each system of internal controls.
The Board meets regularly and reviews the Groups overall results against plan and the previous year: forecasts are regularly updated.
A compliance programme within the regulated businesses in support of the Clear responsibilities are given to operational and financial managers for the Groups commitment to conduct its business responsibly and in accordance maintenance of effective financial controls and the production of accurate and with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
Annual self assessment questionnaires completed by senior management in The regular review and assessment of the performance of the business including each part of the business.
The results are collated and trends analysed for in relation to risk management and internal controls by the Board and its sub consideration by the ESC.
committees, including the Executive Sub Committee ESC.
The ESC generally meets before each Board meeting.
There is also a formal policy and procedure available to all employees who are concerned about possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish Attendance at operating subsidiary and associate boards by Executive Directors.
to ensure that action is taken without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
These boards and their associated committees also meet regularly and have formal reporting structures.
Directors of operating companies are also closely The framework and risk profile is regularly reviewed with actions being taken where involved in the day-to-day business of their respective operations identifying weaknesses have been identified in the mitigation of risk.
business risks and appropriate action to be taken.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation Backed by a Group Risk Management Policy, an appropriate risk management that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the framework and process for identifying, evaluating, assessing, and managing foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis significant risks to the business faced by the Group aligned to our business in preparing the Accounts.
strategy, supported with an appropriate organisational structure and clearly defined responsibilities.
By order of the Board Peter Smith Chairman 13 March 2007
