46 Corporate governance report St. Modwen is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Code recommends that all members of the audit and governance.
The board of directors, through the executive directors remuneration committees are independent non-executive and management, exercises effective control over the group and its directors.
Each of these committees comprises all of the nonactivities, recognising its responsibility to shareholders and other executive members of the board.
As explained above, Simon interested parties.
The procedures for applying these principles Clarke is not a fully independent director under the Code, but within the group are set out below.
This should be read in the board considers that its discussions benefit from his conjunction with the directors remuneration report on pages involvement in the preparatory detailed scrutiny which takes 53 to 60. place in these committees.
As also noted above, Simon Clarke has a strong interest in challenging and monitoring Throughout the year ended 30th November 2006 the company has managements performance.
Additionally, it is proposed that complied with the Code except for the following matters: Christopher Roshier will stand down from both committees at the Annual General Meeting AGM : and The Code asks the board to identify each non-executive director it considers to be independent.
Of the six non-executive directors The Code recommends that a chief executive should not go at the end of 2006, the board considers Mary Francis, Ian on to be the chairman of the same company.
As explained in Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg, Christopher Roshier and John Salmon previous years annual reports, the board recommended the to be fully independent.
The Code seeks an explanation for the appointment of former Chief Executive Anthony Glossop as determination of independence in certain circumstances, including Chairman of the company.
This was endorsed by shareholders if a non-executive has served for longer than nine years.
at the Annual General Meeting in April 2004.
The roles of the Christopher Roshier has been a non-executive director for Chairman and Chief Executive are carefully differentiated and nineteen years, but the board is satisfied that he maintains an set out in job descriptions agreed by the board.
The Chief independent and rigorous approach to all of its business and Executive is wholly responsible for the profitability of the accordingly considers him to be independent.
In accordance with company and its internal operations.
Anthony Glossop, in the Code, he is standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual addition to his normal role as Chairman, supports the Chief General Meeting.
The board recognises that Simon Clarke does Executive in key external business relationships, on major not meet the criteria for a fully independent director under the projects, and in matters affecting the companys reputation Code, although his position as a representative of the Clarke and and integrity.
Leavesley families, who together hold 51.4m shares 42.5% in the Board composition and committees companys equity, gives him a very strong interest in challenging The composition of the board provides an appropriate blend of and scrutinising management to secure excellent performance experience and qualifications, and the number of non-executives from the company: provides a strong base for ensuring appropriate corporate governance of the company.
The boards decisions are The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding implemented by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the nonthe chairman, should comprise independent non-executive executives also met during the year without the executive directors directors.
The board currently comprises five non-executive being present.
directors whom it determines to be independent: one nonexecutive Simon Clarke who is not deemed fully independent Christopher Roshier is the senior independent director.
He is under the Code but who as explained above has a available for consultation by shareholders, whenever appropriate.
strong interest as a shareholder representative in challenging and scrutinising management: and four executive members The companys Articles of Association provide that all directors are including the chairman.
The object sought by the Code that subject to re-election at least every three years.
In addition, all no individual or group of individuals can dominate the boards decision-making is thus achieved: directors are subject to re-election by shareholders after their initial appointment.
Corporate governance report 47 The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
It is b Audit committee intended that appointments will be for an initial term of three years, The audit committee, which comprises all of the non-executive which may be extended by mutual agreement.
Prior to each nondirectors, was chaired by Christopher Roshier until April 2006.
At executive offering himself to the members for re-election his the AGM in April 2006 John Salmon assumed the chairmanship.
reappointment must be confirmed by the Chairman in consultation The Finance Director attends these meetings but the committee with the remainder of the board.
also meets without executive directors being present and has private sessions with the auditors.
The committee has direct access The terms and conditions of appointment of all directors are to the auditors.
available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours, and at the AGM.
The audit committees functions include: The board is supplied with timely and relevant information regarding Ensuring that appropriate accounting systems and financial the business, through regular monthly and ad hoc reports, site visits controls are in operation and that the companys financial and presentations from members of the management team and by statements comply with statutory and other requirements: meetings with key partners.
Where appropriate, the company provides Receiving reports from, and consulting with, the external the resources to enable directors to update and upgrade their auditors: knowledge.
Through the company secretary, the board is informed of Reviewing the interim and annual results and reports to corporate governance issues and all board members have access via shareholders, and considering any matters raised by the the company secretary to independent advice if required.
auditors: Considering the appropriateness of the accounting policies of The criteria used for evaluating individual executive directors the company used in preparing its financial statements: performance are included in the directors remuneration report.
Monitoring the progress of the company in preparing for, and Individual non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the implementing, the introduction of International Financial Chairman and Chief Executive.
The performance of the board as a Reporting Standards: whole is assessed in the context of the companys achievement of Monitoring the scope, cost-effectiveness and objectivity of its strategic objectives and total shareholder return targets.
the audit: Feedback on the company is sought through external surveys from Monitoring the companys policy on non-audit services shareholders, analysts and other professionals within the investment provided by the external auditors: community following the regular briefings, presentations and site Making an annual assessment of the external auditors and visits undertaken by the company.
This feedback is made available recommending, or not, their reappointment: to the whole board.
Considering the need for an internal audit function: Reviewing whistle-blowing arrangements within the In support of the principles of good corporate governance, the company: and board has appointed the following committees, all of which have Reviewing its own performance, constitution and terms of formal terms of reference which are available for inspection by reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness shareholders and are posted on the companys website.
and recommending any changes it considers necessary to the board for approval.
a Remuneration committee The composition and function of the remuneration committee are The audit committee has reviewed the need to establish an internal set out in the directors remuneration report on pages audit function.
Given the increasing size, complexity and 53 to 60. geographical scope of the companys operations, the company has decided to proceed with the appointment of an internal auditor tasked with formalising and documenting internal control procedures and ensuring compliance.
The newly appointed internal auditor took up her role on 2nd January 2007.
48 Corporate governance report The committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by Board effectiveness the external auditors is that, whilst it is appropriate and costThe Code recommends that the board undertakes a formal and effective for the external auditors to provide tax compliance and tax rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance.
A formal planning services to the group, other services should only be evaluation, facilitated by an external assessor, Dr Tracy Long of provided where alternative providers do not exist or where it is costBoardroom Review, was undertaken during 2005 and 2006.
This effective or in the groups interest for the external auditors to provide review comprised feedback from questionnaires, individual such services.
In all cases the provision of non-audit services is interviews and board observation, resulting in a board discussion carefully monitored by, and subject to the prior approval of, the paper and action plan.
The principal findings of the review were that the board functions well as a team, with high levels of trust and committee.
The external auditors would not be invited to provide any non-audit services where it was felt that this could conflict with respect amongst new and existing members, and an ability to deal their independence or objectivity.
Such services would include the capably with change.
Financial documentation and controls have provision of internal audit and management consulting services.
been upgraded, and recent improvements have been made in the area of board and committee independence and composition, As part of the regular review of its providers of professional services, board agendas, shareholder communication and corporate the board has decided to put the audit out to a tender process governance.
Three areas for improvement were identified: involving a number of firms, including Ernst & Young, the current maximising board contribution: succession planning: and risk auditors.
This process will not be completed by the time of the AGM analysis.
Actions taken to address these areas were: in April.
Thus Ernst & Young are being put forward at the AGM for re-election as auditors.
Sharpened focus of board agendas and papers: Reviewed levels of authority and board involvement in major c Nominations committee project acquisitions: The nominations committee was reconstituted in 2006 and now Increased time given to strategy and risk analysis: and comprises the Chairman as chairman of the committee, Mary Identified structure for succession planning.
Francis, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg and John Salmon.
Risk management and internal control The board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the The resignation of Richard Froggatt left the board with a potential identification and mitigation of risks and the development and vacancy, and the growing size of the company meant that the Chief maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control.
Executive needed greater support from an executive with board level status.
The committee felt that if a suitable internal candidate During the period under review the directors have reviewed the was available, an external search was not appropriate, and on that effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with basis a recommendation was made by the nominations committee the Turnbull guidance, through the production of a detailed report to the board for the appointment of Steve Burke as Construction which covered: the groups control environment: the manner in Director.
which key business risks are identified: the adequacy of information Board and committee attendance systems and control procedures: and the manner in which any The board met eleven times during the year.
The audit committee required corrective action is to be taken.
met three times, the nominations committee twice, and the remuneration committee five times.
All members attended all meetings except that Simon Clarke, Mary Francis and John Salmon each did not attend one board meeting on account of holiday commitments, and Richard Froggatt did not attend the meeting after he tendered his resignation.
Simon Clarke also did not attend an audit committee meeting which coincided with the board meeting when he was on holiday.
Corporate governance report 49 The groups key internal controls are centred on comprehensive Management of key risks monthly reporting from all activities which includes a detailed The key risks that have been identified, the management approach portfolio analysis, development progress reviews, management to each, and the assessment of the residual risk, are set out below: accounts and a comparison of committed expenditure against available facilities.
These matters are reported to the board monthly, 1.
Organisational people factors with reasons for any significant variances from budget.
Detailed The risks identified included: annual budgets are reviewed by the board and revised forecasts for Succession planning and talent management the year are prepared on a regular basis.
IT Disaster planning There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment The principal mitigating actions are: Targeted recruitment procedures properties, contracts and commitments and a formal schedule of Competitive remuneration packages matters, including major investment and development decisions and Strong performance-related link to remuneration strategic matters, that are reserved for board approval.
Formal policies and procedures are in place covering all elements of Regular assessment of performance and identification of employment, the construction process, health and safety and IT.
training needs The company is currently working in conjunction with FAST Tailored training programme Federation Against Software Theft to achieve their Gold Regular communication of strategic and tactical objectives Accreditation for software licensing compliance.
The company Properly resourced and structured IT solutions already holds Bronze and Silver awards and is looking to achieve the Appropriate disaster recovery procedures Gold Standard in 2007.
Assessment Employee turnover has been low, indicating good Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not retention levels.
Vacancies are few, and are generally filled promptly, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The indicating the attractiveness of the company and remuneration directors continue, however, to strive to ensure that internal control packages.
To support the financial objectives, we will need to and risk management are further embedded into the operations of continue to improve the employee base.
the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are identified.
In the year under review, no material loss was suffered by 2.
Economic property risks a failure of internal control.
The risks identified included: Demand for space from occupiers Risks and uncertainties Rental levels The key business risks facing the company, their potential impact and Investment yield their mitigation are reviewed regularly.
This year the risks were assessed Relative sector performance against a set of scenarios, and were found to be still appropriate.
Over exposure to single tenant scheme Site assembly risk Occupational risks Investment value risk 50 Corporate governance report The principal mitigating actions are: 4.
Financial risks Regular dialogue with industry experts and commentators The risks identified included: Use of high quality professional advisers Lack of available funds The hopper and geographical spread gives flexibility and Interest rates facilitates diversification Taxation Emphasis on value creation through active property management and development The principal mitigating actions are: Small number of high-quality banking relationships Assessment We have chosen to operate only in one geographical Hedging policy to contain interest rate risk area, the UK, which is subject to relatively low-risk, low-returns from Benchmarking of costs of finance a stable and mature, albeit cyclical economy and property market.
Tax strategy identifying areas of acceptable innovation By involvement with all sectors of that economy and that property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing Assessment Our conservative approach to financing reduces the overseas.
opportunity for true innovation in this area.
This is offset by the benefits of stability, reliability and borrowing capacity, ensuring 3.
Regulatory factors finance is available for all foreseeable projects.
The risks identified included: Planning 5.
Failure to secure schemes Tax The risks identified included: Technology Competition Lease structures Overheated market People The principal mitigating actions are: Reputation Being alert to policies being promoted Use of high quality professional advisers The principal mitigating actions are: In-house expert resources in planning residential Regional offices in touch with their local market construction tax IT Strong performance-related link to remuneration Dedicated central resource to support regional teams Assessment Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning Streamlined and effective decision-making process process, and internal procedures for spreading best practice ensure Availability of adequate finance we remain abreast of most developments.
We have not been very Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions in response active in attempting to influence public policy debate, but may need to changing market conditions to do so as we grow.
Assessment The increasing focus on the regions to deliver acquisitions, and the growing reputation and financial capacity of the company, have enabled us to deliver more than the target of replacing 120% of land used over the past five years.
However, current high prices, and the ever-growing target levels for acquisitions, pose a challenge for future years programmes.
Corporate governance report 51 01 At first sight, a simple business park, but in practice the outcome of a long-running public private partnership, Widnes Regeneration Limited, which requires a talented and well-managed team.
Social, ethical and environmental risks 7.
Construction risk The risks identified included: The risks identified included: Health, safety & environment risk Build quality Climate change Remediation contamination Business ethics Liability issues Internal controls Customer satisfaction The principal mitigating actions are: A strong internal construction management team The principal mitigating actions are: Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed and Systems of control procedures and delegated authorities financially appraised in detail within clearly defined Regular and detailed operational and financial reporting authorisation limits Regular dialogue with industry investors and commentators Regular management reviews Close supervision of transactions and key relationships Use and close supervision of high-quality trusted contractors Proactive press media contacts and professionals Regular top-level meetings with local authorities, RDAs, and Contractual liability clearly defined other government or quasi-governmental bodies Assessment The company is willing to accept a degree of Assessment The company has benefited from an excellent reputation.
environmental contamination risk, enabling higher returns to be made This is underpinned by a simple set of operating commitments.
for the perceived higher risks undertaken.
These risks are laid-off or minimised where possible, but cannot be eliminated.
In our recent experience, the residual risks have been acceptably low.
01 52 Corporate governance report 01 Dursley A shot showing the transformation of this 92 acre site.
The river Cam, buried in a culvert for over 50 years, is reopened and developable land is created from a former gas works and a mound of contaminated foundry sand.
Shareholder relations Copies of all press releases, investor presentations and Annual The executive directors have a programme of meetings with Reports are posted on the companys website institutional shareholders and analysts at which the companys strategy www.
co. uk, together with additional details of major and most recently reported performance are explained and questions projects, key financial information and company background.
and comments made are relayed to the whole board.
Visits are also arranged to sites of particular interest or significance to assist investors To simplify and encourage participation in voting on resolutions at understanding of the companys business.
The companys AGM is our AGM, the company provides the opportunity to vote also used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
In electronically through CREST for further details, see page 115. addition to the usual period for questions which is made available for Business standards shareholders at the AGM, John Salmon, the chairman of the audit The company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in committee, and Mary Francis, the chairman of the remuneration business dealings and has disciplinary procedures in place to deal committee, will be available to answer appropriate questions.
Any with any illegal or inappropriate activities by employees.
matters of concern regarding the company are discussed by the senior independent director with shareholders or appropriate corporate governance bodies and comments are fed back by him to the whole board.
