The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 26 Corporate governance statement Introduction The groups corporate governance framework is aimed at ensuring an alignment of interests between shareholders and management.
Within this framework, there is a clear separation of roles and responsibilities.
The functions of governance are undertaken by the companys shareholders and by the board of directors who act on their behalf while the functions of management are delegated to the groups Chief Executive and his management team.
Role played by shareholders Shareholders play a key role in the groups governance by electing the directors, by monitoring and rewarding their performance and by engaging in constructive dialogue with the board and senior management.
All directors are subject to re-election to the board every three years, with at least one-third of the board retiring by rotation each year.
Any director appointed by the board during the year will also stand for appointment by shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
The biographies of each director can be found on page 27.
In order to facilitate easier voting by our shareholders, for the 2007 Annual General Meeting we shall enable all shareholders to vote electronically either via Crest or directly with our Registrars and include a vote withheld box on the proxy voting forms.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director who is also Chairman of the audit committee and the Chairman of the remuneration committee will attend the Annual General Meeting on 23rd April 2007 and will be available to meet shareholders.
Outside the annual general meeting, the Chairman, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for ensuring that there is ongoing and effective communication with shareholders.
If shareholders have any concerns, which contact through the normal channels with the Chief Executive, Finance Director or Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate, then Philip Rogerson, the Senior Independent Director, is available to them.
To that end, both individuals make themselves available, when requested, for meetings with investors on issues relating to the groups governance and strategy.
Over 50 separate meetings and telephone conference calls were held in 2006 with major shareholders in the UK, the US, Denmark and Sweden, by either or both the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
As expected, these meetings have focused primarily on the groups trading operations and immediate prospects.
Where significant views were expressed during or following the meeting via our brokers, these were summarised and circulated to all directors.
In December 2005 an operational review by the executive team including divisional management took place at our Merton site in the UK for an invited group of financial analysts and shareholders.
Positive feedback was received and a similar event has been scheduled for May 2007 in Denmark.
Role of the board and its relationship with executive management The principal role of the board is to set the parameters within which the group seeks to further the interests of its shareholders and to monitor the performance of the executives to whom it delegates the management of the business.
However, although it does not interfere in the day-to-day activities of the groups senior management, the board does have a formal schedule of matters that are reserved for its own decision.
This schedule was reviewed and approved in May 2005 following the appointment of the current Chairman and Chief Executive and includes, among other matters: the establishment of the groups overall strategy: major changes to the groups capital, corporate or management structure: major investments, capital projects and contracts: major changes to the groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management: changes to board structure and membership: determination of the remuneration policy for directors and other senior executives: the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive: the terms of reference for all board committees: and the groups ethics policy and its policies on corporate social responsibility including health and safety.
The Chairman of the board, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring a challenging and constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors.
Between board meetings there is regular interaction between the Chief Executive and the Chairman and, where necessary, with other board members.
Prior to each board meeting an agenda, together with supporting papers, is circulated to directors to ensure they are supplied with all the information required.
Included with these papers are detailed monthly accounts, together with reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Managing Directors of Berendsen and Sunlight.
As part of this process, the board also reviewed and approved the groups 2007 budget.
After each board meeting, there is a comprehensive follow-up procedure to ensure that major actions are completed as agreed by the board.
Since their appointments in May 2005, the Chief Executive, Roger Dye, and the Finance Director, Kevin Quinn, have ensured that the board is kept fully aware of business issues and prospects throughout the group.
Both are directors of Sunlight and attend monthly Sunlight board meetings.
They are also directors of Sophus Berendsen A S and, as well as attending monthly Berendsen board meetings, they attend individual Berendsen country board meetings by rotation, thereby meeting regularly the management teams of each operation.
The key issues raised at these meetings are brought to the attention of the board.
The senior management teams at both Sunlight and Berendsen have also met with the board in 2006.
These sessions have been very comprehensive and have given board members detailed insight into the operations of the Sunlight and Berendsen businesses, their challenges and their opportunities.
These meetings and subsequent follow-up demonstrate the free ow of information and communication between the board and the senior management teams within the group.
Similar sessions have already been scheduled for 2007.
