13397UKCOALFRT:UK COAL Quark Template 14 3 07 11:37 Page 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of Corporate Governance and the following sections explain how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 save for the following.
Currently, the Nomination Committee does not comprise a majority of non-executives.
For the period between 30 April 2006 and 2 May 2006 Mr Hazell was the only non-executive director and since 12 December 2006 the Remuneration Committee has included the Chairman: this accords with the provisions of the revised Combined Code which was issued in June 2006 and applicable for reporting periods starting after 1 November 2006.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is headed by a Board of directors, comprising the Chairman, three executive directors and two non-executive directors, each determined by the Board to be independent.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately, and both officers have clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board including, but not limited to, ensuring that a fixed schedule of matters is exclusively retained for the Boards review and approval, and that a framework exists to allow the clear and timely dissemination of relevant information to all directors for such review to occur.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business and for implementing the Board strategies and policies.
The Senior Independent Director is Peter Hazell.
The Board of the Company is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies and for the stewardship of the Groups resources.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall management of the Group.
The Board considers its non-executive directors bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The non-executive directors have no financial or contractual interests in the Company, other than interests in ordinary shares as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would attend them if requested by major shareholders.
Following the Company joining the FTSE 250, it is recognised that in 2007 a third independent non-executive director should be appointed in accord with the provisions of the Combined Code.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board has established a procedure under which any director, wishing to do so in furtherance of his duties, may take independent advice at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance in respect of legal action against the directors.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 46 and 47.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year ended 31 December 2006 is shown in the table below: BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION POSSIBLE ACTUAL POSSIBLE ACTUAL POSSIBLE ACTUAL POSSIBLE ACTUAL D H Jones 11 11 112 2 G R Spindler 11 11 2 2 P F Hazell 11 11 44 662 2 J S Lloyd 6 5 C Mawe 11 11 G R Menzies 2 11 31 1 J I K Murray 33 11 3 31 1 M R Toms 76 3 33 3 1 1 The Property Committee was disbanded following the appointment of Jon Lloyd as Property Director on 3 July 2006.
COMMITTEES The Groups governance structure ensures that all decisions are made by the most appropriate people, in such a way that the decision-making process itself does not unnecessarily delay progress.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the 51 13397 14 03 2007 Proof 9 13397UKCOALFRT:UK COAL Quark Template 14 3 07 11:37 Page 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Nomination, Remuneration, and Audit committees, as described below.
Each committee has terms of reference that the whole Board has approved, which can be found on the Companys website.
Board and committee papers are circulated in advance of each meeting so that all directors are fully briefed.
Papers are supplemented by reports and presentations to ensure that Board members are supplied in a timely manner with the information they need.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments by making recommendations to the Board about filling Board vacancies and appointing additional persons to the Board.
The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to the Board on its composition, balance and membership and on the reappointment by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys articles of association.
The Committees members are the non-executive directors and the Chairman, together with the Chief Executive.
Although the Chairman is also Chairman of the Committee, he will not chair the Committee when it deals with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee uses external search consultants to advise on Board and senior management appointments.
The Board initially appoints all new directors, having first considered recommendations made to it by the Nomination Committee.
Following such appointment, the director is required to retire and seek reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
There is a process of rotation, which ensures that approximately one third of all directors is required to retire and seek reappointment at each Annual General Meeting and that all directors are required to be reappointed no less than every three years.
The Nomination Committee considers succession planning for appointments to the Board and to senior management positions so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience both on the Board and in the Group.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The composition and work of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS The Audit Committee comprises Peter Hazell Chairman and Mike Toms.
During the year Graham Menzies and James Murray were also members of the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Peter Hazell has recent and relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors are invited to attend meetings.
The minutes of meetings of the Committee are circulated to all directors.
The Committee meets at least four times a year to review the Companys accounting and financial reporting practices, the work of the internal and external auditors and compliance with policies, procedures and applicable legislation.
The Audit Committee also reviews the half-year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board and periodically reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
It also reviews whistle-blowing arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial or other improprieties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available to shareholders on request and are also available on the Companys website.
The Group Internal Audit Manager has a direct reporting line to the Committee.
The auditors throughout 2006 have been  LLP.
Fees to  LLP were: 2006 2005 000 000 Company audit fees 100 85 Other audit-related fees 308 372 Tax compliance and advice services 173 174 581 631 The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor independence is not compromised: The Audit Committee reviews the audit appointment periodically.
It is Group policy that the external auditors will not, as a general rule, provide consulting services.
The external auditors provide audit-related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax matters given their knowledge of 13397 14 03 2007 Proof 9 133 13397UKCOALFRT:UK COAL Quark Template 14 3 07 11:37 Page 53 the Groups businesses.
Such provision will, however, be assessed on a case by case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The Audit Committee monitors the application of the policy in this regard and keeps the policy under review.
The Audit Committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independent issues that may have arisen or may potentially arise in the future.
The auditors report to the directors and the Audit Committee confirming their independence in accordance with Auditing Standards.
OTHER MEETINGS In accordance with best practice, the Chairman has regular meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
A meeting of the non-executive directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman, takes place at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
DIRECTORS DEVELOPMENT All directors receive formal induction training on joining the Company and access to further training is made available.
The Company provides the necessary internal and external resources to enable directors to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board has conducted a self-evaluation of its performance and effectiveness and has both identified and addressed matters requiring attention.
It has been agreed that the Chairman has responsibility for the appraisal of the performance of the nonexecutive directors and the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive has responsibility to conduct a performance evaluation of the executive directors.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Executive Management Committee was established to manage and co-ordinate all strategic and key operational issues.
Its membership is as follows: Chief Executive Garold Spindler Finance Director Christopher Mawe Property Director Jon Lloyd Production Director Bill Tinsley Human Resources and Communications Director Norman Haslam Company Secretary Richard Cole RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company maintains ongoing dialogue with institutional shareholders through regular presentations and meetings to outline the Groups trading environment and objectives and also offers them the opportunity to meet non-executive directors.
The Senior Independent Director is available to all shareholders.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to question the Board.
INTERNAL CONTROL RISK ASSESSMENT There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of the Group, and this process has been in place throughout the year under review.
Following a review by the Board, on 28 February 2007, of an updated strategic risk assessment and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, it concluded that there were no significant risks that had not been considered, nor any significant weaknesses in internal controls identified.
The updated assessment supplements ongoing dialogue between the Board and the directors and managers responsible for monitoring risks at an operational level.
The Board receives regular reports from the Internal Audit and Health & Safety Management departments.
These reports identify areas of risk exposure, recommendations made and actions implemented.
They also highlight new areas of legislation that will impact on the risk profile of the Group, and provide positive assurance that procedures are working and assisting in the attainment of business objectives.
Operational and financial risk management is delegated to directors and managers who are responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
The following controls are embedded in the procedures of the relevant business units: OPERATIONAL detailed mining production and development plans are agreed on an annual basis and updated each month.
Quarterly Operational Review meetings are held with senior management to discuss performance against plan and to decide and implement any actions required.
There are Group-wide and local procedures to which compliance is monitored.
53 13397 14 03 2007 Proof 9 13397UKCOALFRT:UK COAL Quark Template 14 3 07 11:37 Page 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued HEALTH AND SAFETY full details of the health and safety policies and practices of the Group are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Full details of the environmental policies and practices of the Group are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
FINANCIAL these controls are considered under the following headings: COST BUDGETING The annual budget setting process includes a detailed review of each business unit and final budgets are approved by the Board.
Costs and performance are monitored on a monthly basis against budgets.
Monthly Operational Review meetings are held with senior management to discuss financial issues.
TREASURY The terms of reference for the Treasury department are approved and kept under review by the Board.
The Treasury department is responsible for placing deposits, for arranging borrowings and for making payments.
These transactions are subject to director or senior management authorisation.
INSURANCE RISK The Company holds insurance cover for all employer liability and public liability claims, which is issued by its captive insurance company, and which limits the Groups exposure to 500,000 per claim.
All claims are subject to expert assessment and challenge and, where appropriate, independent medical and legal opinion.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Board approval of all major capital projects is required.
Smaller capital projects are approved by the Investment Committee, which is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises the executive directors.
Senior executives are invited where appropriate.
The Investment Committee reviews projects with a cost in excess of 100,000.
ASSURANCE PROCEDURES Assurance is provided by the in-house team of Internal Auditors, Health and Safety Auditors and Environmental Auditors.
This resource is supplemented by the HM Inspectorate of Mines Health and Safety and other Health and Safety Commission personnel, legal advisers and professional claims handlers Insurance and Claims Management and external environmental consultants Environmental Management.
Reports are prepared and summarised at management level for reporting to the Board as either standing or intermittent agenda items.
The Audit Committee reviews internal audit reports and corporate governance matters.
The internal audit plan is based on the annual assessment of risks as reviewed by the Board and is not limited to financial systems.
Reports give an opinion of the risk and control profile of each audited system.
GOING CONCERN Following a thorough review of projections and cash flow forecasts, the directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements have, therefore, been prepared on the going concern basis.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Board encourages shareholders to exercise their right to vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The notice calling the meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate through a question and answer session and individual directors or, where appropriate, the Chairman of the relevant committee, respond to those questions directly.
Shareholders have the opportunity to talk informally to the directors before and after the formal proceedings.
