CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the year ended 31 December 2006 During the course of the year, the Company complied except as specifically set out below, with the principles of best practice set out in the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
appointed as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on employment with twelve months notice periods, Board of Directors 14 September 2006 when he stood down from whilst Non-Executive Directors are appointed by The Companys corporate governance procedures the position of Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the full Board for a term not exceeding three provide that the full Board of Directors shall meet Dr A Lee Group HR Director stood down from the years.
The letters of appointment relating to the at least six times a year.
During 2006, there were Board on 31 January 2007.
Non-Executive Directors are available for eight meetings of the full Board, all of which were inspection at the Companys registered office Each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than Mr attended by each of the Directors then appointed.
during normal business hours and for the N A Porter is considered by the Board to be 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual The Board receives regular reports from each of independent of management and free from any General Meeting.
the Groups business units, but itself retains full personal, business or other relationship with the and effective control of the Groups activities, with Group, save for the receipt of Directors fees and The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved interests in shares of the Company.
As Mr Porter a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations for decision by the full Board.
In particular, the full was previously Chief Executive Officer of the Committee.
The terms of reference for each such Board sets the strategic objectives, business plan Company, he is not considered to be independent.
committee which are published on the and annual budgets for the Group, with major Companys website are reviewed annually by the As a company which is a member of the FTSE investment decisions also requiring Board approval.
relevant committee, as is the effectiveness of 350, the Company, during the year, met the However, operational responsibility is delegated to each such committee.
Set out below are sections requirement of the Combined Code that at least the Groups Leadership Support Board, together describing the work of the committees in half of its Board, excluding the Chairman, is made with the managing directors of each of the Groups discharging their respective responsibilities.
up of independent non-executive directors.
business units and the departmental heads of the However, with the appointment of Mr N A Porter as main support functions within the Group.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 14 September Audit Committee Terms of reference have been set by the Board 2006 and the appointments on 25 January 2007 for its various committees and for the Chairman During the year, the Audit Committee comprised of Messrs A C Harris and J M Tonkiss, the and the Chief Executive Officer.
The terms of Messrs N P Hall, S R H Beevor and R Walker.
Company no longer meets that requirement.
reference for the Chairman and the Chief Mr Hall acted as Chairman of the Audit However, the Company believes that the quality of Executive are such as to clearly establish the Committee throughout the year.
Mr Hall is a its independent Non-Executive Directors is more division of responsibility between the two roles.
Chartered Accountant and was, until February important than their number and is satisfied with In addition, all Directors have access to the advice 2003, finance director of Arcadia Group plc the current composition of the Board.
and services of the Company Secretary, whilst formerly The Burton Group plc.
On 10 May 2006, Mr N P Hall was designated as procedures are in place allowing for individual Mr G K Maddrell being Chairman of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Directors to take independent legal advice.
A Company, stood down as a member of the Board.
Accordingly, the Company does now programme for the training of Directors has been Committee on 10 May 2006.
Accordingly, the comply with the relevant requirement of the put in place.
Company does now comply with the provision of Combined Code that such a director be so The current Board consists of three Executive the Combined Code that states that all members designated.
In previous years, the Company had Directors, namely Mr M C Allan Chief Executive of the Audit Committee should be independent not designated any of its Non-Executives as Officer : Mr A C Harris Chief Financial Officer : non-executive directors.
and Mr J M Tonkiss Managing Director of the During the year, the Audit Committee met on four Each of the Executive Directors has a written Groups UK Student Hospitality Business, as well occasions, all of which meetings were attended service contract, whilst each of the Non-Executive as Mr G K Maddrell Chairman and four Nonby each of its members, other than one meeting Directors has a formal letter of engagement.
Executive Directors Messrs N A Porter, N P Hall, which Mr R Walker was unable to attend.
Executive Directors have rolling contracts of S R H Beevor and R Walker.
Mr Porter was 28 The Audit Committee meets with the Chief Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Financial Officer and with the external auditors During the year, the Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr G K and reviews the annual accounts and the comprised Mr S R H Beevor who acted as Maddrell.
However, the exact composition of the preliminary and interim financial results Chairman, Mr G K Maddrell, Mr N P Hall and Committee is variable, provided that each meeting announcements prior to submission to the Board.
has a majority represented by independent NonThe Audit Committee also reviews compliance Executive Directors.
During the course of 2006, with accounting standards, the scope and extent Although the principles of best practice set out in five meetings of the Nominations Committee were of the external audit programme and the the Combined Code published in July 2003 state held, which were attended by Mr G K Maddrell, appointment, independence and remuneration of that all members of the Remuneration Committee Mr N P Hall and Mr S R H Beevor.
The chairman of the Audit should be independent non-executive directors, Committee reports to the Board on matters the updated version of the Code published in June The Committee is responsible for making discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee.
2006 states that the company chairman may recommendations to the Board on any also be a member of, but not chair the committee appointment or re-appointment to the Board and During the course of the year, the Audit if he or she was considered independent on at senior executive level.
It is also responsible for Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit appointment as chairman.
As Mr Maddrell, being ensuring that plans are in place for an orderly function within the Group.
The conclusion of that Chairman of the Company, was considered succession of appointments to the Board and at review was that, in view of the existing controls in independent on his appointment to that role, his senior management level, so as to maintain an place including a compliance audit regime in membership of the Remuneration Committee is in appropriate balance of skills and experience relation to the Groups Student Hospitality accordance with the amended provisions of the within the Company and on the Board.
businesses, and the size of the Group, a Group Code, albeit that those amended provisions only internal audit function was not required.
However, Following determination by the Board that a new apply to financial years beginning after the position is being kept under review.
Non-Executive Director should be appointed, the 1 November 2006.
As a result, the Company did Nominations Committee draws up a personal and The Audit Committee has established a formal not, technically, comply with the unamended professional profile of the ideal candidate it would policy with regard to the Companys appointment provisions of the Code in this respect during like to see appointed in order that a recruitment of the external audit firm for the supply of nonthe year.
and selection process can be undertaken.
In addition, the Audit Committee The Committee determines remuneration policy Committee then appoints an independent search reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and and advises the Board accordingly.
In particular, and selection agency to approach potential independence of the external auditor, including, in the Committee makes recommendations candidates who it identifies as meeting the particular, those potential threats identified by the regarding the terms of employment of executive specification supplied by the Nominations Auditing Practices Board in its independence directors and senior managers, including terms of Committee.
Initial interviews are conducted by the guidelines.
The Committee determines and then remuneration, the award of share options, long search agency, which then compiles a short list of reports to the Board, whether or not it is satisfied term incentive plan awards and other incentives.
appropriate candidates to be interviewed by the that the independence of the external auditor is Mr M C Allan and Mr N A Porter are invited to Nominations Committee.
A recommendation of a not jeopardised, taking into account the external attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee proposed candidate is then made following those auditors own submissions to the Committee but take no part in the discussions concerning second round interviews.
Following a and or the Board.
their own remuneration and fees and do not recommendation from the Committee for the During the course of the year, the non-audit attend those parts of the meetings of the appointment of a candidate to the Board, the services provided to the Group related mainly to Committee that consider those issues.
Chairman may be requested by the Board to tax advisory and compliance matters, and the The Directors' Remunertion Report is set out on approach the nominated candidate to agree terms establishment of the UNITE UK Student pages 32 to 36. for the appointment according to the criteria set Accommodation Fund.
out in the Groups remuneration policies.
During the course of 2006, four meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held, all of which were attended by each of the then current members of the Committee.
29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the year ended 31 December 2006 Consideration of the appointment of an internal Executive Directors agree their objectives with the Through reports from the Groups Leadership candidate to the position of Executive Director will Chief Executive, again as part of the PDP process.
Support Board, the Board has reviewed the follow a request from the Chief Executive to the Progress in achieving objectives is monitored at effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Nominations Committee that the appropriate least monthly through one to one meetings controls for the period covered by the annual report candidate be considered for nomination.
This will between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and accounts and up to the date of this document only follow a record of successful achievement in and between the Chief Executive and the other and is happy that such system accords with the the candidates current role and the gathering of Executive Directors.
Progress reviews are also latest guidance under the Combined Code.
data from an independent external assessment carried out at Board level through the review of The Company has an established framework of centre that the candidate will have been asked to key performance indicators.
internal controls which, amongst other things, attend.
At that centre, the proposed candidate is Formal performance measurement is undertaken includes the following: assessed in the areas of commercial and strategic through half-year reviews of progress made ability, leadership: technical ability: ability to build against milestones, key performance indicators peer relations: values and behaviours.
The results and other personal objectives.
The annual PDP Financial Reporting of those assessments are compared against a review of performance takes place shortly after The Group has a comprehensive budgeting global norm group of highly performing directors the year-end.
That review considers performance system with an annual business plan approved by and senior managers.
After gathering the against objectives, including key performance the Board.
Operating results and cash flows are assessment data, the Nominations Committee indicators, and the Groups values and reported on monthly and compared against interviews the proposed candidate, following behaviours.
The key performance indicators, budget.
Forecasts are reviewed throughout the which it may recommend his or her appointment which include financial performance and customer year and revised as necessary.
If the Board accepts the and employee satisfaction, also form the basis of reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
recommendation of the Committee, it will, through the bonus formulae as set out in the the Chairman and Chief Executive, invite the Remuneration Report.
proposed candidate to join the Board according to Investment Appraisal The performance of the Non-Executive Directors terms and conditions of service agreed by the is reviewed annually by the Chairman, whilst the The Company has clearly defined guidelines for Remuneration Committee.
That follows an external performance of the Chairman is considered capital expenditure.
These include annual benchmarking of remuneration for the role.
annually by the Non-Executive Directors in the budgets, detailed appraisal and review For the appointment of external candidates to the absence of the Chairman, in both cases taking procedures, levels of authority and due diligence role of Executive Director, the process outlined account of the views of the Executive Directors.
requirements where investment or development above in relation to Non-Executive Directors is The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors properties are being acquired.
Post-investment followed, with the addition that such external also on an annual basis meet to consider the appraisals are performed for major investments.
candidates are, as is the case with internal overall effectiveness of the Board and its candidates, required to attend an external Committees.
Those meetings are then followed by assessment centre prior to final interviews by full Board review meetings, which are attended Business Risk Assessment the Nominations Committee.
by all members of the Board.
The Group has developed a comprehensive risk The process for evaluating the performance of the management system whereby strategic threats to Executive Directors flows from the setting of the the business are identified and the management overall business strategy for the Group.
Once Internal Control and control of those threats prioritised.
As a result agreed by the Board, the Executive Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the of this system, the Board is satisfied with the high produce divisional strategies and milestone action Groups system of internal control.
However, level controls in place, although all areas of the plans designed to deliver the agreed overall such a system is designed to achieve business business are kept under review and new controls strategy.
Such strategies and plans, which are objectives and can only provide reasonable introduced as appropriate.
An analysis of the challenged and may be revised prior to being and not absolute assurance against material more important risks and uncertainties faced by ratified by the Board, then form the basis of mis-statement.
the Group is set out on page 17.
The Group's personal objectives that are set for each of the objectives and policies with regard the The provisions of the Combined Code in respect Executive Directors.
The personal objectives of the management of financial risks are set out in Note of internal controls require that directors review all Chief Executive are agreed between him and the 20 to the Financial Statements.
controls including operational, compliance and Chairman as part of the annual Performance risk management, as well as financial control.
The other 30 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Social Responsibility Statement of Directors and integrity of the corporate and financial responsibilities in respect of The Company has formal procedures for information included on the Companys website.
considering the significance to its business of the Directors Report and the Legislation in the UK governing the preparation social, environmental and ethical SEE matters, Financial Statements and dissemination of Financial Statements may which are considered as part of the Groups risk The Directors are responsible for preparing the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
management system referred to above in relation Directors Report and the Financial Statements in The Directors who held office at the date of to Business Risk Assessment.
The results of the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so benchmarking reviews which form part of that Company law requires the Directors to prepare far as they are each aware, there is no relevant system which are carried out by the Groups Group and parent company Financial Statements audit information of which the Companys auditors Leadership Support Board, are reported to and for each financial year.
Under that law they have are unaware: and each Director has taken all the considered by the full Board on a six monthly basis.
elected to prepare both the Group and the parent steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to Details of the SEE risks and opportunities that are company financial statements in accordance with make himself aware of any relevant audit considered most significant to the Group are set IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable laws.
information and to establish that the Companys out on pages 17 and 19 of the Business Review.
auditors are aware of that information.
The Group and parent company Financial In light of the above, the Board believes that it has Statements are required by law and IFRSs as in place appropriate procedures to identify and adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial assess the significant risks to the Companys position of the Group and the parent company and short and long-term value arising from SEE the performance for that period: the Companies matters, as well as opportunities to enhance value Act 1985 provides in relation to such Financial that may arise from an appropriate response.
In Statements that references in the relevant part of that respect, the Board considers that it receives that Act to financial statements giving a true and adequate information to make those assessments fair view are references to their achieving a fair and that the Company has in place effective presentation.
measures for managing significant risks.
Account is taken of SEE matters in relation to the training In preparing each of the Group and parent of Directors.
company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then Investor Relations apply them consistently: The Executive Directors have a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and make judgments and estimates that are analysts.
Feedback from such meetings regarding reasonable and prudent: shareholder opinion is provided to the Board as a state whether they have been prepared in whole.
In addition, the Senior Independent accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Director is available to meet with major and shareholders if requested.
The Companys Annual prepare the Financial Statements on the going General Meeting provides an opportunity, which concern basis unless it is inappropriate to the Board encourages, for private investors to presume that the Group and the parent communicate with the Company.
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Going Concern accounting records that disclose with reasonable After making enquiries, the Directors have a accuracy at any time the financial position of the reasonable expectation that the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that Company have adequate resources to continue in its Financial Statements comply with the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They have a general For this reason, they continue to adopt the going responsibility for taking such steps as are concern basis in preparing the accounts.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
