CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code published in July 2003, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the Company.
The Board has consequently decided to base this report on the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, including reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates The Combined Code.
The Board considers that this provides more relevant information to shareholders, whilst meeting the Boards obligations under The Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of The Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration andthe need for aninternal audit function.
For reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the pre-amble to The Combined Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
This report outlines how the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code were applied, unless otherwise stated, throughout the financial year.
The Directors are also aware that there are many other published guidelines relating to corporate governance and, whilst these receive due consideration, the Board does not consider it appropriate to address them individually in the Annual Report.
The Board is always available to discuss corporate governance issues with Shareholders.
THE BOARD It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are determined by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision of the Board has been adopted.
The Board of Directors comprises six non-executive Directors of which Mr Shaw acts as Chairman.
The Company has no executive Directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external rms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
Documented contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these rms, which clearly set out the areas where the Board has delegated authority to them.
The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor compliance with the   Company .
The Directors also review several key areas including the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy: the stockmarket environment: the revenue and balance sheet position: gearing: performance in relation to comparable investment trusts: share price discount both absolute levels and volatility and relevant industry issues.
The Board also receives regular reports from the Managers analysing and commenting on the composition of the Companys share register and monitors significant changes to shareholders.
The Board also holds an annual strategy session to consider, amongst other matters, the Companys objective and investment focus and style.
28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The following table sets out the number of Directors meetings including Committee meetings held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
During the financial year, four Board meetings and three Audit and Management Engagement Committee meetings were held.
Audit and Management Board of Directors Engagement Committee Director Held Attended Held Attended D R Shaw, Chairman 43 H N Buchan 4 4 3 3 1 M L A Chiappelli 44 3 3 J E G Cran 4 4 3 3 Prof P R Marsh 4 4 Prof W S Nimmo 4 4 1 Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
The Board, being comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors, has not appointed a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board has also decided not to nominate a Deputy Chairman or a senior independent director although Mr. Chiappelli, as chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee, fulls this role when necessary, for example, taking the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board conducts an annual review of its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company, and the Boards structure, including the balance of expertise and skills brought by individual Directors and their length of service, where continuity and experience can add signicantly to the strength of the Board.
If it is deemed appropriate to make new appointments, any gaps in skills or expertise are taken into account in the search process.
Potential directors are then invited to meet the members of the Board prior to a decision on their appointment being made by the Board as a whole.
To date, the Board has not found it necessary to appoint external search consultants nor use open advertising.
The Board carefully considers the various guidelines for determining the independence of nonexecutive Directors, placing particular weight on the view that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
An individual can therefore be considered to be independent even though their length of service exceeds nine years.
No limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, including the Chairman, has therefore been imposed.
All Directors are considered to be independent notwithstanding that Mr Shaw has sat on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board hasdecided to gobeyondthe  theArticlesof Association and the AIC Code by having all Directors retire at each AGM and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
The Board undertakes a formal annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Managers.
The Directors also evaluate collectively the performance of each Director by way of an evaluation questionnaire.
The Board then considers the results of this exercise, together with other relevant discussion areas.
The appraisal of the Chairman is led by Mr. Chiappelli as Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
The Board believes that each Director continues to be effective, bringing a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Board and recommends the re-election of each director to Shareholders.
In line with the Boards policy, each Director retires at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 1 March 2007.
Messrs Shaw, Buchan, Chiappelli, Cran, Prof Marsh and Prof Nimmo, whose biographical details are shown on page 6, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training when required.
Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
The Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company was formed to, and continues to, invest in a portfolio of small UK quoted companies.
The Board believes that regular contact with shareholders is essential.
The Managers endeavour to meet all of the larger shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
Directors of the Company are always available for discussion with any shareholder.
In addition, the Managers also publish the Net Asset Value on a weekly basis and a monthly factsheet.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on page 6 or through the Chairmans email address which is david.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
Proxy voting gures are announced at the AGM and are available via the Managers website shortly thereafter.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
As mentioned above, the Managers meet major shareholders regularly to update them and in addition Company performance and other relevant information is available on the Managers website at www.
The Company applies the revised guidance published in October 2005 by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in respect of The Combined Codes sections on Internal Control commonly known as the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, that proper accounting records are maintained and that financial information of the Company is reliable.
The Directors have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
At least once a year the Directors formally review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This process principally comprises the Audit Committee receiving and examining reports from the rms to which services are subcontracted, detailing the internal control objectives and procedures adopted by each rm.
Each report has been reviewed by the respective rms auditors.
The Audit Committee then submits a detailed report on its findings to the Board.
The Directors have not identied any significant problems in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Directors have appointed an Audit and Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Mr Chiappelli, who is a Chartered Accountant.
There is a range of recent and relevant financial experience amongst the members of the Committee.
This Committee, of which Messrs Buchan and Cran are also members, specically considers the accounting policies of, and financial reporting by the Company, the Companys key risks, the internal control principles adopted and the relationship with the Companys auditors including making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal and remuneration of the auditors.
In addition, it reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT particular regard to non-audit fees.
Suchfees amounted to 1,000andrelated to the provision of taxation services.
The Committee considers that these services are not a threat to objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Furthermore, non-audit work requires the prior approval of the Committee.
This Committee also formally reviews the terms of the agreements with the Managers and the Secretaries annually, including the level of service, the basis of fees payable and the length of the notice period.
Details are set out in the Directors Report.
The Committee also considers annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function.
However, as the Company has no employees and subcontracts all its business to third parties, it believes that an internal audit function is not necessary.
The Committee operates within terms of reference which have been agreed with the Board.
The Committees findings and recommendations are submitted to the Board for consideration.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on request.
SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL ISSUES AND VOTING POLICY The Company is normally a shareholder in over 80 small UK quoted companies.
Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is carried out by its Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP.
The Managers have a consistent and well-dened investment process based on fundamental analysis of the constituents of their investment universe.
The Managers primary objective is to deliver investment returns greater than the return on the Companys benchmark index, the HGSC XIC, over the longer term.
The Directors, through the Companys Managers, also encourage investee companies to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
The Board and the Managers support the Statement of Principles of the Institutional Shareholders Committee which set out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Effective management of risks and opportunities posed by social, environmental and ethical SEE issues is an important component of good corporate governance.
Companies that ignore significant corporate responsibilities risk serious damage to their reputation, brand and shareholder value, as well as litigation and operational risks.
The Managers believe that sound SEE policies make good business sense and take these issues into account when investment decisions are taken.
However, the Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on grounds of SEE concerns.
Instead, the Managers adopt a positive approach whereby such matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
The Board has also given discretionary voting powers to the Managers.
Aberforth Partners LLP exercises these voting rights on every resolution which is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company is invested.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with directors of the company concerned.
The Board receives from the Managers quarterly reports on governance issues including voting arising from investee companies and reviews, from time to time, the Managers voting guidelines and its stance towards SRI and SEE matters.
