2 8 C O R P O R At e G O v e R N A N C e Corporate governance The Senior Independent Director is always The Combined Code on available to meet with individual shareholders Corporate Governance on request to ensure the Board is aware of any This report explains key features of the Groups shareholder concerns that cannot be resolved governance structure, how it applies the through the routine mechanisms for investor principles in the revised Combined Code on communications.
Corporate Governance the Code, and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Admiral Group Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters In September 2006 the Group announced specifically reserved to it for decision, including the appointment of two new independent corporate strategy, approval of budgets and Non-executive Directors.
This brings the total financial results, new Board appointments, number of independent Directors to five and proposals for dividend payments and the makes the Board fully compliant with Code approval of all major transactions.
The appointments were made on 4 schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and September 2006.
Throughout 2006 up to this was last reviewed on 5 March 2007. date the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees did not comply with the The Board met on nine occasions in 2006.
In Combined Code requirements with respect addition the Board held a strategy day and to their membership Codes A.
4.1 also visited its operations in Spain.
2.1. and papers are circulated to the Board in a timely manner in preparation for Board The Group has now put in place specified and Committee meetings.
These papers are terms for its independent Non-executive supplemented by information specifically Directors.
Details are contained within the requested by the Directors from time to time.
All Non-executive All Directors are, therefore, able to bring Directors are appointed for fixed terms of independent judgement to bear on issues three years.
such as strategy, performance, and resources.
Additional meetings are called when required Code D. 1.1 requires that the Senior Independent and there is frequent contact between Director should attend meetings with a meetings, where necessary, to progress the range of shareholders.
The Company has a Companys business.
comprehensive programme of meetings and dialogue with institutional investors.
The During the year the Board carried out an views of investors expressed through this evaluation of itself and its Committees.
In dialogue are communicated to the Board 2005 the evaluation consisted of detailed as a whole through the investor relations questionnaires completed by all Directors.
All Directors can, therefore, develop The Board has decided that given the results an understanding of any issues or concerns of the process carried out in 2005, the 2006 of major shareholders should any be raised.
evaluation would consist of one-to-one Feedback from shareholders suggests that discussions between the Chairman and all these arrangements for communication Directors and a meeting between the Chairman between the Company and its shareholders and the Non-executive Directors without the continue to be satisfactory and effective.
A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 2 9 The results of the evaluation were discussed A meeting was held in November 2006 under at a Board meeting in November 2006 at the Chairmanship of John Sussens to discuss which the Chairman presented his findings the results of this review.
John Sussens also and the Board had an open discussion on the gave individual feedback to the Chairman and performance of the Board resulting in a number was able to confirm that the performance of of recommendations.
No major issues were the Chairman continues to be effective, and identified during the process but some changes that the Chairman continues to demonstrate have been made to the structure of the Board commitment to his role.
meetings and the amount of time devoted to meeting senior managers within the Group.
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director The performance of the individual Executive during 2006 is provided in the table below.
Directors is appraised annually by the Chief The figures in brackets show the number Executive, to whom they report.
The Chairman, of meetings that the Director could have taking into account the views of the other attended.
Directors conducts the performance appraisal of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director John Sussens, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Scheduled Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 9 4 3 4 Alastair Lyons Chairman 9 9 3 3 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive 9 9 David Stevens Chief operating Officer 9 9 Kevin Chidwick Finance Director 3 3 Andrew Probert 6 7 Manfred Aldag 9 9 3 3 Martin Jackson 9 9 4 4 4 4 Keith James 9 9 4 4 3 3 Margaret Johnson 3 3 1 1 1 1 Lucy Kellaway 3 3 1 1 John Sussens 8 9 4 4 Gillian Wilmot 3 4 1 1 2 2 Gillian Wilmot and Andrew Probert resigned from the Board on 18 May 2006 and 4 September 2006 respectively.
Kevin Chidwick, Margaret Johnson and Lucy Kellaway were appointed to the Board on 4 September 2006.
Corporate governance 28 - 34 0 C O R P O R At e G O v e R N A N C e John Sussens has been appointed as the Senior The roles of the Chairman and Independent Non-executive Director.
He is Chief Executive available to shareholders if they have concerns The Board has approved a statement of which contact through the normal channels of the division of responsibilities between Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The has failed to resolve or for which such contact Chairman is primarily responsible for the is inappropriate.
workings of the Board and is not involved in the day-to-day aspects of the business.
Save In accordance with the Companys Articles, for matters reserved for decision by the Board, which provide that a set number of Directors the Chief Executive, with the support of the retire by rotation and stand for re-election at other Executive Directors, is responsible for each AGM, Martin Jackson, and Keith James the running of the business, carrying out the will retire by rotation and seek re-election agreed strategy adopted by the Board and by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In implementing specific Board decisions relating addition Kevin Chidwick, Lucy Kellaway and to the operation of the Group.
Margaret Johnson will also stand for re-election due to their appointments occurring after the Directors and Directors last AGM.
independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, The Directors are given access to independent five independent Non-executive Directors, one professional advice at the Groups expense, Non-executive Director who is employed by should they deem it necessary, to carry out a significant shareholder and is not, therefore, their responsibilities.
independent, and three Executive Directors.
Independent Non-executive Directors are Professional development currently appointed for fixed periods of three On appointment, Directors take part in years, subject to election by shareholders.
The a comprehensive induction programme initial three-year period may be extended for where they receive financial and operational one further three-year period and the Board information about the Group, details may invite the Non-executive Director to concerning their responsibilities and duties, serve for a further three-year period, subject as well as an introduction to the Groups to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters governance and control environment.
of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office or can be obtained The induction is supplemented by visits to the on request from the Company Secretary.
Groups head office in Cardiff and meetings with members of the senior management The independent Non-executive Directors team and their departments.
Throughout their are of sufficient calibre and number that their period in office the Directors are continually views carry significant weight in the Boards updated on the Groups business, legal decision making.
matters concerning their role and duties, the competitive environments in which the Group Details of the Chairmans other commitments operates and any other significant changes are included in the Chairmans biography.
The affecting the Group and the industry in which Chairman does perform a number of other it operates.
Non-executive roles outside of the Group but the Board is satisfied that these are not such The Board receives presentations from as to interfere with the performance of the senior managers from within the Group on a Chairmans duties within the Group.
regular basis as a component of the ongoing development of the Non-executive Directors.
A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 1 Relations with shareholders The Audit Committee The Investor Relations team has day-toConstitution and membership day primary responsibility for managing The membership at the year-end was Martin communications with institutional shareholders Jackson Chairman, Keith James, and Margaret through a combination of briefings to analysts Johnson appointed 4 September 2006.
The and institutional shareholders, both at the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the half-year and full-year results.
For the period between 18 May individual discussions with the Executive 2006 and 4 September 2006 the Committee Directors are also arranged throughout the year comprised of Martin Jackson and Keith James.
Regular dialogue Two meetings were held between those dates.
with shareholders helps to ensure that the There have been a total of four meetings during Companys strategy is understood and that any 2006. issues are addressed in a constructive way.
The Board considers that the members of the In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations Committee have the appropriate competence under the new Combined Code, the Chairman and experience to carry out their duties would give feedback to the Board on issues and further considers that Martin Jackson raised with him by major shareholders, Committee Chairman has the appropriate although to date there have been no such recent and relevant financial experience having issues.
This is supplemented by monthly held the position of Group Finance Director of feedback to the Board on meetings between Friends Provident Plc between 2001 and 2003 management and investors.
External analyst and being a fellow of the Institute of Chartered reports are circulated to all the Directors.
In Accountants, which imposes requirements for December 2006 major investors were given Continuing Professional Development.
Ongoing the opportunity to meet with the Chairman training is provided to all members, and this and a number of Non-executive Directors.
A is intended to cover relevant developments number of investors took part in the meeting.
in financial reporting, company law and the It is intended to carry out a similar meeting in various regulatory frameworks.
Reference of the Audit Committee include all matters suggested by the Code.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the Summary of key activities during 2006 Companys Annual General Meeting along with During the year the Committee reviewed the other Directors, and are available to answer interim and audited final year-end Report shareholders questions on the activities of the and Accounts prior to approval by the Board.
The external auditors were present at both meetings and the external actuaries attended The Group maintains a corporate website the meeting in February 2007 at which the www.
co. uk containing a wide 2006 Report and Accounts were reviewed.
range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Committee also reviewed the performance and independence of the Groups relationship Board Committees with the external auditor both through its The terms of reference of the principal own assessment of the relationship and also Committees of the Board - Audit, the controls in place within the external Remuneration and Nominations - are available auditors business.
The Committee has reviewed on the corporate website.
Those terms of the nature and extent of non-audit work reference are reviewed annually.
services provided by the external auditor.
The Committee has in place a policy that, amongst other things, requires that the Committee Corporate governance 28 - 34 2 C O R P O R At e G O v e R N A N C e approve all proposals for expenditure of over 2006 and resignation from the Committee of 30,000 on non-audit services.
The policy Manfred Aldag, the Committee as required by was last reviewed on 5 December 2006.
The the Code contains a majority of independent Groups auditors, KPMG Audit plc, provide Non-executive Directors.
some non-audit services, the majority of which comprise compliance services on the various The Committee leads the process for making taxation issues within the Group, and are not appointments to the Board or where the considered by the Committee to compromise appointee is likely to become a Board their independence as auditors.
The Committee ensures there is a non-audit fees is reviewed at each Committee formal, rigorous and transparent procedure meeting and details are included in note 10 to for the appointment of new Directors to the the Report and Accounts.
Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of Directors.
The The Head of Internal Audit is invited to all Committee also ensures plans are in place for Committee meetings and provides a range of orderly succession for appointments to the presentations and papers to the Committee, Board, and reviews the plans for other senior through which the Committee monitors the management positions.
Responsibility for effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
making senior management appointments rests Committee members receive copies of all with the Chief Executive.
internal audit reports and are given the opportunity to raise questions on the content During 2006, the Committee instructed and recommendations contained within the external search consultants to provide support reports.
The Committee approves the internal in relation to the appointment of two Nonaudit programme at the start of each calendar executive Directors.
Detailed role specifications year and monitors the progress made in were drawn up with reference to the mix achieving the plan.
of skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors and the requirements of The Committee receives reports from the Board.
Interviews were carried out with a the Groups Company Secretary who has range of potential candidates, by the external responsibility for the Compliance and Risk agency, members of the Committee, and other management functions to enable it to monitor members of the Board.
As a result of the the risk management policies and systems.
process, the Committee recommended to the Board, and the Board agreed, that Margaret The Executive Directors, Head of Internal Audit, Johnson and Lucy Kellaway be appointed to and external auditors are invited to all meetings the Board as Non-executive Directors with The Non-executive Directors are entitled to effect from 4 September 2006.
The anticipated attend any meeting.
At least once a year the time commitments for the role were discussed Committee meets with the external auditor and agreed with both candidates.
without any Executive Directors present.
The Committee also reviewed the progress of the Deputy Finance Director, recruited in The Nominations Committee September 2005 and following the retirement The membership at the year-end was Keith of Andrew Probert on 4 September 2006 James Chairman, Lucy Kellaway and Alastair recommended that the Board appoint Kevin Lyons.
The Company Secretary acts as Chidwick as Finance Director.
The Committee reviewed the current Board The Committee has formal terms of reference, size, taking into account the changes noted which were last reviewed on 19 October 2006. above, structure and composition and The Committee met on three occasions during confirmed that no further changes were 2006.
From 19 October 2006, following the required and that the leadership of the appointment of Lucy Kellaway on 4 September A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c organisation was such that the Company and managing the Groups internal controls, could continue to compete effectively in the that it has been in place for the year ended 31 marketplace in which it operates.
December 2006 and that, up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, it Remuneration Committee is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords The membership at the year-end was John with the internal control guidance for Directors Sussens Chairman, Martin Jackson and provided in the Code.
The Company Secretary acts as A key element of the control system is that Secretary to the Committee.
the Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision The Committee has formal terms of and has put in place an organisational structure reference, which were last reviewed on 4 with clearly defined lines of responsibility.
The Committee met four In order to ensure these responsibilities are times during 2006. properly discharged, the Board has delegated the task of supervising risk management and During the year the Committee carried out the internal control to the Risk Management following tasks: Committee RMC.
reviewed the Groups overall remuneration policy and strategy There are several key elements to the risk management environment throughout recommended for approval individual the Group.
These include the setting of remuneration packages for Executive risk management policy at Board level, Directors, Chairman, and Company enforcement of that policy by the Chief Secretary Executive, delivery of the policy by the RMC via the Groups systems of internal control and reviewed the rules and performance risk management and the overall assurance measures of the Group share schemes and provided by the Audit Committee that the the grant, award, allocation or issue of systems operate effectively.
shares under such schemes The Board recognises that the day-to-day The Committee did not use the services of any responsibility for implementing these policies external consultants during the year but did must lie with the management team, whose receive reports produced by various external operational decisions must take into account agencies to enable it to make judgments on the risk and how this can be effectively controlled.
levels of remuneration for the Directors and to The Company Secretary and Risk Officer take review the remuneration of the Group's senior responsibility for ensuring management are executives.
aware of their risk management obligations, providing them with support and advice and ensuring that the risk management strategy Internal control and is properly communicated.
The head of each risk management business unit or business area is required to The Board is responsible for the Groups undertake a full assessment process to identify system of internal control and for reviewing and quantify the risks that their areas face or its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to pose to the Group and the adequacy of the manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure controls in place to mitigate or reduce those to achieve business objectives and can only risks.
Reports are produced showing the most provide reasonable and not absolute assurance significant risks identified and the controls in against material misstatement or loss.
Internal Audit uses the risk registers to plan its programme of audits to ensure that the The Board is of the view that there is an controls described are actually in place.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Corporate governance 28 - 34 4 C O R P O R At e G O v e R N A N C e The RMC receives reports setting out key One of the Committees principal performance and risk indicators and considers responsibilities is to ensure that the risk possible control issues brought to their management policy approved by the Board attention by early warning mechanisms, which is implemented throughout the Group.
The are embedded within the operational units.
The Committee has formal terms of reference RMC and the Audit Committee also receive and is required to manage regulatory issues, regular reports from Internal Audit, which assess and monitor reinsurance protection include recommendations for improvement and to ensure that a risk management strategy in the control and operational environment.
is effectively employed by the Group.
The The Audit Committees role in this area is Committee meets approximately eight times primarily confined to a high-level review of the a year and each Committee member receives arrangements for internal control although at an agenda and papers in a timely manner its discretion the Committee may well request allowing the Committee to make informed more detailed information on specific issues decisions and actions.
The Boards agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and The Committee develops policies to ensure control and receives reports thereon from the compliance with regulation and ensures that RMC and the Audit Committee.
The emphasis appropriate action is taken by the management is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance team to implement compliant systems and and not merely reporting by exception.
March 2007 meeting, the Board carried out the annual assessment for the 2006 year by Internal Audit considering documentation from the Audit The Internal Audit function assists management Committee, taking account of events since 31 by providing it with timely, independent December 2006. assurance that the controls established are operating effectively.
This includes regular The Audit Committees ability to provide the reviews of internal control systems and appropriate assurance to the Board depends business processes, including compliance on the provision of periodic and independent systems and procedures and identification of confirmation, primarily by Internal Audit, that control weakness and recommendations to the controls established by management are management on improvements.
The Audit Committee reviews the wider aspects of internal control Going concern and risk management, providing a high The Directors are satisfied that the Group has level challenge to the steps being taken to adequate resources to continue in operation implement the risk management strategy.
for the foreseeable future and therefore consider it appropriate to prepare the financial The Board confirms that there were no statements on the going concern basis.
significant issues arising during the year under review.
The Risk Management Committee The Committees members include the three Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary who chairs the meetings, the Deputy Compliance Officer the Risk Officer and senior management representatives.
