CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Governance framework 45 The Board of Directors of BG Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, which it Governance framework believes are critical to business integrity and performance, and to maintaining investor confidence.
Effective governance is at the The Governance framework complements core of BG Groups ability to the beliefs and behaviours as set out in the BG Group Business Principles, details operate successfully in the global of which can be found on page 37.
The Companys shares are listed on business environment.
both the London and New York stock exchanges.
This report explains how the Governance framework is structured and implemented across the Group in support of the statements by the Board of Directors that the Company complies with applicable UK and US corporate governance requirements.
STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE UK Combined Code As a UK listed company, BG Group is Overview required to state whether it has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 BG Group has an established Governance framework that is overseen by of the UK Financial Reporting Councils the Board of Directors, which is responsible to BG Group shareholders.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance The framework is made up of three elements: the Combined Code throughout 2006 Organisation and Structure: and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Internal Control Framework: and BG Group is also required to explain Independent Assurance processes.
how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code relating to Directors, their remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations with shareholders.
The Directors consider that, without exception, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the BG Group Governance framework year ended 31 December 2006.
The Financial Reporting Council published revisions to the Combined Code in June 2006 that come into effect during 2007.
The Board has applied the principles of the revised Combined Code in advance BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS of its effective date.
NYSE Corporate Governance Rules The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Company is, therefore, subject to the rules of the NYSE as well BOARD OF DIRECTORS as US securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as those rules and laws apply to non-US companies.
The NYSE requires US companies listed on the exchange to INTERNAL ORGANISATION INDEPENDENT comply with its corporate governance CONTROL AND STRUCTURE ASSURANCE rules, but non-US companies, such as FRAMEWORK BG Group, are exempt from most of these rules.
However, BG Group is required to disclose a summary of any significant ways in which the corporate governance practices it follows differ from those required by the NYSE for US companies.
Corporate governance 46 Governance framework continued The Directors consider that there are no Section 302: Evaluation of disclosure Matters reserved to the Board significant differences in the corporate controls and procedures Disclosure controls and procedures are governance practices followed by 1 Approval of the Group vision, values BG Group compared with those required designed to ensure that information and overall Governance framework.
required to be disclosed is accumulated by the NYSE for US companies, except 2 Approval of the Companys and communicated to management, that, as permitted by the Combined Code, Annual Report and Accounts, including the Chief Executive and Chief the Nominations Committee comprises Remuneration report and Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions a majority of independent non-executive Quarterly Financial Statements.
regarding the disclosure of information Directors, whereas the equivalent NYSE externally.
These controls and procedures requirement is that the Nominations 3 Approval of any interim dividend are in relation to the Annual Report and and recommendation of the Committee should be comprised solely Accounts, quarterly financial releases, final dividend.
press releases and external presentations, 4 Approval of Group financial policy.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 annual investor presentations and the Section 404: Managements Annual 5 Approval of material capital projects, Corporate Responsibility Report.
Report on Internal Control over investments, acquisitions and For 2006, a review of these controls Financial Reporting disposals by any Group company.
and procedures has been undertaken The financial year ended 31 December 2006 6 Approval of the Companys long-term by a Disclosure Committee, which met is the first year for which BG Groups finance plan and annual capital and with each of the control owners to review management is required to provide a revenue budget.
their design and to obtain assurance report on the Groups internal control over on their effectiveness.
7 Approval of any significant change financial reporting pursuant to section 404 in Group accounting policies of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
The outcome of the review by the or practices.
Disclosure Committee was reported to In accordance with that section, the 8 Approval of all circulars, listing the Chief Executive and Chief Financial following report is provided by the particulars, resolutions and Officer who, based upon the review, have management of the Group in respect corresponding documentation concluded that, as at 31 December 2006, of the Groups internal control over sent to shareholders.
the Groups disclosure controls and financial reporting as defined in procedures were effective.
9 Approval of changes in the capital Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the structure of the Company or its status GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : as a plc and, in particular, the issue The remainder of this report provides The management of the Group is or allotment of shares in the Company further information about BG Groups responsible for establishing and otherwise than pursuant to Governance framework in support of the Company-approved employee maintaining an adequate system of compliance statements made above, share schemes.
internal control over financial reporting including how BG Group has applied the for the Group and has used the Committee 10 Approval of material changes to relevant principles set out in Section 1 of of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway the Companys pension schemes the Combined Code.
Commission COSO framework, which is rules, any change of Trustee, or There are three elements of BG Groups referred to on page 50, to evaluate the material changes to funding and Governance framework: organisation and effectiveness of that system.
structure: internal control framework: 11 Appointment, re-appointment Based on this evaluation, the management and independent assurance.
These are and removal of the Chairman and of the Group has assessed the effectiveness described below.
Directors and the recommendation of this system and has concluded that it to shareholders of their election or 1.
Organisation and structure was effective as of 31 December 2006. re-election under the Articles of The Groups organisation and structure As part of their audit of the consolidated Association: the appointment and is established and overseen by the Board removal of the Company Secretary.
financial statements of the Group for and is designed to allow for effective and the year ended 31 December 2006, efficient decision-making.
12 Approval of the division of  LLP has reported responsibilities between the This section sets out details of the on this assessment of the effectiveness of Chairman and Chief Executive.
organisation and structure and the the Groups internal control over financial procedures that ensure it is robust and 13 Establishing committees of the reporting under Auditing Standard No.
2 effective in meeting applicable corporate Board, approving their terms of of the Public Company Accounting reference including membership governance requirements.
A copy of their and financial authority, reviewing attestation report is included in the Form their activities and, where appropriate, 20-F filed with the SEC which may be ratifying their decisions.
viewed on the website maintained by the 14 Recommendation to shareholders SEC at www.
gov or BG Groups own for the appointment, re-appointment website at www.
com or removal of the Auditors.
Changes in internal controls over 15 Approval of this schedule of Matters financial reporting reserved to the Board.
There were no changes in the Groups internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during 2006 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, these controls.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 BG Group Board and committee structure BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE AUDIT CHAIRMANS FINANCE NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RESERVES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Portfolio Development Investment Committee Committee Group Performance Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee Committee Exploration & Appraisal HSSE Committee Committee People & Organisation Governance & Risk Committee Committee A diagram of the BG Group Board and A statement of the Directors integrity of financial information and committee structure is set out above.
responsibilities for preparing the internal control and risk management.
Financial Statements, including a The membership of each of the principal Paul Collins, a non-executive Director statement regarding the status of the Board committees is shown on page 48. since October 2000, is the Senior Company as a going concern, is set out Independent Director SID nominated by The Board has delegated authority to its in the Directors report on page 56. the Board, and is available to shareholders committees on specific matters, which Board composition as an alternative point of contact to the are set out in written terms of reference.
The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief The terms of reference of the Audit, Chairman, the Chief Executive, Deputy Financial Officer.
The role of the SID is Remuneration and Nominations Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and clearly established, set out in writing committees are reviewed annually by seven independent non-executive Directors.
and has been agreed by the Board.
This the Board and published on BG Groups A list of the individual Directors, their description of the role is published on website together with the terms of biographies and details of their committee BG Groups website.
The SID is expected reference for the Corporate Responsibility, membership is provided on page 53. to commit at least three to four days per Chairmans and Group Executive year to the role, and significantly more The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive committees.
Copies are also available in exceptional circumstances.
This is are separate and their responsibilities are upon request.
Minutes of committee in addition to the expected time clearly established, set out in writing and meetings are circulated to all Directors.
commitment in his capacity as a agreed by the Board.
This description of non-executive Director.
Board of Directors the roles and responsibilities of the The Board is responsible to BG Groups Chairman and Chief Executive is also All Directors are subject to election shareholders for creating and delivering available on BG Groups website.
by shareholders at the first Annual sustainable shareholder value through General Meeting AGM following their The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, is the management of the Groups appointment by the Board.
Thereafter, responsible for the workings and businesses within the Governance in accordance with the Combined Code leadership of the Board and for the balance and the Companys Articles of Association, framework.
The Boards role is to of its membership.
The Chief Executive, they are normally subject to re-election set the Groups strategy and to ensure Frank Chapman, is responsible for leading every three years.
Based on these criteria, that appropriate levels of financial and managing the business within the the Nominations Committee has made and human resources are made available authorities delegated by the Board.
recommendations to the Board in respect to deliver it.
The non-executive Directors provide of the election or re-election of six As well as oversight responsibility for experience and skills from a number Directors at the 2007 AGM.
In making financial performance, internal controls of industry and government backgrounds.
these recommendations, the Board and risk management of the Group, the They are key to the formulation and considers that the performance of Board has a formal schedule of matters development of the Groups strategy these Directors is effective and that specifically reserved to it for decision.
and also review and monitor the they have demonstrated commitment These matters are set out opposite.
performance of management, the to the role.
Corporate governance 48 Governance framework continued BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS annually evaluates the design and assurance that BG Group would be able to effectiveness of the processes established to conduct its business in accordance with the Audit Committee estimate, aggregate and report the Groups Business Principles in new areas of activity: various categories of oil and gas reserves.
a review of CR issues in Algeria, Egypt, Nigeria The members of the Committee are Lord Sharman Chairman, Peter Backhouse, Paul and Madagascar, to understand the risks and During the year the principal activities of the gain assurance that the Company could Collins and Baroness Hogg.
Philippe Varin Committee included reviews of the following: joined the Committee on 17 July 2006.
The manage these effectively: quarterly, interim and full year financial a review of community relations: Secretary to the Committee is Ben Mathews.
results: All members of the Committee are deemed consideration of an independent report on the year end oil and gas reserves sustainable development: to be independent and the Committee has booking process: concluded that its membership meets the a review of the Group strategy for managing the delivery of the 2006 internal audit plan greenhouse gas emissions: and requirements of the Combined Code, the and approval of the 2007 plan: Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, and SEC and NYSE receiving regular reports on HSSE.
quarterly and full year internal control and regulations.
The Board has determined that assurance reports from Group Audit: Nominations Committee Lord Sharman, a chartered accountant, is the the effectiveness of the internal audit The members of the Committee are Sir Audit Committee financial expert for the function: Robert Wilson Chairman, Paul Collins and purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. the 2006 external audit plan and associated Baroness Hogg.
The Secretary to the In addition, the Board considers that he has Committee is Ben Mathews.
The role of the audit fees: recent and relevant financial experience as the budget and framework for the supply of Committee is to review the structure and required by the Combined Code.
composition of the Board, to identify non-audit services by the external Auditors, the independence and objectivity of the candidates to fill Board vacancies, including During the year, the Committee met on six their election and subsequent re-election by occasions.
The meetings of the Committee external Auditors and the effectiveness of shareholders, and to review its own the external audit process: are normally attended by the Chairman, the performance on an annual basis.
Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial a review of the control environment within BG Egypt: Controller, the Head of Group Audit and The Committee met on three occasions representatives of the external Auditors.
In the Groups Internal Control Framework, during the year.
Meetings are normally including the risk management process: addition, the Committee meets privately with attended by the Chief Executive.
the external Auditors at least twice each year.
reports in relation to matters raised through During the year the Committee: whistleblowing and fraud processes: The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge updates on the processes to achieve its responsibilities in respect of: and experience on the Board: compliance with Section 404 of the overseeing the Groups financial reporting identified, using external boardroom search Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: process, including the internal control consultants, potential new non-executive relevant disclosures in this Report: and structure and procedures for financial Director candidates: its Terms of Reference.
reporting and monitoring the integrity reviewed the re-appointment of the Remuneration Committee and appropriateness of the Groups Chairman chaired by the SID : financial statements: The members of the Committee are Baroness following a review of candidates, Hogg Chairman, Paul Collins and Jrgen the manner in which the Groups recommended to the Board the appointment management ensures and monitors the Dormann.
Philippe Varin and Sir Robert of Philippe Varin as an independent nonWilson became members of the Committee adequacy of financial, operational and executive Director of the Company: compliance internal controls and risk on 13 December 2006 and 6 February 2007 recommended to the Board the Directors respectively.
Peter Backhouse and Sir John management processes designed to standing for election and re-election at this manage significant risk exposures: Coles retired as members of the Committee years AGM: and on 14 December 2006.
The Secretary to the the appointment, compensation, reviewed its Terms of Reference.
independence and performance of Committee is Ben Mathews.
The Committee Finance Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and the Groups external Auditors: and The members of the Committee are Sir the independence and performance recommending to the Board for approval Robert Wilson Chairman, Frank Chapman, BG Groups overall remuneration policy and of Group Audit.
William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza.
Full details are set out in the Specifically, the Audit Committee: Secretary to the Committee is Ben Mathews.
Remuneration report on pages 59 to 69. regularly reviews the external and internal The Committee is responsible for finance and Corporate Responsibility Committee audit work plans: treasury policy decisions.
The members of the Committee are Sir John oversees and reviews the procedures for the Group Executive Committee Coles Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, Frank receipt, retention and treatment of complaints The members of the Committee are the relating to financial matters, internal Chapman, William Friedrich, Peter Backhouse Executive Directors and those senior and Jrgen Dormann.
The Secretary to the accounting controls and auditing, and managers whose details are set out on the Groups Whistleblowing policy: Committee is Ben Mathews.
The Secretary to the Committee is Committee is to assist the Board in providing requests, receives and reviews reports from Ben Mathews.
The Committee has primary management on actions taken to address strategic leadership, direction and oversight, authority for the day-to-day management of on all corporate responsibility issues risk areas identified by management and or the Groups operations within agreed limits the internal audit process: including health, safety, security and set by the Board.
environment, community relations, human reviews with management, and external and internal auditors, the significant risk rights, business principles and sustainable Chairmans Committee development within the Group.
exposures and the processes established to The members of the Committee are Sir identify, monitor, control and report them: Robert Wilson Chairman, Frank Chapman, The Committee met on six occasions during annually reviews the control environment William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza.
The the year and meetings are normally attended within a specific asset: Secretary to the Committee is Ben Mathews.
by the Executive Vice President, Policy and annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board, The role of the Chairmans Committee is to Corporate Affairs.
the design and effectiveness of the internal advise and assist the Chairman in the control structure, the Groups financial In 2006, the principal activities of the Corporate preparation for Board meetings.
The reporting procedures and the Groups Responsibility Committee included: Committee also acts on behalf of the disclosure controls and procedures: and a review of BG Groups Business Principles: Board between scheduled meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 2006 Board and committee attendance Corporate Group Chairmans Audit Remuneration Responsibility Nominations Finance Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 816 6 4 6 3 5 11 Sir Robert Wilson 8 16 6 3 5 Frank Chapman 8 16 6 5 11 William Friedrich 8 14 5 5 11 Ashley Almanza 8 16 5 11 Peter Backhouse 8 6 4 6 Sir John Coles 8 4 6 Paul Collins 8 6 4 3 Lord Sharman 5 6 Baroness Hogg 8 6 4 3 Jrgen Dormann 6 4 6 a Philippe Varin 541 a Philippe Varin joined the Board on 2 May 2006.
He became a member of the Audit Committee on 17 July 2006, and of the Remuneration Committee on 13 December 2006.
BG Group maintains liability insurance The Board has therefore determined that Haven, in Wales, and in which BG Group for its Directors and officers, and also none of its non-executive Directors: has a 50% shareholding.
In making its determination this year, the Board has provides certain indemnities for its has been an employee of the Company noted that Peter Backhouse resigned from Directors and the Company Secretary.
or Group within the last five years: the board of RIVR in June 2006 and, as Further details are set out in the Directors such, his involvement with RIVR was no has, or has had within the last three report on page 56. years, a material business relationship longer relevant to its determination.
Peter Director Independence with the Company either directly or as Backhouse continues to hold directly and The Combined Code includes provisions a partner, shareholder, director or indirectly shares in RIVR representing, in for a companys board to assess the senior employee of a body that has aggregate, 0.2% of the total issued share independence of each non-executive such a relationship with the Company: capital of RIVR.
The outcome of this assessment has received or receives additional Sir John Coles, who will have served on is presented to the Board.
This assessment the Board for nine years on 23 April 2007, remuneration from the Company was applied in respect of the appointment apart from a directors fee, participates is considered to retain independence of of Philippe Varin to the Board during 2006. in the Companys share option or character and judgment by the Board.
The Nominations Committee reviewed the In accordance with provision A.
7.2 of a performance-related pay scheme, proposed appointment and determined or is a member of the Companys the Combined Code, which requires that he was independent at the time pension scheme: non-executive Directors serving more of his appointment.
than nine years to be subject to annual has close family ties with any of the re-election, he will stand for re-election The Board undertakes an annual review Companys advisers, Directors or at this years AGM.
He was last re-elected of the independence of its non-executive senior employees: at the AGM in 2006.
Directors in accordance with the criteria holds cross-directorships or has set out in the Combined Code and the Company Secretary significant links with other Directors applicable rules of the NYSE.
Following The Company Secretary, Ben Mathews, through involvement in other this review in 2006, the Board has is responsible for advising the Board, companies or bodies: concluded that each of the non-executive through the Chairman, on all governance Directors, with the exception of the represents a significant shareholder: or matters.
The Directors have full access to Chairman, is independent in accordance the advice and services of the Company has served on the Board for more than with those criteria.
Secretary, who is also responsible to the nine years from the date of his her Board for: ensuring that correct Board At the time of his original appointment, first election.
procedures are followed: ensuring from 1 January 2004, the Chairman was In last years report, the Board stated that effective communication flows within also considered independent by the the Board, its committees and between in making this determination, it had noted Board.
However, in accordance with that Peter Backhouse was a member of senior management and non-executive the Combined Code, the ongoing test the Supervisory Board of RIVR Acquisition Directors: and facilitating induction of independence for the Chairman is and assisting with the professional B. V. RIVR, the holding company of not appropriate, and, accordingly, Petroplus International N. V. now 4Gas development of Directors.
In addition, this was not a factor relevant to his any Director, who believes it may be B. V.. 4Gas B. V. has a 20% shareholding re-appointment as Chairman for required in the furtherance of his or her in Dragon LNG Group Limited, the joint a second three year term effective venture holding company that owns the duties, may take independent professional from 1 January 2007. advice at the cost of the Company.
LNG importation terminal at Milford Corporate governance 50 Governance framework continued Board meetings and table of attendance Similar evaluations were also conducted addition, the Board regularly monitors Directors are expected, wherever possible, by the chairmen of the Audit, the views of shareholders and considers Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility reports from its investor relations to attend all Board meetings, relevant committee meetings and the AGM.
advisers concerning institutional shareholder feedback.
The Chairman The results of the reviews were then The Board has regular scheduled and non-executive Directors are also given considered during one-to-one discussions meetings throughout the year.
Additional the opportunity to meet institutional with the Chairman and, collectively, at meetings of the Board are held as and shareholders and to discuss topical issues.
a Board meeting or at the relevant when necessary.
During 2006, the Board committee meetings.
This process led The Company, through its Investor met eight times.
A table detailing the to a number of process enhancements Relations team, responds to a variety individual Directors attendance at each covering strategy, succession planning of enquiries from shareholders and an of the Companys Board and committee and management development, site email communication facility is available meetings during 2006 is set out on page visits and information sessions.
These on the Groups website for this purpose.
In addition to those meetings, the enhancements will be implemented Board focuses on the Groups strategy at The Companys AGM will be held on during the course of 2007. an annual two day planning conference.
14 May 2007 at the International The performance of individual nonConvention Centre in Birmingham.
The Guidelines are in place concerning the executive Directors is evaluated by the AGM is an opportunity for shareholders content, timeliness and presentation of Chairman, with input from the committee who are able to attend to ask questions Board and committee papers from chairmen and the Executive Directors.
of the full Board of Directors, including management, to ensure that the Board The performance of the Chief Executive the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, is properly briefed.
is evaluated by the Chairman and Corporate Responsibility and Nominations Opportunities are provided within the non-executive Directors.
The performance committees, and the Company Secretary.
scheduled meeting programme for nonof the two other Executive Directors is The Notice of AGM, which includes full executive Directors to meet, without the evaluated by the Chief Executive in details of this years AGM, is set out on Chairman or Executive Directors being consultation with the Chairman and pages 145 to 149. present, and under the guidance of Paul other non-executive Directors.
Internal Control Framework Collins, the SID.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led The second element of BG Groups Board effectiveness by Paul Collins, the SID, and involved Governance framework is the Internal Directors induction and individual meetings with each of the Control Framework ICF, which defines professional development Executive Directors, followed by a group the way in which the Group operates.
All Directors appointed to the Board review with the non-executive Directors, It comprises the Groups Business Principles, excluding the Chairman.
The outcome receive a full induction briefing tailored to policies, processes, standards and guidelines.
their individual needs, taking into account of this review was then reported to the The Board is ultimately responsible for the their qualifications and experience.
Chairman and formed the basis of the Groups system of internal controls and recommendation by the Nominations Ongoing professional development is oversees the review, compliance and Committee to the Board to re-appoint provided to Directors to meet their assurance processes that have been the Chairman for a second three year particular requirements.
The Boards role is undertaken term from 1 January 2007. received regular briefings during 2006 on in accordance with the guidance set out The Directors have concluded that, key relevant and topical issues, including in the Combined Code and as set out in following this evaluation, the Board and legislative, corporate governance, financial the US recognised COSO framework which its committees operate effectively and reporting and operational matters.
has been adopted by the Audit Committee also consider that each Director is see page 46.
The COSO framework Workshops, seminars and teach-ins on contributing to the overall effectiveness provides reasonable, rather than absolute, issues specifically relating to BG Groups and success of the Group.
assurance against material loss or business, such as engineering projects, misstatement and is designed to manage, Relationship with shareholders climate change and health and safety, were rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure and Annual General Meeting also provided to Directors during 2006. to achieve business objectives.
The Board recognises the importance Board evaluation of maintaining an ongoing relationship Each year, confirmation is sought that all A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation with the Companys shareholders based assets and functions across the Group of the performance of the Board, its on frequent dialogue.
The Board is have, throughout the year, complied with principal committees, the individual accountable to shareholders for the a series of core controls comprising non-executive Directors and the performance and activities of the Group mandatory policies, processes or standards Chairman, was conducted during the and it is proactive in obtaining an from the ICF that significantly contribute year.
The Board evaluations were led understanding of shareholder views to the identification and mitigation of one by the Chairman and supported by on a number of matters.
or more risks relating to the achievement the Company Secretary and comprised of the Groups objectives.
The Board, Regular meetings with institutional a series of one-to-one interviews through the Chief Executive, asks each shareholders are held with the Chief between the Chairman and each member of the Group Executive Executive and Chief Financial Officer non-executive Director.
Committee GEC to complete and and, where appropriate, the Chairman, submit to the Chief Executive a Letter The interviews were based upon a following the announcement of quarterly number of key areas covering Group of Assurance LOA, which provides this and annual results.
This ensures that the confirmation for the areas of the strategy, succession planning, Board size investor community receives a balanced business for which they are accountable.
and the relationship between the Board and comprehensive view of the Groups A Governance Self-Assessment GSA and its committees.
performance and the issues it faces.
In CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 questionnaire, derived from the core 3.
Independent Assurance controls, is also completed by the The third element of BG Groups management tier reporting directly Governance framework is Independent to a member of the GEC, in order to Assurance, which is provided primarily by Group Audit, by the independent external complement and support the LOA.
Any exceptions arising from the GSA Auditors, and by other external advisers.
questionnaires are collated and analysed Group Audit provides assurance to the to support the determination of the Board, Audit Committee, GEC and effectiveness of the ICF during the year.
management that effective and efficient internal control processes are in place to The Disclosure Committee, through formal identify and manage business risk across and systematic enquiries of, and interviews the Group.
In particular, Group Audit: with, each member of the GEC and the Group Financial Controller, has evaluated provides an independent assessment of the individual LOAs submitted to the Chief the Groups system of risk management Executive.
The outcome of the process and internal control: followed by the Disclosure Committee has assists management by carrying out been reported to the Chief Executive and independent appraisals of the Chief Financial Officer.
effectiveness of the internal control In turn, a report was presented to the environment and making Audit Committee setting out the process recommendations for improvement: and followed by management and the outcome supports development of the Groups of the exercise.
The Audit Committee governance and business risk reviewed this report with management, management policies.
the external auditors and Group Audit and, based on that review, reported to the The independent external Auditors report Board on the effectiveness of BG Groups to shareholders and their audit opinion on ICF in 2006. the applicable section of the Financial Statements are set out on page 70.
Taking into account the processes that have been designed and implemented The external reserves consultant, for 2006, the Board has concluded that Degoyler & MacNaughton, provides the Groups system of internal controls an independent review on certain of is effective.
BG Groups gas and oil reserves.
Risk management The objective of risk management within BG Group is to improve performance and decision-making through the identification, evaluation and management of key risks.
To achieve this, a business risk management process has been established to identify, evaluate and assist with the management of the risks faced by the Group.
The process operates on a mandatory basis across the Group and provides the Audit Committee with assurance that the major risks faced by the Group have been identified and are regularly assessed, and that, wherever possible, there are controls in place to manage these risks.
BG Group views risk management as an integral part of good business practice.
Risk assessment and evaluation are incorporated into the key business processes, including strategy and business planning, investment appraisal, performance management and Health, Safety, Security and Environment management processes.
The risk management process is reviewed by the Governance & Risk Committee on behalf of the GEC, whilst the Audit Committee oversees the design and effectiveness of the process on behalf of the Board.
