Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Group to the In this section of our Annual Report & Accounts, we explain the key elements Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the executive directors and senior of the Groups corporate governance structure and how we comply with the executives.
The Group Chief Executive and executive directors of the Group are principles of the Combined Code.
responsible to the Board for developing strategy and the profitability and overall performance of the Group.
The directors of Alliance & Leicester plc are committed to high standards of corporate governance practices, and both personal and corporate integrity.
Appointment, Induction and Training of Directors We believe that an effective Board is fundamental to the prosperity of the The composition of the Board is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring Group and continue to strive for excellence in the way we operate and in our that the directors collectively possess the necessary skills and experience to leadership of the Group.
direct the Groups business activities.
In our continuing drive towards transparency and maintaining an effective The process for appointing new directors is determined by the Nomination dialogue with our shareholders, I would welcome any comments that you may Committee.
The balance and mix of appropriate skills and experience of the have about Alliance & Leicester and our corporate governance.
non-executive directors is taken into account when considering a new Sir Derek Higgs appointment.
Clear selection criteria are agreed by the Committee and an Chairman external search consultancy is appointed to identify prospective candidates.
The short-listed candidates are interviewed by the Chairman, other members Compliance Statement of the Nomination Committee and the Group Chief Executive.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, Alliance & Leicester has applied the Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at principles and complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and at least every on Corporate Governance.
Details of how Alliance & Leicester complied with three years thereafter.
An induction programme provides an understanding the Code are summarised in this statement.
of the Group and its strategy, products, markets and financial position, and includes guidance on directors legal responsibilities.
New non-executive Board Structure directors also have a series of introductory meetings with senior management At the date of this report, the Group Board comprises the Chairman, Sir Derek of the Group and all non-executive directors make regular visits to the Groups Higgs, the Group Chief Executive, Richard Pym, three executive directors and operational locations.
All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent by the Board.
Peter Barton is non-executive Deputy All directors have access to the services of the Group Secretary and his Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
As a matter of policy, colleagues.
Independent professional advice on issues affecting the Group the roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and is also available to all directors, on request via the Group Secretary, at the complementary.
All members of the Board are also encouraged to attend external training and development events to ensure that they maintain the The directors come from diverse business backgrounds and have the necessary skills and knowledge to fulfil their roles.
appropriate mix of experience and expertise.
Each actively and effectively contributes to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The directors are The appointment of all non-executive directors is documented in a letter of required to report any material change in their circumstances to the Board.
appointment, the standard terms of which are available on the Group website During 2006, the Chairman reported that he had resigned as Deputy Chairman at www.
of The British Land Company PLC and the Group Chief Executive reported that he had become Chairman of Halfords plc.
The significant other commitments Board Committees of the directors are monitored and are set out in their biographical details The Group Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees.
The terms of reference for the principal Group Board Committees are available on the Group website at www.
The Board reviews The Group Secretary is an employee of the Company.
the terms of reference of each Committee annually.
Membership of each Committee is designed to ensure that the best use of the non-executive Role of the Group Board directors skills and experience is made to fulfil the Committees roles The Group Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews effectively.
The current Board Committee structure and the work of the operating, financial and risk performance.
It is the decision-making body for principal Committees is set out below.
all other matters deemed material to the Group in strategic, financial and reputational terms.
The non-executive directors constructively challenge the Group Board management team and supplement the executive directors management expertise with a diversity of business skills and experience.
The Group Board and its Committees meet regularly.
The table on page 37 Nomination Remuneration Group Audit Group Risk summarises the number of Board and Committee meetings and the level of Committee Committee Committee Committee attendance.
Formal minutes or reports of each of these meetings are circulated Nomination Committee to all Directors.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Group Chairman and up to four nonThere is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Group Board, which includes: executive directors and is responsible for: formulation of corporate strategies and objectives: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and time required of directors and the structure, size and composition of the Group Board and approval of interim and final financial results and payment of dividends: its Committees: the appointment of directors: recommending new appointments to the Group Board and reviewing approval of major capital expenditure: re-appointments as they become due: approval of annual budgets and medium term plans: succession and contingency planning for all Board, Committee and senior management positions: and approval of significant changes in the Group structure and product range.
the annual review of performance of non-executive directors and Board Committees.
34 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 As at 20 February 2007, the Committee members are: Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee approves the Groups overall risk appetite, reviews Sir Derek Higgs Chairman and approves the policy statements relating to credit, market, liquidity and Mr M P S Barton funding and operational risks.
The Committee also monitors the risks Mrs M Salmon associated with the Groups pension scheme.
Mr E J Watts The Committee also approves the use of the Groups economic capital models Mr S Lloyd, Group Secretary, is the secretary of the Nomination Committee.
in relation to credit, market, operational, pension fund and other risks, for During 2006, the Committees activities included reviewing the Group Boards the purposes of assessing capital adequacy and measuring the risk adjusted succession plan and considering the selection criteria for new non-executive performance of business units and activities.
It receives and considers reports on the status of key current and emerging Remuneration Committee risks and internal controls relating to those risks.
The Committee also receives The composition and work of the Remuneration Committee and the Groups the report from the Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
remuneration policy is described in detail in the Directors Remuneration An overview of the Groups risk management and control framework can be Report on pages 39 to 45. found on pages 58 and 59.
Group Audit Committee The Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors, the Group The Group Audit Committee comprises five non-executive directors and is Chief Executive and Mr M Thomas, the Director of Group Risk.
In 2006 meetings responsible for the following areas: were also attended by the Chairman, the executive directors, the Directors of Internal Controls: Credit & Risk for the Commercial and Retail Banks, the Director of Lending, the Group Secretary, the Head of Group Compliance, the Head of Group Internal reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: Audit and the Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
considering the annual Internal Audit and Compliance plans and those departments activities, resources and organisational structures: The Committee members as at 20 February 2007 are: approving the annual internal audit and compliance plans and Mr M R Aish Chairman monitoring their progress: Mrs J V Barker Financial Reporting: Mr M P S Barton reviewing the Annual Report & Accounts and Interim Results on behalf of Mr R J Duke the Group Board: Mr R A Pym Mr M Thomas reviewing management representations: reviewing the changes to accounting policy and compliance with best Mr D Austen, Head of Credit Group Risk and Mr R Davies, Head of Operational principles and regulatory requirements: Risk, act as secretaries to the Group Risk Committee.
reviewing the control of the financial and business risks: and Chairmans Committee reviewing the appointment and re-appointment of external auditors and The Chairmans Committee is empowered to take decisions on matters that the nature and scope of work to be performed by the external auditors.
require Board approval between Board meetings and comprises the Chairman or a non-executive director, the Deputy Chairman or another non-executive The Committee meets at least four times a year.
director and the Group Chief Executive or one other executive director.
During the year the Committee reviewed the level of fees in respect of audit services and oversaw the policy for engaging the Groups External Auditors for Evaluation of the Group Board and Committees audit and non-audit services.
This policy sets out clearly the types of services During 2006, Dr. Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, an independent the External Auditors are, and are not, allowed to provide, and the criteria that consultancy, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and must be met before the agreed services are provided.
Full details of this policy its Committees, individual directors and the Chairman.
The process included can be found at www.
a written questionnaire, an interview with each director, except Mr M J Allen, due to his ill-health, and the Group Secretary.
Boardroom Review also In addition the Committee reviews the whistle blowing arrangements, attended the November Board meeting and reviewed Board papers for the ensuring that employees may raise concerns about possible improprieties October and November 2006 Board meetings.
in relation to the Groups business or financial reporting.
The review found that the Group Board and its Committees operate as a As at 20 February 2007, the Committee members are: strong and effective team which has guided the Company through periods Mrs J V Barker Chairman of significant cultural and organisational change in a volatile and competitive Mr M R Aish external environment.
The review made suggestions for enhanced Mr M P S Barton effectiveness in the areas of Board process papers, agendas and Mr R J Duke presentations, succession planning and consideration of risk appetite.
Mr R M McTighe The Board has accepted the comments made and will make changes during this year to reflect them.
The Board considers that the members of the Committee have relevant skills and experience from a range of financial services and technology backgrounds enabling them to apply meaningful independent judgement as part of their role.
In particular, Mrs J V Barker has the requisite 'recent and relevant financial experience', as recommended by the Combined Code, to ensure that the Committee can fulfil its role effectively.
Miss A Ward, Head of Group Internal Audit, is the secretary of the Group Audit Committee and in 2006 the meetings were attended by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the executive directors, the Director of Group Financial Control and Reporting, the Director of Group Risk, the Group Secretary, the Head of Group Compliance and representatives from Deloitte & Touche LLP, and the External Auditors.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued Accountability and Audit a Group Risk Management function and Group Operational Risk Committee The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for with overarching responsibility for the monitoring and reporting of monitoring its effectiveness.
The directors are required by law to establish all major risks to which the Group is exposed, supported by specialist systems for the control of the conduct of the business under the Financial risk functions: Services and Markets Act 2000 and to conduct the business with prudence an Internal Audit function which reports to the Group Audit Committee on and integrity, ensuring that there are adequate reserves and other capital the effectiveness of key internal controls in relation to these major risks: resources and assets in liquid form for the protection of depositors.
a Compliance function to manage relationships with the Groups key The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups Internal Control Policy regulators and to identify major compliance and regulatory risks: to the Group Audit and Group Risk Committees.
a Financial Crime Steering Group, chaired by the Group Chief Executive, The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than which considers the potential exposure of the Group to loss through eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide financial crime and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of such loss: reasonable assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
The Group Risk a Money Laundering Reporting Officer and anti-money laundering Committee received reports on the current operation of internal controls in procedures, and controls including training programmes for all staff: relation to key and emerging risks, and the Group Audit Committee carried out documented procedures and authority levels to ensure that risks involved an overall review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in major projects are properly assessed and controlled: and for the year to 31 December 2006 and the period to the date of this report, on behalf of the Board.
internal assurances given by senior managers to the Board that all risks affecting the business have been reviewed and identify any risks that need to be reported There has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this to the auditors for the purposes of S234ZA of the Companies Act.
report a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords The activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, are with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority.
The Group is required on a regular basis to submit detailed prudential and statistical The Board receives monthly reports from the key executives identifying returns covering all areas of its business and meets regularly with its performance against budget, major business issues, the impact of the external supervisors, conducting the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
business and economic environment on their areas of responsibility and significant risks facing the businesses and how they are being controlled.
The Going Concern Board also receives minutes and reports from the Chairmen of the Group Audit The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
These identify any significant issues resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, relating to the adequacy of the Groups risk management policies and they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
procedures across the full range of risks to which the Group is exposed, and how they are being controlled.
Relations with Shareholders Each meeting of the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee The Companys investor relations programme is tailored to meet different receives a report identifying the effectiveness of internal controls together shareholder requirements.
with specific reports on any major issues.
The Board keeps itself informed Institutional shareholders may attend meetings, conference calls, in relation to this issue through the presentation of regular Group Audit presentations and results briefings.
The Companys major institutional Committee and Group Risk Committee activity reports to the Group shareholders have the opportunity to meet regularly with the Companys Board, together with the minutes of the Committees meetings.
management and have the opportunity to request a meeting with the Chairman The key features of the system of business control and risk assessment or non-executive directors via the Companys website.
A representative from established by the Board are: an institutional shareholder was invited to, and attended, a meeting of the Group Board in 2006 as part of the Groups communication programme with a Group Internal Control Policy requiring all senior managers to identify institutional investors.
The Chairman and non-executive directors attend major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls against key results presentations and the Senior Independent Director is available to performance indicators applied throughout the business.
The effectiveness deal with any concerns raised by institutional shareholders which cannot of these controls is confirmed and certified to the Board in February and be resolved in the first instance by contacting the Chairman or Group July each year via the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
The Groups Internal Audit Department carries out reviews of the self certification process operated by each department or business unit as Communication with private shareholders is primarily managed by the Group part of the audit of that department or unit: Secretary.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet the directors at the Annual General Meeting, which is held in the evening at the Companys a well defined management structure with clear accountabilities Leicestershire head office.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are and delegations: encouraged to vote by proxy and may appoint their proxy by post, on the the Group Audit Committee, the Group Risk Committee and a system of internet or via CREST.
There is also a website, www.
 management committees, including the Executive Directors shareregistrars.
co. uk, offering a variety of services for shareholders such as Meeting and the Group Executive Management Committee, enhance amending a mandate instruction, changing address details, registering to and support the oversight role of the Board: receive communications electronically and downloading stock transfer forms.
a comprehensive planning and budgeting process that delivers detailed The Company website provides investors and potential investors with annual financial forecasts and targets for Board approval: information about the Companys financial performance and results, share price, announcements to the market, group policies, terms of reference for management information systems which enable the Board to receive Board Committees and a number of frequently asked questions and answers.
comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and business performance Shareholders may also contact the investor relations or shareholder services including variance against budget: managers via the website.
36 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings during 2006 Group Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Risk Total number of meetings held in 2006 9 5 5 5 5 Sir Derek Higgs, Chairman 9 5 Mr R A Pym 9 5 Mr M P S Barton 9 5 5 5 4 Mr M R Aish 9 5 5 Mr M J Allen 6 4 5 Mr R L Banks 9 Mrs J V Barker 9 5 5 Mr D J Bennett 9 Mr R J Duke 8 4 5 Mr R M McTighe 9 5 4 Mr C S Rhodes 9 Mrs M Salmon 9 5 5 Mr E J Watts 8 5 During the year apologies were received from Mr Duke and Mr Watts for one Group Board meeting and from Mr M P S Barton and Mr R M McTighe for one Committee meeting owing to commitments outside Alliance & Leicester.
All directors receive the Board papers and have the opportunity to raise questions via the Chairman or Group Secretary if they are unable to attend.
Prior to his retirement, Mr Allen was prevented by illness from attending a number of Group Board and Committee meetings.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Corporate Governance
