Corporate governance 8 Non-executive Directors Lesley M S Knox MA Chairman 52 William H Jack 61 Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Joined the board 2001: appointed Chairman Joined the board 2000: Senior Independent Nomination Committee 2004: Chairman of the Nomination Director Committee William Jack joined the General Accident Lesley Knox qualified as a lawyer and Fire & Life Assurance Company in 1973, and worked in the UK and US advising companies was the Managing Director of GA Life on a range of commercial matters.
All are also directors of The subsequently CGU Life with responsibility Subsequently she worked as a corporate Second Alliance Trust PLC and for the UK life and unit trust business, from finance adviser, first with Kleinwort Benson 1991 to 2000.
where in 1996 she became a group director, Other directorships include Skipton Group and was then a founder director of British Ages are as at 17 March 2006.
Holdings Limited and Skipton Building Linen Advisers.
She was also Head of Society.
Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided investment services to clients worldwide.
Other directorships include Hays PLC, HMV Group PLC and MFI Furniture Group PLC.
Executive Directors Alan J Harden 48 Joined the Company as Chief Executive member of the Global Executive Committee.
designate 2003: appointed Chief Executive He joined the Company as Chief Executive 2004 designate in November 2003 and was appointed to the board on 1 January 2004, Alan Harden started his career in the the date on which he took up the investment industry in the UK in 1978, responsibilities of Chief Executive.
moving to Europe in 1980 and then on to Cyprus two years later.
From 1984 to 1990 he Alan Harden is a director of the Scottish was with Wardley Investment Services part Community Foundation.
of HSBC group and relocated to Dubai in 1985.
In 1988 he moved to Hong Kong as a Senior Investment Manager.
In 1990 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Managing Director of Scimitar Asset Management based in Singapore.
In 1994 he became Global Head of Investment Services.
In 2000 he moved to Citigroup Asset Management in Japan, was Head of the Asset Management business in the Asia Pacific region and a 9 Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc W Gordon McQueen BSc CA FCIBS 59 Clare Salmon MA 42 PhD AKC 58 Joined the board 2004: Chairman of the Audit Joined the board 2005.
Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the Committee Clare Salmon graduated with an MA in Remuneration Committee Gordon McQueen graduated in chemistry and English from Cambridge.
In 1987 she joined Christopher Masters took his doctorate in trained as an equity portfolio fund manager Boston Consulting Group as a management chemistry at Leeds University and worked for before embarking on a banking career.
He is consultant, working in London and Madrid.
Shell Chemicals in the UK.
He joined Christian a former Chairman and Chief Executive of She gained considerable experience in Salvesen as business development manager in HBOS Treasury Services PLC.
He was financial services and was Consumer 1979, becoming Director of Planning for its Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and, Marketing Director for the Prudential before US operation and then Chief Executive from until the end of 2003, served on the boards of joining Avis Europe as Group Marketing 1989 to 1997.
He was then appointed both HBOS PLC and Halifax PLC as an Director.
After a brief spell at Transacsys PLC Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post executive director following their merger in she joined Centrica PLC, becoming Managing he held until January 2002.
He has experience in many areas of the Director of AA Financial Services before Chairman of SMG PLC and also chairs the financial services business, particularly in joining the commercial television network ITV Festival City Theatres Trust.
international banking, corporate and as Marketing Director in 2005.
She is now commercial banking, treasury and finance.
Other directorships include British Assets Director of Marketing and Commercial Trust PLC, The Crown Agents Foundation and Other directorships include Scottish Mortgage Strategy at ITV and is also a director of DTV John Wood Group PLC.
Investment Trust PLC, JPMorgan Mid Cap Services Limited and The Marketing Society.
Investment Trust PLC and Shaftesbury PLC.
Alan M W Young MA LLB 59 Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 56 David Deards BA ACA 46 Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the Joined the Company and the board 2003 board 1992 board 2000 David Deards read zoology at Oxford and Sheila Ruckley studied in the UK and at Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and qualified as a chartered accountant with Wellesley College and the University of worked in London at Buckmaster & Moore, Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before Pennsylvania before qualifying as a solicitor stockbrokers, before joining the investment joining Ansbacher & Co, where he gained in Scots and English law.
She joined the department at Gartmore as an analyst and considerable experience in corporate finance Company in 1988, becoming Company fund manager.
He became a director of and banking and investment product Secretary in 1989, an office she held until Gartmores pension and investment trust development, and became a director in 1995.
2000 when she was appointed a director.
On joining the He joined the Company as Finance Director had a close involvement with the Company he managed the UK and European in 2003. development of Alliance Trust Savings, portfolios before becoming Investment initially on the compliance side and then taking responsibility for the introduction of Director.
Alliance Trust Savings' self-invested personal pension.
As a director she first developed the investor relations function before taking responsibility for the establishment of the risk management framework.
This risk management role was handed over to the Finance Director in January 2005 and she is now Director of Corporate Development.
Corporate governance 10 Company, arranged with the Company In this section we report Corporate Structure to share office, investment management, to you on our structure administration and staff costs.
In 1923 Investment Trust Status this smaller company changed its name and corporate The Alliance Trust PLC is an investment to the Second Alliance Trust.
After each accounting period governance.
The investment objective of the two it seeks approval to qualify as an companies is the same and their statement regarding investment trust under the Taxes Acts portfolios, which are almost identical in from the HM Revenue and Customs.
compliance with the composition, are managed in parallel in Since receiving the last approval, which terms of identical investment polices.
Combined Code on was for the year ended 31 January 2005, The directors of both companies are the the Company has conducted its affairs to Corporate Governance, same individuals.
enable it to continue to seek approval.
as required by the rules Together, the Alliance Trust and the Structure Second Alliance Trust own ATS and ATF, of the UK Listing with the Alliance Trust having a 75% The Companys investments include Authority, is on page 16. shareholding in both companies.
those in subsidiary companies, principally Alliance Trust Savings Each company takes independent advice Limited ATS and Alliance Trust as appropriate.
ATS, which is authorised and regulated by the The Board Financial Services Authority, provides The Alliance Trust has a board of and administers a range of investment executive and non-executive directors.
products in the form of PEPs, ISAs, SIPPs, SSASs and Investment Plans.
The board provides the Company with both leadership and stewardship.
The ATF invests its assets to generate income and also acts as agent for the boards main duties are: acquisition of services and supplies To set the objective of the Group and required by the Group and The Second to use its best endeavours to Alliance Trust PLC the Second Alliance achieve that objective.
is set out opposite page one.
The Company operates in parallel with To formulate business strategy.
This arrangement goes back to the end of To provide leadership within a the First World War when another, framework of prudent and effective smaller, Dundee company, then called controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
the Western & Hawaiian Investment Executive Directors Alan Harden Chief Executive David Deards Finance Director Sheila Ruckley Director of Corporate Development Alan Young Investment Director 11 To set the standards and values of Committee page 13 and pages 18-21 description, both of which have been the Group and ensure that it and the Audit Committee page 16. agreed by the board as a whole.
understands and meets its Lesley Knox, Chairman since 30 April The Senior Independent Director is the obligations to shareholders and 2004, has been a director since director to whom shareholders should others.
June 2001. turn if they have issues which they consider are not being dealt with by the To approve asset allocation and The Chairman and the other nonChairman or the Chief Executive or in gearing strategy.
executive directors form a majority on circumstances when contact with the the board.
As well as those collective To monitor performance.
Chairman or Chief Executive may be duties which they have as members of inappropriate.
the board, the non-executive directors Executive Directors scrutinise and constructively challenge There are four executive directors each Independence of Directors the performance of the executive, help of whom served throughout the year.
develop strategy, monitor the integrity The board considers that all of the nonof the financial information, and satisfy The Chief Executive is responsible for executive directors have the themselves that financial controls and delivering the strategic objectives independence of mind, strength of systems of risk management of the agreed by the board and for the day-tocharacter and judgement to satisfy the Group are robust and defensible.
Nonday running of the Group.
executive directors, through the Each of the non-executive directors is Remuneration Committee, fix the Non-executive Directors also a director of the Second Alliance remuneration of the executive directors Trust.
The Company and the Second There are five non-executive directors.
and, through the Nomination Alliance Trust are directed and William Berry retired from the board on Committee, have primary responsibility managed on the same principles, with 29 April 2005 after serving as a nonfor succession planning.
the same aims and objectives, the same executive director for 10 years.
There is a division of responsibility investment policies, the same Clare Salmon was appointed as a nonbetween the Chairman, whose duty is to management and almost identical executive director on 17 June 2005.
The run the board effectively, and the Chief portfolios.
The board believes that the other non-executive directors served Executive, who is charged with relationship does not compromise the throughout the year.
delivering the strategic objectives independence of the non-executive agreed by the board and running the Biographical details of all the directors directors.
The Company derives business of the Group effectively.
The appear on pages eight and nine and substantial benefit from the relationship Chairman has no executive demonstrate the range of expertise that with the Second Alliance Trust.
The Chief Executive is they each bring to bear on board matters.
There are no other relationships or accountable to the board for the All the non-executive directors serve on financial and operational performance circumstances relating to any of the one or more committees of the board.
non-executive directors which might of the Group.
This separation of roles is The committees are the Nomination cause any of them not to be considered documented in Lesley Knoxs letter of Committee page 13, the Remuneration appointment and Alan Hardens job independent.
Non-executive Directors Lesley Knox Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination Committee William Jack Senior Independent Director, member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees Christopher Masters Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of Audit and Nomination Committees Clare Salmon Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Corporate governance 12 can raise issues for discussion at a Groups reputation such as litigation.
Information and Professional board meeting.
The board receives The board itself decides which matters Development presentations on key aspects of the are reserved to it.
All directors receive a formal induction business from relevant members of to the affairs and business of the Group, senior management at board meetings Access to Advice which may include, where appropriate, during the year.
The board may ask for meeting with both institutional and The board has set out for all directors a further information before making process whereby, if necessary and on private shareholders.
Decisions are made reference to the Chairman or Chairman professional development courses are collectively.
If there were an even of the Audit Committee, each may also made available as required.
division on a subject, the Chairman individually access independent would have a casting vote.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the professional advice on matters relating Chief Executive and Company Secretary, In addition to regular board meetings, to the Group or his or her office, at the plans the programme for the board the Chairman meets at least once each Companys expense.
The agenda for board year with the non-executive directors Each director has direct access to the and committee meetings are considered only.
The non-executives, led by the Company Secretary to obtain by the respective chairman and issued Senior Independent Director, meet at information and assistance as required.
with supporting papers during the least once a year without the Chairman The Company Secretary, through the preceding week.
Ad hoc meetings among these Chairman, advises the board on groups also take place if required.
A Non-executive directors meet with corporate governance matters.
record of directors attendance at senior managers and other staff.
All scheduled board and committee directors receive briefings and updates Evaluation of Directors meetings during the year appears below.
on the business, changes to the Performance business, and on legislation and corporate governance.
A formal evaluation of the board has Decision Making been carried out to determine how Delegation to the executive is necessary effectively the board as a whole, its Meetings for the efficient running of the Group.
individual directors and its committees While the Chief Executive and his team The directors meet formally on a are functioning.
The board approached are responsible for operational matters regular basis at least ten times in the this evaluation with the intention of generally, some issues are specifically year.
In addition the board meets once a focussing on the boards overall reserved for decision of the board as a year for a review of its overall strategy.
contribution and identifying areas for whole, whether because of their Ad hoc meetings may also be convened, potential improvement.
The directors strategic importance such as and the committees of the board meet met specifically to discuss the borrowings or commencing a new as required to discharge their specific performance of the board as a whole business, their significance such as duties.
and their comments were shared with changes in the Groups management Any director, executive or non-executive, and noted by the Chairman.
The structure, or their importance to the The number of board and committee Audit Nomination Remuneration meetings and attendance by members Attendance at meetings Board Committee Committee Committee during the year are set out in the table.
Where a director joined the board Number of Meetings in the year 12 4 4 2 during the year, or committee William Berry 2 3 1 1 1 2 1 1 membership changed, the maximum number of meetings which that director Lesley Knox 12 - - 2 was due to attend is shown in brackets.
Alan Harden 12 - - 2 Two board meetings were held at short David Deards 12 - - - notice to deal with a specific issues.
William Jack 10 1 1 3 2 Due to the short notice, Mrs Ruckley, Christopher Masters 9 3 3 2 Mr Jack and Mr McQueen were unable Gordon McQueen 10 3 3 4 2 to attend one and Dr Masters and Mr McQueen were unable to attend the Sheila Ruckley 11 - - - other.
All directors received notice of Clare Salmon 6 6 2 2 1 1 - the meetings and agreed to them Alan Young 12 - - - proceeding.
13 Chairman discussed individual senior management, including pension and qualities would best suit the needs performance with each director and the rights, any compensation payments and of the board and the Group and prepare a Senior Independent Director held iii for the implementation of employee specification of the role and a candidate discussions with directors about the share plans.
It invites directors to make any Chairmans performance and discussed Committee also ensures compliance proposals, and appoints search agents the results with the Chairman.
The with the Combined Code in this respect.
to seek out candidates matching the chairman of each of the board The Committee members are profile.
The Committee considers all committees received written comments Christopher Masters Chairman, candidates brought to its attention.
The on that Committees performance from William Jack, Gordon McQueen and Committee recommends the candidates its members and reported these to the Clare Salmon, who joined the it considers best fulfil the criteria to the board as a whole.
During the year and Committee in July 2005.
William Berry full board, which decides on the as a result of these discussions there was a member until he retired from the appointment.
have been changes to some reports board in April 2005.
For more detail on It is the Companys policy that the which are prepared for board meetings, the remuneration of directors and the Chairman of the Company does not more time has been given for Audit and role of the Remuneration Committee, serve on any Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee meetings and please refer to the Directors dealing with the nomination of his or arrangements are made so that key Remuneration Report on pages 18 to 20. her successor, nor does any director topics can be reviewed in greater depth.
proposed to succeed to such office.
Nomination Committee and Audit Committee Appointments Committee Terms of Reference The role of the Audit Committee is The members of the Nomination The constitution and terms of reference described in the section Accountability Committee are Lesley Knox, William of each of the Audit, Remuneration and and Audit on page 16.
Jack, Christopher Masters, Gordon Nomination Committees are available McQueen and Alan Harden.
The for reference on our website.
Nomination Committee has Remuneration Committee responsibility for making The Remuneration Committee has Executive Committee recommendations to the Board on the responsibility for making An Executive Committee, appointed by composition of the Board and its recommendations to the Board i on the Chief Executive advises the Chief committees and on retirements and the Companys policy on the Executive.
Its members are noted in the appointments of additional and remuneration of senior management, table below.
replacement directors and ensuring ii for the determination, within agreed compliance with the Combined Code.
terms of reference, of the remuneration Material Interests When a need to appoint a director is of the Chairman and of specific identified, the Nomination Committee remuneration packages for each of the During the year, no director had any Executive Directors and the members of will consider what background skills material interest in any contract, being Executive Committee comprises all executive directors and Gill Cattanach Group Head of Marketing Grant Lindsay Head of Equities Steve Smith Head of Human Resources Rowland Strickland Chief Operating Officer Corporate governance 14 a contract of significance, with the service contracts.
shares held by the Trustee of the SMEIP.
Company or any subsidiary company or Accordingly in the table below we show, Biographical details of all directors are was connected to any adviser or for each director, the number of shares on pages eight and nine.
supplier who had such an interest.
held by the Trustee Deemed EBT Shareholders are referred to the Notice interest separately from the shares of the AGM, which is in a separate deposited by the individual director.
Re-election of Directors document from this report.
The matching awards are made by nilAll appointments to the board are cost share purchase options, shown in subject to approval by the shareholders Directors Shareholdings the table on page 15.
The amount of at the Annual General Meeting AGM shares over which the options can be All directors must hold at least 200 next following the appointment.
The exercised depends on the Companys ordinary shares of the Company.
Details Articles of Association require that all Total Shareholder Return performance of the holdings of all of the directors are directors are subject to re-election by over the three year period following shown in the tables below and on the shareholders at least every three the award.
Non-executive directors will normally retire from the board after In addition, each of the directors is Each director has shares in which he or nine years service.
deemed to be interested in the shares she is beneficially interested.
These held by the Trustee of the All Employee Clare Salmon joined the board in June include shares held by their spouses, Share Ownership Plan.
The shares to 2005 and her appointment is subject to children under 18 years and any other which the director is in fact entitled approval by shareholders at the connected persons.
under this plan are included in his or forthcoming AGM.
At the AGM The executive directors are all her beneficial interest.
Christopher Masters and David Deards participants in the Senior Managers will retire by rotation and stand for reThe Company has not granted any Equity Incentive Plan SMEIP which, in election.
The board unanimously options to subscribe for its shares.
April 2005 for the first time made recommends the appointment of Clare matching awards, subject to Salmon and the re-election of performance conditions, based on Relationships with Shareholders Christopher Masters and David Deards beneficially-owned shares deposited in The board is collectively responsible for by shareholders.
the plan by the directors.
The deposited ensuring that a meaningful dialogue is In common with the other executive shares are shown in the table below.
The matching awards are made by directors, David Deards has a contract As well as meetings with institutional of service with the Company which is options which are set out in the table on shareholders, which are largely page 15.
The options are over shares terminable by the Company on one conducted by the Chairman and Chief years notice.
In common with the other which are purchased in the market.
Executive, private shareholder investor Additionally, since all of the executive non-executive directors, Clare Salmon forums are held throughout the UK.
The and Christopher Masters have letters of directors are potential beneficiaries Chairman relates to the board those under the SMEIP, each is deemed to be appointment setting out the terms of issues raised with her by major and their appointments, but do not have beneficially interested in all of the 7,487 Acquisition of shares after 31 January 2006 has been Directors Interests 31 January 2006 pursuant only to standing All interests are beneficial As at 1 February Acquired between Deemed instructions through plans Ordinary shares of 25p 2005 or date of 31 January 2006 and Shares Deposited EBT provided by ATS and through appointment 15 March 2006 held with EBT interest the All Employee Share Lesley Knox 1,255 2,175 - - 16 Ownership Plan.
All directors see Political and Charitable Donations Green Disclosures correspondence from shareholders on During the year we made no political or In carrying out our activities over the Company issues.
charitable donations save that we have last year, our UK greenhouse gas The directors encourage all been a sponsor of ProShare now IFS emissions by reason of the Groups shareholders, including those who hold Proshare this year making a contribution activities office heat and power their shares through nominees, to of 4,807 4,005.
IFS ProShare, which requirements and employee travel, attend and take part in the AGM.
has charitable status, promotes the calculated in accordance with reporting rights of private shareholders and guidelines issued by the Department for We are required to report to you which supports education on share ownership.
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs shareholders have told us that they own amounted to 197 146 tonnes of carbon more than 3% of our ordinary shares.
This is the equivalent of Where the shares are in a nominee for beneficial owners who retain voting operating 17.4 12.9 three bar electric Investment purchases are settled in rights, the holding must be notified to fires for a year.
accordance with the terms of the the Company when it reaches 10% of exchanges on which the investments the ordinary shares.
We try to achieve favourable Social Responsibilities and terms when buying services and Environmental Issues Below we give a table which shows who supplies.
Contracts and payment terms has notified us of a 3% or more holding.
We make investments against the are carefully scrutinised and we aim to It also states the percentage of shares background of our overall objective, pay in accordance with the terms of the held by the nominee for Alliance Trust seeking to achieve long term returns.
contracts, which may be the suppliers Savings customers, who retain voting As part of our continuing evaluation we own terms.
The Group has not adopted rights.
consider, in an appropriate and any code or standard on payment balanced manner, companies activities practice.
The Group anticipates no Major Shareholders Holdings and management and also view them in change in its purchasing practices in Ordinary stock units as at 15 March 2006 a wider context, including the impact of the current financial year.
public issues such as social and Alliance Trust Savings Limited At 31 January 2006 the Company had no 8,997,708 17.85% environmental matters.
ATS, its principal have relevance to the current and operating subsidiary, had trade DC Thomson & Co Limited prospective value of investments.
creditors equivalent to 26 8 days of 3,241,503 6.43% average purchases.
Voting The Standard Life Assurance Company 1,739,553 3.45% Corporate Social Responsibility It is the Company's policy to exercise, wherever practical, its vote at meetings Barclays PLC In carrying out our activities and in our 1,611,511 3.20% of companies in which it owns shares.
relationships with our employees, We may engage in dialogue with the suppliers and community, we aim to Legal & General Investment company on particular issues and, if not conduct ourselves responsibly, ethically Management Limited satisfied, may vote against the and fairly.
1,518,366 3.01% Matching awards Matching Date of Price Date Date of under SMEIP Awards Grant Exerciseable Exerciseable Expiry Alan Harden 1694 09-Jun-05 1 total consideration 09-Jun-08 09-Sep-08 David Deards 894 09-Jun-05 1 total consideration 09-Jun-08 09-Sep-08 Sheila Ruckley 796 09-Jun-05 1 total consideration 09-Jun-08 09-Sep-08 Alan Young 1016 09-Jun-05 1 total consideration 09-Jun-08 09-Sep-08 Note Matching awards are made by share options.
The options listed above comprise the maximum number of shares to which the Executive Director may become entitled depending upon achievement of the long term targets set within the plan.
In the event that the targets are not met the number of options which may be exerciseable may be nil.
Corporate governance 16 recommendation of the board of a any time the financial position of the Accountability and company in which we hold an investment.
parent company and enable them to Audit Any proposal to vote against the ensure that its financial statements recommendation of the board of the comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Responsibility for company in which the shares are held They have general responsibility for the Accounts taking such steps as are reasonably requires the approval of an executive director.
Decisions to vote against such The directors are responsible for open to them to safeguard the assets of preparing the Report and Accounts and the group and to prevent and detect recommendations are reported to the Company and group financial the board.
statements in accordance with Under applicable law and regulations, applicable law and regulations.
the directors are also responsible for Company law requires the directors to preparing a Directors Report, Directors Compliance with the prepare Company and group financial Remuneration Report and the Code of Best Practice statements for each financial year.
Corporate Governance Statement that Under that law they are required to comply with that law and those prepare the group financial statements regulations.
Pages 10-17 of this report, together in accordance with IFRS as adopted by with the directors remuneration report The directors are responsible for the the EU and have elected to prepare on pages 18-20, disclose the application maintenance and integrity of the Company financial statements on the by the Company of the Combined Code corporate and financial information same basis.
on Corporate Governance, as required included on the companys website.
The Company and the group financial by the UK Listing Authority.
Legislation in the UK governing the statements are required by law and preparation and dissemination of The board reports that during the year IFRS as adopted by the EU to present financial statements may differ from fairly the financial position of the to 31 January 2006 it has complied with legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company and the group and the the provisions of the revised Combined performance for that period: the Code on Corporate Governance issued Audit Committee Companies Act 1985 provides in relation by the Financial Reporting Council in to such financial statements that July 2003 except in the following The Audit Committee's duties include references in the relevant part of that respects.
There was no insurance cover reviewing and reporting to the board on: Act to financial statements giving a true in place in respect of legal action and fair view are references to their The annual and interim financial against the Companys directors until 9 achieving a fair presentation.
statements and the accounts, June 2005.
From 29 April 2005, when together with the form of proposed In preparing each of the Company and William Berry retired from the board, announcements and reports relating the group financial statements, the there were four executive and four nonto the Company's financial directors are required to: executive directors until the performance.
appointment of Clare Salmon as a select suitable accounting policies The integrity and effectiveness of director on 17 June 2005.
As previously and then apply them consistently: accounting and financial controls announced Clare Salmon vacated office make judgments and estimates that and the system of internal control.
on 17 August 2005 by operation of are reasonable and prudent: Section 291 of the Companies Act by The Committee has a specific function state whether they have been reason of not having acquired her to review the scope and effectiveness of prepared in accordance with IFRSs qualification shares before that date and the audits which are carried out by the as adopted by the EU: and was re-appointed as a director on external and internal auditors.
It prepare the financial statements on 14 September 2005.
Accordingly, during reviews the independence and the going concern basis unless it is the periods that Clare Salmon was not a objectivity of the external auditors, inappropriate to presume that the director, after the retirement of William supervises the function of the internal Company and group will continue in Berry there was an equality in number audit department and facilitates the business.
of executive and non-executive directors work of both the external and internal and, excluding the Chairman, less than The directors are responsible for auditors.
It reviews any non-audit half of the board members were keeping proper accounting records that services provided by the external independent non-executives.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at auditor.
In 2004 the Committee put the 17 external audit out to tender.
The board to Gordon McQueen, Lesley Knox and Clear authorisation limits now recommends to shareholders, as it Christopher Masters.
Once revised risk Separation of duties did after the tender process, that KPMG processes had been embedded in the A rolling internal audit programme Audit Plc should be reappointed as Groups operations the Risk Review auditor.
Committee was dissolved and responsibility for monitoring the risk Investment Risk andFinancial The Audit Committee is also a forum management function and processes Instruments where any member of staff may, in returned to the Audit Committee.
The confidence, raise matters of concern Risk is inherent in all forms of executive Risk Management Committee about possible improprieties in matters investment which aim to give a financial continues to meet regularly.
such as financial reporting, and it has return.
We seek to manage this risk the power to investigate any matters primarily through a judicious choice of Internal Control raised.
investments diversified across different business sectors and economies.
The board is responsible for the The Audit Committee members are Notwithstanding diversification, in the Companys system of internal control.
A Gordon McQueen Chairman, short term the aggregate valuation of robust system of internal control fits into Christopher Masters and Clare Salmon.
these investments is subject to the framework of risk management.
The William Jack was a member until 29 considerable fluctuation in response to board confirms that procedures which April 2005.
William Berry was a member changes in, for example, inflation, accord with the guidance published in until his retirement from the board.
interest rates, currency exchange rates 1999 the Turnbull guidance for compliance with principle C of the and market sentiment.
Cumulative Risk Management Combined Code internal control have effects of dividend income and its reinvestment, along with long term been in place for the year under review A key responsibility of the board is to and continue to be in place.
growth, can compensate for short term understand the nature and extent of the fluctuations in capital value.
risks which are inherent in carrying out The board reviews annually the scope the Groups business.
and effectiveness of the system for The Company does not engage in internal control.
This includes the trading activity itself, although it invests The board has approved a risk in companies that trade.
The Company consideration of financial, operational management policy for the Group.
We and compliance controls as well as of may borrow and may make use of continue to improve our processes to significant business risks and any financial instruments and derivatives in identify and evaluate risks and to changes in the nature and extent of order to enhance returns or to mitigate demonstrate that risks are managed on those risks since the last review.
Borrowing, financial instruments a basis that does not compromise and derivatives carry their own risks, compliance with statute and regulatory No system of internal control can give which must be managed effectively.
provision or adherence to good business an absolute assurance against During the last financial year, the management.
Central to the risk misstatement or loss.
It should prevent Companys only borrowings or use of management framework is embedding or detect areas of shortcoming and financial derivatives were its long term an understanding of risk and ensuring minimise the risk of loss through debentures, which were repaid in May that staff take responsibility for the incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake 2005, and US $97.5 million borrowing management of risk in the areas for or fraud.
referred to in the Financial results on which they are responsible.
The main control mechanisms in place page 7.
During 2004 a non-executive Risk include: Review Committee was formed and an Separation of the roles of Chairman executive Risk Management Committee, By order of the Board and Chief Executive on the board which reports to the Chief Executive, Ian Goddard, Company Secretary was established.
Strong non-executive directors and Dundee, 17 March 2006 a robust Audit Committee and Risk The Risk Review Committee was set up Management Committee to enhance the risk management function during a period of substantial Clear departmental structures, business change.
The members were backed up by inter-departmental William Jack Chairman in succession support functions
