NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 28 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance at a glance page 1.
Board of Directors role and responsibilities and key activities in 2006 29 4.
Board of Directors composition, structure and process 30 4.1 Membership 31 4.2 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors 31 4.3 Independence 33 4.4 Terms of appointment 35 4.5 Induction and training 35 4.6 Independent advice 35 4.7 Remuneration 35 4.8 Share ownership and dealing 35 4.9 Chairman 35 4.10 Senior Independent Director 35 4.11 Company Secretary 35 4.12 Meetings 35 5.
Board of Directors review, re-election and renewal 35 5.1 Review 35 5.2 Re-election 36 5.3 Renewal 36 6.
Management 36 6.1 Office of the Chief Executive 36 6.2 Other management committees 37 7. Business conduct 40 8.
Board Committees 40 8.1 Risk and Audit Committee report 40 8.2 Remuneration Committee report 43 8.3 Nomination Committee report 43 8.4 Sustainability Committee report 43 9.
Conformance with corporate governance standards 43 28 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 29 1.
Governance at BHP Billiton Officer CEO to the Annual General Meeting, a summary of the proceedings of the meeting and the outcome of voting on the items of business are posted to the website following the meeting.
BHP Billitons corporate objective is: to create long-term value through the discovery, development and conversion of natural 3.
Board of Directors role and responsibilities and key resources and the provision of innovative customer and marketactivities in 2006 focused solutions.
3.1 Role and responsibilities In pursuing the Corporate Objective, we have committed to the highest level of governance and strive to foster a culture that The role of the Board is to represent the shareholders and to values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and promote and protect the interests of BHP Billiton.
It does so by corporate integrity and respect for others.
Our approach to governance is predicated A copy of the Guide The Board has published a Board on the belief that there is a link between can be found at The Board Governance Governance Document, which is a high-quality governance and the creation www.
com Document can be statement of the practices and processes of shareholder value.
Our expectations of aboutus governance.
found at the Board has adopted to discharge its www.
com our employees and those to whom we responsibilities.
It includes the processes aboutus governance.
contract business are set out in our Guide to Business Conduct.
the Board has implemented to undertake This Statement outlines BHP Billitons system of governance.
its own tasks and activities: the matters it Shareholders are reminded that BHP Billiton operates as a single has reserved for its own consideration and decision-making: the economic entity under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure with a authority it has delegated to the CEO, including the limits on the unified Board and management.
It has primary listings in Australia way in which the CEO can execute that authority: and provides and the UK and is registered in the US and listed on the New York guidance on the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
In formulating our governance framework, the regulatory requirements in Australia, the UK and the US have The Board has specifically reserved the following matters for been taken into account, together with prevailing standards of best its decision: practice.
Where governance principles vary across these jurisdictions, appointments to the position of CEO and approval of as they inevitably do, the Directors have resolved to adopt what they appointments of executives reporting to the CEO consider to be the better of the prevailing standards.
approval of strategy and annual budgets determination of matters in accordance with the approvals 2.
Shareholders framework The Board of BHP Billiton represents the shareholders who, in turn, formal determinations that are required by the Groups elect its members.
Shareholders vote on important matters affecting constitutional documents, by statute or by other external the Group, including changes to the Groups constitutional regulation.
documents, the receipt of annual financial statements and incentive arrangements for executive Directors.
The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional documents The Board recognises that in order to vote in an informed and the law.
manner, shareholders must receive high-quality, relevant Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to information in a timely manner.
achieve the Corporate Objective to the CEO, who is free to take all decisions and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are reasonable To safeguard the effective dissemination having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
The limits are of information, BHP Billiton has developed A copy of this Policy published in the Board Governance Document.
The CEO remains a Market Disclosure and Communications is available at accountable to the Board for the authority that is delegated to him, Policy.
The Policy outlines how BHP Billiton www.
com and for the performance of the Group.
The Board monitors the identifies and distributes information to aboutus governance.
decisions and actions of the CEO and the performance of the shareholders and market participants.
Group to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the Copies of announcements to the stock Announcements Corporate Objective, within the limits it has imposed.
The Board also exchanges on which BHP Billiton is listed, and other relevant monitors the performance of the Group through its Committees.
information can investor briefings, half yearly financial Reports from each of the Committees are set out in section 8. be found at statements, the Annual Report and other www.
relevant information are posted to the The CEO is required to report systematically in a spirit of openness Groups website.
and trust on the progress being made by the Groups businesses.
Any person wishing to Shareholders are encouraged to make receive advice by email their views known to the Group and to The Board and its Committees determines the information of Group news releases raise directly any matters of concern.
required from the CEO, any employee of the Group or any external can subscribe at The Chairman has regular meetings with www.
Open dialogue between individual shareholders to discuss governance members of the Board and the CEO and other employees is matters and keeps the Board informed encouraged to enable Directors to gain a better understanding of of the views and concerns that have been Questions can be the Groups businesses.
Directors are encouraged to participate in registered prior to the raised.
From time to time the Group will debate and to bring independent judgement to bear on matters meeting by completing enter into dialogue with shareholders to being considered.
The Board believes that constructive differences the relevant form share views on matters of interest.
accompanying the of opinion lead to more robust evaluation of the issues and, notice of meeting or by Shareholders are encouraged to attend ultimately, better outcomes.
emailing the Group at Annual General Meetings and to use this investor.
relations@ 3.2 Key activities during the year opportunity to ask questions.
that have been lodged ahead of the During the course of the year the Board arranged for an independent meeting, and the answers to them, are external review of its performance, structure and membership, the posted to the website.
The External Auditor attends the Annual restructuring of the Sustainability Committee and the adoption of General Meetings and is available to answer questions.
revised terms of reference for Board Committees.
The Board considered major business decisions, including capital projects and Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically through the capital management strategies.
Its regular skills review and process website.
The notice of meeting describes how this can be done.
of renewal led to the appointment of three new non-executive Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important Group Directors and two new executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied briefings are broadcast live from the Groups website.
Copies of that it has discharged its obligations as set out in the Board the speeches delivered by the Chairman and Chief Executive Governance Document.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 29 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 30 Board of Directors Don Argus Charles Goodyear Paul Anderson David Brink John Buchanan Carlos Cordeiro David Crawford Gail fide Planque David Jenkins Marius Kloppers Chris Lynch Jacques Nasser Miklos Salamon John Schubert Karen Wood Company Secretary 30 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 31 4.
Board of Directors composition, structure and process This section outlines how the Board has structured itself to best fulfil its role.
4.1 Membership The Board currently has 14 members.
Of these, 10, including the Chairman, are non-executive Directors.
All of the 10 non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement.
Further information on the process for assessing independence is provided in section 4.3 below.
The names and biographical details of the Directors are set out below.
4.2 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors Other directorships and offices current and recent : Don Argus AO, SFFIN, FCPA, 68 Chairman of Brambles Industries Ltd since September 1999 and a Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since November 1996 and Director since May 1999 Chairman since April 1999.
Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Chairman of Brambles Industries Plc and a Director since August 2001 Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Argus was last re-elected in 2004 and is Director of Australian Foundation Investment Company Ltd since May standing for re-election in 2006.
1999 Independent: Yes Former Director of Southcorp Limited from May 1999 until August 2003 Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Skills and experience: Don Argus has considerable experience in Aktiengesellschaft since April 2000 international business and a strong management background.
He has Member of International Advisory Committee to the New York Stock more than 40 years experience in the banking industry and is a former Exchange Board of Directors since November 2005 Managing Director and CEO of the National Australia Bank Limited.
Board Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Group as Chief Financial Officer CFO in 1999.
He was previously Charles Goodyear BSc, MBA, FCPA, 48 President of Goodyear Capital Corporation and Executive Vice President Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since and CFO of Freeport-McMoRan Inc. November 2001.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer CEO in January 2003.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Mr Goodyear was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or subject to re-election in 2006.
Member of the International Council of Mining and Metals Member of the United States National Petroleum Council Independent: No Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: Charles Goodyear has extensive experience in None finance, corporate restructuring and mergers and acquisitions.
He joined Paul Anderson B S Mech Eng, MBA, 61 Corporation and has more than 20 years experience at Duke Energy and its predecessors.
Term of office: Appointed a non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited Other directorships and offices current and recent : and BHP Billiton Plc on 26 April 2006 with effect from 6 June 2006.
Mr Chairman of Duke Energy Corporation since November 2003 and Anderson will seek election at the 2006 Annual General Meetings.
He was former CEO from November 2003 to April 2006 the CEO and Managing Director of BHP Limited from December 1998 until Director of Qantas Airways Limited since September 2002 June 2001 and of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from June 2001 Former Director of Temple Inland Inc from February 2002 to May 2004 until July 2002.
He was a non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited Former Director of Fluor Corporation from March to October 2003 and BHP Billiton Plc from July to November 2002.
Member of the US Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Independent: Yes.
Refer to comments in section 4.3.
Technology Skills and experience: Paul Anderson has an extensive background in Board Committee membership: natural resources and energy and, as one of the architects of the merger Member of the Sustainability Committee that created BHP Billiton, has a deep understanding of the strategy behind the Groups success.
He is Chairman of the Board of Duke Energy Other directorships and offices current and recent : David Brink MSc Eng Mining, D Com hc, 67 Chairman of Unitrans Limited since November 1997 Term of office: Director of Billiton Plc since June 1997.
Director of Deputy Chairman of ABSA Bank Limited and ABSA Group Limited BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Dr Brink was since April 1992 last re-elected in 2003 and is standing for re-election in 2006.
Director of Sanlam Limited from January 1994 until June 2006 Independent: Yes Director of Sappi Limited since March 1994 Former Director of Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd from July 1984 until Skills and experience: David Brink brings considerable mining and December 2003 finance experience to the Group.
He has over 20 years experience in the Vice President of the South African Institute of Directors mining industry, in particular shaft sinking, tunnelling and exploration contracting, followed by 12 years as the CEO of a major listed Board Committee membership: construction, engineering and manufacturing conglomerate.
Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Risk and Audit Committee He is a former executive Director and Group CFO of BP, Treasurer and Chief John Buchanan BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 63 Executive of BP Finance, and Chief Operating Officer of BP Chemicals.
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003.
Dr Buchanan has been designated as the Senior Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc since April 2006 and Deputy Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc since his appointment.
He was last re-elected by shareholders in 2003 and is standing for re-election in Chairman from February 2005 to April 2006 Director of AstraZeneca Plc since April 2002 2006.
Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Independent: Yes Plc since July 2006 and Director since April 2003 Skills and experience: John Buchanan has had a wide international Former Director of Boots Plc from December 1997 until July 2003 business career gained in large and complex international businesses.
Board Committee membership: He has substantial experience in the petroleum industry and knowledge Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the UK and international investor community.
He has held various Member of the Nomination Committee leadership roles in strategic, financial, operational and marketing positions, including executive experience in different countries.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 31 Pt2 12 09 06. qxd 12 09 06 12:15 PM Page 32 Board of Directors continued Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 50 He was previously Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Other directorships and offices current and recent : February 2005.
Mr Cordeiro was elected in 2005 and is not subject to Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc since December re-election in 2006.
2001 Independent: Yes Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia since June 2000 Skills and experience: Carlos Cordeiro brings to the Board more than Board Committee membership: 20 years experience in providing strategic and financial advice to Member of the Remuneration Committee corporations, financial institutions and governments around the world.
David Crawford BComm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, FAICD, 62 the purposes of the US Securities and Exchange Commission Rules and is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience for the Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since May 1994.
Director of purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys Combined Code.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Crawford Other directorships and offices current and recent : was last re-elected in 2005 and, in accordance with the Groups policy Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited since May 2003 and described under Tenure in section 4.3 below, is retiring and standing for Director since July 2001 re-election in 2006.
Director of Fosters Group Limited since August 2001 Independent: Yes Director of Westpac Banking Corporation since May 2002 Skills and experience: David Crawford has extensive experience in risk Former Chairman of National Foods Limited Director from November management and business reorganisation.
He has acted as a consultant, 2001 until June 2005 scheme manager, receiver and manager and liquidator to very large and Board Committee membership: complex groups of companies.
He was previously Australian National Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee Chairman of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
The Board has nominated Mr Crawford as the financial expert of the Risk and Audit Committee for Other directorships and offices current and recent : Gail fide Planque AB Mathematics, MS Physics, PhD Env Health Sciences, 61 Director of TXU Corp since February 2004 Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Director of Northeast Utilities since October 1995 19 October 2005.
The Hon E G fide Planque was elected in 2005 and is not Director of Landauer Inc since December 2001 retiring or subject to re-election in 2006.
President of Strategy Matters Inc since March 2000 Independent: Yes Director of Energy Strategists Consultancy Ltd since May 1999 Former Director of BNFL Plc from November 2000 to March 2005 and Skills and experience: Gail fide Planque is an expert in nuclear technology of BNG America Inc from March 1995 to March 2006 and has over 30 years experience as a physicist, adviser and regulator in the field of nuclear energy.
She also has significant experience as a nonBoard Committee membership: executive Director of global energy companies and is a consultant on Member of the Sustainability Committee atomic energy matters.
She is a former Commissioner of the United States Member of the Remuneration Committee Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a former Director of the Environmental Measurements Laboratory of the US Department of Energy and a Fellow and former President of the American Nuclear Society.
Advisory Council of Consort Resources and Chairman of the Energy David Jenkins BA, PhD Geology, 67 Advisory Panel of Science Applications International Corporation.
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since March 2000.
Director of Other directorships and offices current and recent : BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Dr Jenkins Director of Chartwood Resources Ltd since November 1998 was last re-elected in 2005 and is not subject to re-election in 2006.
Director of Orion International Oil & Gas Ltd since March 2005 Independent: Yes Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: David Jenkins is a recognised authority on oil and Member of the Remuneration Committee gas technology.
He was previously Chief Geologist, Director Technology Member of the Risk and Audit Committee and Chief Technology Advisor to BP Plc.
He was also a member of the Technology Advisory Committee of the Halliburton Company and the resources industry since 1993, he was appointed Chief Commercial Officer Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 44 in December 2003.
He was previously Chief Marketing Officer, Group Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held January 2006.
Appointed Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and various positions at Billiton Aluminium, including Chief Operating Officer executive Director in January 2006 and was previously Chief Commercial and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Mr Kloppers will seek election at the 2006 Annual General Meetings.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : None Independent: No Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: Marius Kloppers has extensive knowledge of the None mining industry and of BHP Billitons operations.
Active in the mining and Financial Officer in September 2001.
Prior to that he held various positions Chris Lynch BComm, MBA, FCPA, 52 at Alcoa, including Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Alcoa Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Inc and Chief Financial Officer, Alcoa Europe.
Appointed Group President Carbon Steel Materials in April 2006.
Mr Lynch will seek election at the 2006 Annual General Meetings.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of Minerals Council of Australia Independent: No Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: Chris Lynch has extensive experience in finance None and knowledge of the mining industry.
He joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer of the Minerals Group in 2000 and was appointed Chief 32 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 33 Jacques Nasser AO, BBus, Hon DT, 58 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of British Sky Broadcasting Ltd since November 2002 Term of office: Appointed a non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited Director of Brambles Industries Limited and Brambles Industries Plc and BHP Billiton Plc on 26 April 2006 with effect from 6 June 2006. since March 2004 Mr Nasser will seek election at the 2006 Annual General Meetings.
Director of Quintiles Transnational Corporation since March 2004 Independent: Yes Partner of One Equity Partners since November 2002 Skills and experience: Following a 33 year career with Ford in various Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft since February 2001 leadership positions in Europe, Australia, Asia, South America and the US, Jacques Nasser served as a member of the Board of Directors and as Former Chairman of Polaroid Corporation from 2002 to 2005 President and Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Company from 1998 Board Committee membership: to 2001.
He has more than 30 years experience in large-scale global Member of the Risk and Audit Committee businesses.
stainless steel and titanium, and Group President Non-Ferrous Materials.
Miklos Mike Salamon BSc Mining Eng, MBA, 51 He was appointed Executive President in January 2006 with responsibility Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since for health, safety, the environment and communities, marketing, strategy February 2003.
Mr Salamon was last re-elected by shareholders in 2005 and business development, exploration and technology.
and is not subject to re-election in 2006.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Independent: No Chairman of Samancor Limited since October 1993 Skills and experience: Mike Salamon has extensive knowledge of the Director of Cerro Matoso SA since March 1996 mining industry and of BHP Billitons operations.
He was previously Board Committee membership: Executive Chairman of Samancor, Managing Director of Trans-Natal Coal None Corporation and Chairman of Columbus.
He was previously an executive Director of Billiton Plc with responsibilities for nickel, chrome, manganese, Other directorships and offices current and recent : John Schubert BC Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIEAust, FTSE, 63 Chairman of Commonwealth Bank of Australia since November 2004 Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director of and Director since October 1991 BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Dr Schubert was Director of Qantas Airways Limited since October 2000 last re-elected in 2004 and is seeking re-election in 2006.
Chairman of G2 Therapies Limited since November 2000 Independent: Yes Former Director of Hanson Plc from May 2000 until May 2003 Former Chairman and Director of Worley Parsons Limited from Skills and experience: John Schubert has considerable experience in the international oil industry including at CEO level.
He has had executive November 2002 until February 2005 mining and financial responsibilities and was CEO of Pioneer International Board Committee membership: Limited for six years, where he operated in the building materials industry Member of the Nomination Committee in 16 countries.
He has experience in mergers, acquisitions and Member of the Sustainability Committee divestments, project analysis and management.
He was previously Chairman and Managing Director of Esso Australia Limited and President of the Business Council of Australia.
Skills and experience: Karen Wood is a member of the Takeovers Panel Group Company Secretary Australia, the Business Regulatory Advisory Group Australia and the Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 50 JD Juris Doctor Advisory Board of the University of Melbourne.
She is a Term of office: Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a member of the Law BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Appointed Special Advisor and Head Council of Australia and the Law Institute of Victoria.
She chairs the of Group Secretariat and a member of the Office of Chief Executive in Global Ethics Panel, the Disclosure Committee and the US Disclosure December 2005.
Controls Committee of BHP Billiton.
She was previously the General Counsel and Company Secretary of Bonlac Foods Limited.
4.3 Independence The Board considers that the executive and non-executive Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and The Board considers that an appropriate balance between experience necessary to govern the Group.
The non-executive Directors contribute international and operational experience: executive and non-executive Directors is necessary to promote shareholder interests and to govern the Group effectively.
It is understanding of the economics of the sectors in which the Group operates: knowledge of world capital markets: and an committed to ensuring a majority of Directors are independent.
understanding of the health, safety, environmental and community challenges that the Group faces.
Executive Directors bring Process to determine independence additional perspectives to the Boards work through a deep The Board has developed a policy that it understanding of the Groups business.
A copy of the uses to determine the independence of its Independence Policy Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity: Directors.
This determination is carried out is available at: a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: and a annually or at any other time where the www.
com willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards of circumstances of a Director change such aboutus governance.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action as to warrant reconsideration.
is taken that places his or her interests in front of the interests of the Group.
The Independence Policy provides that to be independent a Director must be: Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes of independent of management and any business or other the Board.
Individual Directors are required to debate issues relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of openly and constructively and be free to question or challenge the objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the Director opinions of others.
or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the BHP The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the Billiton Group.
Board is comprised of high calibre individuals whose background, skills, experience and personal characteristics will augment the present Board and meet its future needs.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 33 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 34 Corporate Governance Statement continued Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent but is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying the independence test, the Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the Policy.
A summary of the factors that may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors of BHP Billiton is set out below.
Factors that may be perceived to affect independence Tenure The Board has a policy requiring non-executive Directors who have served on the Board for more than nine years.
Notwithstanding served on the Board for more than nine years to stand for annual those periods of service, the Board does not believe that any of re-election.
All Directors seeking re-election must undergo a formal those Directors has served for a period that could materially performance assessment, irrespective of the period they have interfere with their ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
For further information on the re-election All are considered to have retained independence of character and and review process, refer to section 5 of this Statement.
judgement and have not formed associations with management or others that might compromise their ability to exercise At the conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meetings, Mr Don independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
Argus, Mr David Crawford and Dr David Brink will each have Retirement plan The former Directors of BHP Limited Mr Don Argus, Mr David together with interest earned on the benefits, are held by the Crawford, Dr David Jenkins and Dr John Schubert participated in Company and will be paid on retirement.
The Board does not a retirement plan approved by shareholders in 1989.
The plan was believe that the independence of any participating Director is closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits accrued to that date, compromised as a result of this plan.
Relationships and associations Mr David Crawford was the National Chairman of KPMG in The Board considers Mr Anderson a Director of the highest calibre, Australia.
He retired in June 2001 and has no ongoing relationship bringing to its deliberations a broad range of skills derived from a with KPMG.
KPMG was a joint auditor of Billiton Plc prior to the long history in the energy sector, specific understanding and merger with BHP Limited and of BHP Billiton up to 2003 and the knowledge of the mining industry and BHP Billitons role in that sole auditor of BHP Billiton from December 2003.
The Board has industry, and the particular risks associated with a diversified considered this matter annually since the time of the merger, and mining business.
again revisited it prior to the publication of this Statement and Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in does not consider Mr Crawfords independence to be companies with which BHP Billiton has commercial relationships.
The Board considers Mr Crawfords financial acumen Those positions and companies are set out in section 4.2 of this to be important in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
All transactions between each of these Accordingly, his membership of the Board and Chairmanship of the companies and BHP Billiton have been assessed in accordance Risk and Audit Committee are considered by the Board to be with the Independence Policy and are not material.
All of these appropriate and desirable.
transactions were entered into in the usual course of BHP Billitons In June 2006, the Board reappointed Mr Paul Anderson a business and were within the scope of managements authority non-executive Director.
The Board considers Mr Anderson to under the terms of the Board Governance Document.
was not required to consider, or approve, any of these transactions.
If Board approval was required for a transaction In reaching this conclusion, the Board considered the terms of between BHP Billiton and any company with which a Director has its own Independence Policy, the principles on independence an association, then BHP Billitons protocols would apply and the contained in the UK Combined Code, the Principles of Good Director concerned would excuse himself or herself from Corporate Governance published by the Australian Stock Exchange participating in the decision.
Corporate Governance Council and the helpful guidance offered by a number of shareholder voting agencies.
The only transactions during the year that amounted to relatedparty transactions with Director-related entities under International Those principles and guidance include a range of considerations Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are the transactions between regarded as relevant in determining independence, including that BHP Billiton and the Wesfarmers Group, of which Mr Michael the Director in question has not been an executive in the past five Chaney was the Managing Director until July 2005.
This specific consideration is included in BHP Billitons own set out in note 31 to the financial statements in the Annual Report.
That Policy, like most of the principles and guidance that inform the issue, also makes clear that a Director The Board has assessed all of the relationships between BHP may be considered independent, notwithstanding the presence Billiton and the companies in which the Directors hold or held of one or more of the stated relevant considerations.
This reflects positions and concluded that in all cases the relationships do not the Boards view that a Directors independence is determined interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or more by his or her character and integrity than by past independent judgement or their ability to act in the best interests relationships or associations.
of the BHP Billiton Group.
The key issue for the Board in assessing Mr Andersons Some of the Directors hold cross-directorships.
Mr Don Argus independence was whether the fact that he had served as Chief and Mr Jacques Nasser are both directors of Brambles Industries Executive Officer until July 2002 and a non-executive Director until Limited and Brambles Industries Plc, and are both members of November 2002, on its own, was sufficient reason to classify him the International Advisory Council of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft.
The Board concluded that given the elapse Dr John Schubert and Mr Paul Anderson are both directors of of time since Mr Anderson was employed by BHP Billiton, the fact Qantas Airways Limited.
The Board has assessed each of these that he was so employed did not interfere with his objective, relationships and in all cases concluded that the relationships do unfettered or independent judgement or his ability to act in the not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or best interests of the Group.
In reaching its decision, the Board independent judgement or the Directors ability to act in the best determined that it could not form the view that the mere elapse of interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
a further relatively short period of time until the expiration of five years from his departure as an executive would make any difference to its assessment.
34 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 35 Executive Directors The four executive Directors, Mr Charles Goodyear, Mr Marius None of the executive Directors hold directorships in any other Kloppers, Mr Chris Lynch and Mr Miklos Mike Salamon, are not company included in the ASX 100 or FTSE 100. considered independent because of their executive responsibilities.
4.4 Terms of appointment Mr Argus is Chairman of Brambles Industries, a company listed on A copy of the letter the Australian and London Stock Exchanges.
The Board considers The Board has adopted a letter of is available at that neither his Chairmanship of Brambles, nor any of his other appointment that contains the terms on www.
com commitments set out on page 31 of this Annual Review, interfere which non-executive Directors will be aboutus governance.
with the discharge of his responsibilities to BHP Billiton.
The Board appointed, including the basis upon is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve BHP which they will be indemnified.
A copy of the induction program 4.5 Induction and training The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified is available at Each new non-executive Director Dr John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at short www.
com undertakes an induction program aboutus governance.
specifically tailored to their needs.
4.10 Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors participate in the Boards Training and The Board has appointed Dr John Buchanan as the Senior Development Program, which has been designed to ensure that Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Dr Buchanan is available non-executive Directors update their skills and knowledge to to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed maximise their effectiveness as Directors throughout their tenure.
through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
4.6 Independent advice 4.11 Company Secretary The Board and its Committees may seek advice from independent Ms Karen Wood is Group Company Secretary of BHP Billiton.
experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, Ms Wood is responsible for developing and maintaining the with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent information systems and processes that enable the Board to fulfil professional advice on any matter connected with the discharge of its role.
She is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board their responsibilities, at the Groups expense.
No Director availed procedures are complied with and advises the Board on governance him or herself of this right during the year.
All Directors have access to her advice and services.
4.7 Remuneration Independent advisory services are retained by her office at the request of the Board or Board Committees.
Ms Wood is supported Details of the remuneration policies and practices of the Group by Mr Robert Franklin, who is Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Plc, and the remuneration paid to the Directors executive and and Ms Jane McAloon, who is Company Secretary of BHP Billiton non-executive are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages Limited.
The Board appoints and removes the Company Secretaries.
Shareholders will be invited to consider and to approve the Remuneration Report at the 2006 Annual General Meetings.
4.12 Meetings 4.8 Share ownership and dealing The Board met seven times during the year.
Generally, meetings run for two days.
Four of those meetings were held in Australia Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent and three in the UK.
of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton Shares until they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years Attendance by Directors at Board and Board Committee meetings remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level is set out in the table in section 5.1.
The non-executive Directors of shareholding throughout their tenure.
met three times during the year in the absence of executive Directors and other executives except the Company Secretary.
Details of the Shares held by Directors are set out on pages 65 and 66 of this Annual Review.
As at the date of this Annual Review, all Members of the Office of the Chief Executive OCE and other of the Directors had met this requirement.
members of senior management attend meetings of the Board by invitation.
BHP Billiton has a Securities Dealing Code that covers dealings in securities by 5.
Board of Directors review, re-election and renewal A copy of the Directors and senior executives.
Directors Securities Dealing 5.1 Review and senior executives must not deal in Code can be viewed at Shares or other securities of BHP Billiton The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board www.
com during designated prohibited periods and aboutus governance.
membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
at any time that they have unpublished Contemporary performance measures are considered an important price sensitive information.
All dealings by Directors in BHP Billiton securities are reported to The Board regularly evaluates the performance of the Board as a the Board and to the stock exchanges.
whole, its Committees, the Chairman, individual Directors and the governance processes that support Board work.
4.9 Chairman The performance of the Board is reviewed each year.
That review The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, is considered by the Board to be focuses on individual Directors and the Board as a whole in independent.
He was appointed Chairman of BHP Limited in 1999 alternate years.
The Board assesses the performance of the and has been Chairman of the Group since 2001.
Committees on an annual basis.
The Chairman leads the Board and facilitates its work.
He is Performance of individual Directors is assessed against a range of responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of the dimensions including the ability of the Director to consistently take Board are maintained, including the provision of accurate, timely the perspective of creating shareholder value: to contribute to the and clear information.
He encourages debate and constructive development of strategy, to understand the major risks affecting criticism.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and Company the Group: to provide clear direction to management: to contribute Secretary, sets agendas for meetings of the Board that focus on to Board cohesion: to commit the time required to fulfil the role: the strategic direction and performance of the Group.
He commits and to listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and to and leads Board and individual Director performance members of management.
The Chairman has authority to speak and act for the The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on the Board and to represent the Board to shareholders.
He also Chairmans performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert.
presents shareholders views to the Board and facilitates the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 35 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 36 Corporate Governance Statement continued Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2006 Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability A B A B A B A B A B 1 Paul Anderson 1 1 Don Argus 7 7 6 6 David Brink 7 7 8 7 4 4 John Buchanan 7 7 6 5 6 6 2 Michael Chaney 4 4 3 Carlos Cordeiro 7 7 3 3 David Crawford 7 7 8 8 4 E Gail fide Planque 5 4 1 1 2 2 Charles Goodyear 7 6 1 1 David Jenkins 7 7 8 8 6 6 5 Marius Kloppers 3 3 5 Chris Lynch 3 3 1 Jacques Nasser 1 1 1 0 2 Lord Renwick of Clifton 4 3 2 2 3 3 Mike Salamon 7 6 1 1 John Schubert 7 7 6 6 4 4 2 2 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
1 Paul Anderson and Jacques Nasser appointed 6 June 2006.
2 Michael Chaney and Lord Renwick of Clifton retired 25 November 2005.
3 Carlos Cordeiro attended all meetings during the period, including one meeting by invitation.
4 Gail fide Planque appointed 19 October 2005.
5 Marius Kloppers and Chris Lynch appointed 1 January 2006.
Includes two meetings held by teleconference.
5.2 Re-election When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position The Board has determined that non-executive Directors who have specification that is provided to an independent recruitment served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of organisation retained to conduct a global search.
In addition to the their first election must stand for re-election annually from the first specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the Annual General Meeting after the expiration of their current term.
specification contains criteria such as a proven track record of At least one third of the remaining Directors retire at each Annual creating shareholder value: unquestioned integrity: a commitment General Meeting.
Directors are not appointed for a fixed term but to the highest standards of governance: having the required time must submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after three available to devote to the job: a clear grasp of strategic thinking: years.
The period that Directors have served on the Board and the an awareness of market leadership: outstanding monitoring skills: years in which they were first appointed and last elected are set a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: and an out in section 4.2. independent point of view.
Retiring Directors who are Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal shareholders for election at the first Annual General Meeting overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Management Following that appraisal, the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, makes a determination as to whether it The CEO holds delegated authority from the Board to achieve the will endorse a retiring Director for re-election.
The Board will not Corporate Objective, save for those matters the Board has retained endorse a Director for re-election if his or her performance is not for its own decision-making set out in section 3.
In devolving that considered satisfactory.
The Board will advise shareholders in the authority, the CEO has developed an Approvals Framework that notice of meeting whether or not re-election is supported.
delegates authority to Committees and individual members of management.
Notwithstanding those further delegations, the Directors cannot be reappointed if they have reached the age of CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority delegated 70 years, unless that appointment is approved by shareholders in to him.
the form of a special resolution.
A Director so appointed must retire at the next Annual General Meeting.
6.1 Office of the Chief Executive The CEO has established the Office of the Chief Executive OCE to 5.3 Renewal assist him in exercising his authority.
The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance of the Nomination Committee.
In so doing, the Board: The role of the OCE is to provide advice to the CEO on matters considers the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to that are strategic and long term in nature or have the potential allow it to meet the strategic vision for the Group to significantly impact the Group.
assesses the skills, knowledge and experience currently represented It determines key Group-wide policies including the Charter, Guide identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately to Business Conduct, the Sustainable Development Policy, the represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a Human Resources Strategy and the Enterprise-Wide Risk candidate is selected that brings those traits Management Policy.
reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
36 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:56 AM Page 37 The members of the OCE are: improvement activities, implement Group-wide policy as determined by the OCE, provide direction and priorities for the Chip Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Groups support functions and participate in strategy development.
Chair John Fast, Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs The FRMC monitors the Groups financial risk management policies and exposures and approves financial transactions within the Robert Kirkby, Executive President scope of its authority.
The IRC oversees the management approval Marius Kloppers, Group President, Non-Ferrous Materials and processes for major investments, which are designed to ensure executive Director that investments are aligned to the Groups agreed strategies and Chris Lynch, Group President Carbon Steel Materials and values: risks are identified and evaluated: investments are fully executive Director optimised to produce the maximum shareholder value within an Marcus Randolph, Chief Organisation Development Officer acceptable risk framework: and appropriate risk management Mike Salamon, Executive President and executive Director strategies are pursued.
Alex Vanselow, Chief Financial Officer The members of the Executive Committee are: Karen Wood, Special Advisor and Head of Group Secretariat Robert Kirkby, Executive President Chair J Michael Yeager, Group President Energy Ian Ashby, President and Chief Operating Officer, WA Iron Ore Mr Mike Salamon will retire from the Group on 26 October 2006 Peter Beaven, President Manganese and Mr Bob Kirkby on 31 December 2006.
Mr Philip Aiken, Alberto Calderon, President Diamonds and Specialty Products President UK, has retired from the OCE and will retire from the Diego Hernandez, President Base Metals Group on 31 December 2006.
Graeme Hunt, President Aluminium Marius Kloppers, Group President, Non-Ferrous Materials and 6.2 Other management committees executive Director The CEO draws on the work of other Committees, including the Chris Lynch, Group President Carbon Steel Materials and Executive Committee, Financial Risk Management Committee executive Director FRMC and the Investment Risk Committee IRC.
During the year Rebecca McDonald, President Gas and Power the roles of the Executive and Operating Committees were David Murray, President Metallurgical Coal reviewed and a single new Executive Committee was formed.
Chris Pointon, President Stainless Steel Materials The purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the CEO to Tom Schutte, President Marketing increase the value of the Group by achieving agreed operational Mahomed Seedat, President Energy Coal outcomes consistent with the Corporate Objective.
J Michael Yeager, Group President Energy The names and biographical details of members of the OCE and The Committees role is to provide feedback and advice to the Executive Committee are set out below.
CEO on operational issues, provide leadership by identifying and addressing Group-wide operating issues, prioritise Group Charles Goodyear BSc, MBA, FCPA, 48 Ian R Ashby BEng Mining Melbourne University, 48 Chief Executive Officer and executive Director President and Chief Operating Officer, WA Iron Ore Chairman of the OCE Member of the Executive Committee Charles Goodyear joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer in 1999.
Ian Ashby joined the group in 1987.
He was appointed President and He was appointed to the Boards of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Chief Operating Officer WA Iron Ore in March 2005 and a member of the Plc in November 2001 and as Chief Executive Officer in January 2003.
Prior to that he had worked in He previously held positions of Chief Development Officer and of Chief numerous roles in the Base Metals group including Vice President and Financial Officer.
He is a former President of Goodyear Capital Corporation Chief Operating Officer 2003-04, Vice President Joint Ventures and Work and former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Out Assets 2002-03, and Project Director Escondida Phase 4 Expansion Freeport-McMoRan Inc, and has extensive financial, corporate 2001-02.
He has worked in broad range of operating and project roles restructuring and merger and acquisition experience.
He is a Member across the Group.
He is a Vice President of the Chamber of Minerals and of ICMM and the National Petroleum Council.
Peter Beaven BAcc, Chartered Accountant South Africa, 39 Alberto Calderon PhD Econ, M Phil Econ Yale University, JD Law, BA Econ Andes University, 46 President Manganese President Diamonds and Specialty Products Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Executive Committee Peter Beaven joined the Group in 2002.
He was appointed President Manganese in October 2005 and appointed a member of the Executive Alberto Calderon joined the Group as President Diamonds and Specialty Committee in December 2005.
He was previously Vice President Strategy Products in February 2006.
Prior to this, he was President of Cerrejn Coal and Business Development for Carbon Steel Materials.
Prior to this he was Company from July 2002.
His previous positions include President of executive Director in the Investment Banking division at UBS.
Previously, Ecopetrol, General Manager of the Power Company of Bogota and various he worked at BHP being responsible for various disposals, mergers and senior roles in investment banking and in the Colombian Government.
acquisition projects, having joined BHP from Dresdner Kleinwort Bensons Investment Banking Division in London.
John Fast BEc Hons, LLB Hons, FFin, 56 Diego Hernandez Civil Mining Engineer, Ecole Nationale Suprieure des Mines fide Paris, 57 Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs President Base Metals Member of the OCE, Investment Risk Committee and Disclosure Committee Member of the Executive Committee John Fast joined the Group as Vice President and Chief Legal Counsel in December 1999 and was appointed Head of Asset Protection in July 2001 Diego Hernandez joined the Group as President Base Metals in April 2004. and Head of External Affairs Government Relations in January 2003.
Chairman of Escondida, he was previously executive Director, CVRD Non He is a Director of the Medical Research Foundation for Women and Babies Ferrous Division and has extensive experience in the resources sector in Australia, Chairman of the Rotary Indigenous Australian Tertiary South America.
His previous positions include President and Chief Scholarship Advisory Board, a member of the Takeovers Panel Australia, Executive Officer Compaa Minera Collahuasi, Technical Director Rio Tinto a member of the Strategic Advisory Board to The University of Melbourne Brazil, Chief Executive Officer Minera Mantos Blancos, and a number of Law Schools Graduate Program, Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of management roles in Anglo American South America.
Australasia, a member of the Markets Policy Group of that Institute, and a member of the Law Institute of Victoria, a member of the General Counsel 100 UK and a member of the Corporate Counsel Advisory Committee of the Metropolitan Corporate Counsel USA.
Before joining BHP Billiton, he was the Senior Commercial Partner at the law firm Arnold Bloch Leibler.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 37 Pt2 12 09 06. qxd 12 09 06 12:16 PM Page 38 Corporate Governance Statement continued Charles Goodyear Ian R Ashby Peter Beaven Alberto Calderon John Fast Diego Hernandez Graeme Hunt Robert Kirkby Marius Kloppers Chris Lynch Rebecca McDonald David Dave Murray Chris Pointon Marcus Randolph Miklos Mike Salamon Tom Schutte Mahomed Seedat Alex Vanselow Karen Wood J Michael Yeager Graeme Hunt BMet, MBA, FAusIMM, London Business School Senior Executive Robert Kirkby BE Civil Hons, Harvard Business School Advanced Programme, 49 Management Program, 59 President Aluminium Executive President Member of the Executive Committee Chairman of the Executive Committee and member of the OCE Graeme Hunt joined the Group in 1975 and was appointed President Robert Kirkby joined the Group in 1978 and was appointed Group Aluminium in April 2006.
He was previously President Iron Ore, President President Carbon Steel Materials in March 2004 and Executive President in Western Australia Iron Ore, Vice President Portfolio Restructuring Strategy April 2006.
He was previously President Carbon Steel Materials, Chief BHP Corporate, Group General Manager BHP Manganese, and General Operating Officer, BHP Minerals, President BHP Steelmaking and Energy, Manager Port Kembla Coal Terminal Ltd.
Prior to this he held roles in the Group General Manager and Chief Executive Officer BHP Coal, Group Transport and Steel divisions of the Group.
General Manager and Chief Operating Officer of various divisions in BHP Steel, and General Manager Newman-BHP Minerals.
Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 44 Chris Lynch BComm, MBA, FCPA, 52 Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and executive Director Group President Carbon Steel Materials and executive Director Member of the OCE, Executive Committee, Financial Risk Management Member of the OCE and Executive Committee Committee and Investment Risk Committee Chris Lynch joined the Group in 2000 as Chief Financial Officer of the Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources industry Minerals Group and was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September since 1993 and was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in December 2001, executive Director in January 2006 and Group President Carbon 2003.
He was previously Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Steel Materials in April 2006.
He was Vice President and Chief Information Billiton Plc, Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various Officer for Alcoa Inc based in Pittsburgh, US, and Chief Financial Officer, positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating Officer Alcoa Europe located in Lausanne, Switzerland.
He was also Managing and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
His previous career was Director KAAL Australia Ltd, a joint venture company formed by Alcoa Inc as a consultant with McKinsey Inc. and Kobe Steel, Manager Financial Risk and Treasury Operations for Alcoa Inc in Pittsburgh, US, and Corporate Accounting Manager at Alcoa of Australia Ltd. 38 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Pt2 12 09 06. qxd 12 09 06 12:16 PM Page 39 Rebecca McDonald BSc, 54 David Dave Murray BSc Civil Engineering University of Natal, South Africa: Post Grad Dip Mining, University of Pretoria, South Africa: Advanced Executive President Gas and Power Program UNISA, 51 Member of the Executive Committee President Metallurgical Coal Rebecca McDonald joined the Group as President Gas and Power in March Member of the Executive Committee 2004.
She was previously President of the Houston Museum of Natural Science, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Enron Global Assets after From 1978 until 1999 David Murray worked for the Trans-Natal Coal a long career at Amoco, where her last role was President and Chief Corporation Ingwe Coal Corporation, progressing through various Executive Officer of Amoco Energy Development Company.
She is an operational, project and managerial positions.
In 1993 he was appointed independent Director of Granite Construction and BOC Group.
Managing Director Trans-Natal Coal Corporation then appointed Chief Executive of Billiton Coal in 1999.
He moved to Australia in 2001 as CEO of the newly formed BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance.
In 2005, he moved into his current role as President Metallurgical Coal within Carbon Steel Materials.
Chris Pointon BSc Chemistry & Earth Sciences, PhD Geology, 58 Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA Harvard Business School, 50 President Stainless Steel Materials Chief Organisation Development Officer Member of the Executive Committee Member of the OCE Chris Pointon was appointed President Stainless Steel Materials in June Marcus Randolph was previously President, Diamonds and Specialty 2001.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer, Nickel and Chrome for Products, Chief Development Officer Minerals and Chief Strategic Officer Billiton Plc and Managing Director of QNI Ltd.
He has over 20 years of Minerals for BHP Billiton.
His prior career includes Chief Executive Officer, global experience as a mining executive, in particular in senior First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, Rio Tinto Plc, Director management in Nickel since 1996. of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, General Manager Corporacion Minera Nor Peru.
Asarco Inc, and various mine operating positions in the US with Asarco Inc. Miklos Mike Salamon BSc Mining Engineering, MBA, 51 Tom Schutte CA SA CAISA, Certificate in the Theory of Accountancy, BComm Hons, Accountancy, BComm Accounting, 41 Executive President and executive Director President Marketing Member of the OCE and Investment Risk Committee Member of the Executive Committee Mike Salamon was appointed an executive Director in February 2003 and Executive President in January 2006.
He was Group President Non-Ferrous Tom Schutte has worked in the mining and resources industry since June Materials consisting of Aluminium, Base Metals and Stainless Steel 1990.
Appointed President Marketing in December 2005, he was Materials.
He is Chairman of Samancor and a Director of Cerro Matoso.
previously Chief Financial Officer Commercial, BHP Billiton Marketing, From July 1997 to June 2001 he was an executive Director of Billiton Plc Marketing Director Billiton Manganese, Commercial and Development with responsibilities for nickel, chrome, manganese, stainless steel and Manager, Samancor Manganese, and Financial Consultant, Gencor titanium and is a former Executive Chairman of Samancor, Managing Corporate Finance.
He started his career with Coopers and Lybrand.
Director of Trans-Natal Coal Corporation and Chairman of Columbus.
Mahomed Seedat BEc Electrical, MDP Harvard, PMD UNISA, 50 Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP, 43 President Energy Coal Chief Financial Officer Member of the Executive Committee Member of the OCE and Chairman of the Investment Risk Committee and Financial Risk Management Committee and member of the Disclosure Mahomed Seedat was appointed President Energy Coal in January 2005.
Committee He previously held the positions of President and Chief Operating Officer Ingwe Collieries, President and Chief Operating Officer Aluminium Alex Vanselow joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed President Southern Africa with responsibility for the operations at the Hillside and Aluminium in March 2004.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Bayside aluminium smelters in Richards Bay, South Africa and the Mozal Aluminium, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Orinoco aluminium smelter in Maputo, Mozambique.
His former roles in the Iron CA and Manager Accounting and Control BHP Iron Ore. His prior Aluminium Customer Sector Group include Engineering Manager, career was with Arthur Andersen.
Maintenance Manager and General Manager of the Hillside Aluminium Smelter in Richards Bay.
His previous career was in the coal industry with Amcoal, where he held various positions at its collieries.
Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 50 J Michael Yeager BSc, MSc, 53 Special Advisor and Head of Group Secretariat Group President Energy Member of the OCE and Chairman of the Global Ethics Panel, the Member of the OCE and Executive Committee Disclosure Committee and the US Disclosure Controls Committee J Michael Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Group President Karen Wood was appointed Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited Energy.
He was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development and BHP Billiton Plc in June 2001 and was appointed Special Advisor and Company with responsibility for major joint venture projects.
Other Head of Group Secretariat in December 2005.
She is a member of the previous roles include Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd and Chief Takeovers Panel Australia, the Business Regulatory Advisory Group Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President Africa, ExxonMobil Australia and the JD Juris Doctor Advisory Board of the University of Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Production Melbourne, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the US.
member of the Law Council of Australia and the Law Institute of Victoria.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 39 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:57 AM Page 40 Corporate Governance Statement continued 7. Business conduct The BHP Billiton Group maintains a position of impartiality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party, politician or candidate for public office.
The BHP Billiton Group has published a Guide to Business Conduct, which is available in eight languages.
The Guide reflects It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
the Charter values of integrity, respect, trust and openness.
It provides clear direction and advice on conducting business 8.
Board Committees internationally: interacting with communities, governments and business partners: and general workplace behaviour.
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority, including monitoring the performance of the Group The Guide outlines BHP Billitons position The Guide can be to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the on a wide range of ethical and legal issues found at the Corporate Objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
including conflicts of interest, financial Groups website at inducements, bribery, trading in securities www.
com The permanent Committees of the Board are the Risk and and political contributions.
Audit Committee, the Sustainability Committee, the Nomination applies to Directors and to all employees, Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Ad-hoc Committees regardless of their position or location.
Consultants, contractors are formed from time to time to deal with specific matters.
and business partners are also expected to act in accordance with the Guide.
Each of the permanent Committees has The terms of reference terms of reference under which authority BHP Billiton has established regional helplines so that employees for each Committee is delegated by the Board.
can seek guidance or express concerns on Group related issues.
com Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
The office of the Company Secretary aboutus governance.
A fraud hotline facility is available for reporting cases of suspected provides secretariat services for each misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Arrangements are of the Committees.
Committee meeting in place to investigate such matters.
Where appropriate, agendas, papers and minutes are made available to all members investigations are conducted independently.
Further information of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding on the Business Conduct Helpline and fraud hotline can be found scrutiny of the Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use in the BHP Billiton Guide to Business Conduct.
whatever resources they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
8.1 Risk and Audit Committee report The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met eight times during The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2006 financial the year.
Its members are Mr D A Crawford Chairman, statements present a true and fair view, in all material respects, of BHP Billitons financial condition and operating results and Dr D C Brink, Dr D A L Jenkins and Mr J Nasser.
Mr Nasser are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
joined the Committee during the year following his appointment as a Director.
The Board has nominated Managing the relationship with the External Auditor Mr D A Crawford as the Committees financial expert.
The RAC manages the relationship between the Group and the External Auditor on behalf of the Board.
It recommends to the Role and focus Board potential auditors for appointment and the terms of The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the engagement, including remuneration.
In December 2003, the decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group through its Board, on the recommendation of the RAC, approved the oversight of the integrity of the financial statements and the appointment of KPMG.
Shareholders are asked to approve effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk reappointment of the auditors each year in the UK.
In performing this role the RAC focuses on the The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor appointment, remuneration, qualifications, performance and during its term of appointment against specified criteria independence of the External Auditor, and the integrity of the including delivering value to shareholders and the Group.
audit process as a whole: the effectiveness of the systems of BHP Billiton is committed to auditor independence and the internal control and risk management: the performance and RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity of leadership of the role of the Vice President Risk Management the External Auditor.
This review includes: and Assurance and of the internal audit function: compliance confirming that the External Auditor is, in its professional with legal and statutory requirements: and compliance by judgement, independent of the Group management with constraints imposed by the Board.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all relationships between the External Auditor and the Group Activities undertaken during the year monitoring the number of former employees of the External Integrity of financial statements Auditor currently employed in senior positions in the Group and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence financial statements.
The RAC evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness of, considering whether the various relationships between the and changes to, accounting policies and practices, areas of Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external determining whether the compensation of individuals audit.
It reviews the half yearly and annual financial statements employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether including formal adoption of the financial statements and this impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the judgement or independence integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time the reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the External Auditor and assessing whether that importance release of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors and the financial community.
40 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:57 AM Page 41 8.1 Risk and Audit Committee report continued The Group audit engagement partner will rotate every five years.
policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, reporting and preventing fraud, serious breaches of business The Group has a policy governing the conduct and whistle-blowing procedures This Policy can conduct of non-audit work by the be viewed at the policies for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory auditors.
Under the non-audit services www.
com and legal requirements Policy the External Auditor cannot aboutus governance.
arrangements for protecting the Groups ownership of provide services where the External intellectual property and other non-physical assets Auditor: the operational effectiveness of the Customer Sector Groups may be required to audit its own work CSG RAC structures participates in activities that would normally be undertaken the application of the principles of the Turnbull Guidance by management within the Group, including the adequacy of the internal is remunerated through a success fee structure control systems and allocation of responsibilities for acts in an advocacy role for BHP Billiton.
monitoring internal financial controls Fees paid to the External Auditor during the year for audit policies, information systems and procedures for preparation and other services were US$14.71 million, of which 75 per cent and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock comprised audit fees, 14 per cent audit-related fees and 11 per exchanges and the financial community.
cent taxation and other services.
Details of the fees paid are set Management has put in place a number of key policies, out in note 5 to the summary financial statements and note 4 processes and independent controls to provide assurance to the to the financial statements.
Board and the RAC as to the integrity of the Groups reporting Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the and effectiveness of its systems of internal control and risk External Auditor is independent.
The governance assurance diagram on page 42 highlights the relationship between the Board and the various Effectiveness of systems of internal control and risk management controls in the assurance process.
Some of the more significant In delegating authority to the CEO to make the decisions internal control systems include Board and management necessary to run the business, the Board has established limits committees, CSG Risk and Audit Committees, the Enterpriseon the manner in which that authority can be exercised.
One of Wide Risk Management System EWRM and Internal Audit.
the limits is to ensure that there is a system of control in place CSG Risk and Audit Committees for identifying and managing risk.
The Directors, through the To assist management in providing the information necessary to RAC, review the systems that have been established for this allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, separate Risk purpose and regularly review their effectiveness.
and Audit Committees have been established for each of the Business risks CSGs and key functional areas.
These Committees have been The scope of BHP Billitons operations and the number of established and operate as Committees of management but are industries in which the Group is engaged mean that a range of chaired by members of the Boards RAC or by other external factors may impact Group results.
Material risks that could appointees with appropriate skills and experience.
They negatively affect the Groups results and performance include: perform an important monitoring function in the overall fluctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange governance of the Group.
rates Management reports on significant matters raised at CSG RAC failure to discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves meetings to the Boards RAC.
fewer mineral, oil or gas reserves than our estimates indicate Each half year, the President and CFOs of each CSG and each compliance with health, safety and environmental exposures of the Marketing, Shared Services Centres and Treasury functions and related regulations must review internal controls and provide formal representations land tenure disputes to the Vice President Group Accounting and Controller, which actions by governments in the countries in which we operate are noted by the applicable CSG RAC, assuring compliance with risks associated with emerging markets Group policies and procedures and confirming that internal control systems are adequate.
These representations are inability to successfully integrate our acquired businesses or recover our investments in exploration and new mining and summarised and provided to the Boards RAC.
oil and gas projects Board Committees increased reliance upon the Chinese market in the event of a The Sustainability Committee of the Board reviews the slow down in consumption effectiveness of the internal controls covering health, safety, shortages of skilled labour that could negatively impact our environment and community risks.
Directors also monitor operations and expansion plans risks and controls through the RAC and the Remuneration costs that may increase due to inflationary pressures.
Management of business risks Management Committees The principal aim of the system of internal control is to manage Management Committees also perform roles in relation to business risks, with a view to enhancing the value of risk and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
Although changes in the Groups business environment are regularly no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance reviewed by the OCE and discussed by the Board.
The FRMC that the business risks will be fully mitigated, the internal reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating to control systems are designed to meet the Groups specific commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency risk, needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
financing risk and interest rate risk.
Minutes of the OCE and the FRMC are provided to the Board.
The IRC provides oversight for The RAC is responsible for reviewing the internal controls and risk management systems, including: investment processes across the Group and coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major investments.
Reports the procedure for identifying business risks and controlling are made to the Board on findings by the IRC in relation to their financial impact on the Group and the operational major capital projects.
effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to risk and control the budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting systems and controls BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 41 Accountability Delegation NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:57 AM Page 42 Corporate Governance Statement continued 8.1 Risk and Audit Committee report continued CEO and CFO certification assessment, independent of management, of the adequacy The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial of the Groups internal operating and financial controls, statements are founded on a sound system of risk management systems and practices and internal compliance and that the system is operating assisting the Board in meeting its corporate governance efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
and regulatory responsibilities provision of advisory services to management to enhance During the year the RAC reviewed the Groups response to the the control environment and improve business performance obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in enterprise-wide risk management particular progress in evaluating and documenting internal risk management information systems controls as required by section 404 of the Act, which will apply to the Group in the year ended 30 June 2007. insurance strategy.
The RAC approves the appointment and dismissal of the Vice Enterprise-Wide Risk Management President Risk Management and Assurance and assesses his or The Group operates an Enterprise-Wide Risk Management her independence and objectivity.
The Vice President Risk System EWRM that forms the cornerstone of the Groups risk Management and Assurance is Mr Stefano Giorgini.
Its aim is to meet the obligations of the unfettered access to management and the Boards RAC.
CEO in ensuring a system is in place for identifying and managing risk.
Its existence provides the RAC with the Review of effectiveness assurance that the major risks facing the Group have been During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the identified and assessed, and that there effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the are controls either in place or planned The Groups EWRM financial year and up to the date of this Report in accordance Policy can be found at to address these risks.
com with the Turnbull Guidance and the Principles of Good validation is undertaken by Internal aboutus governance.
Corporate Governance published by the Australian Stock Audit.
These reviews, Internal Audit which were overseen by the Boards RAC, covered financial, operational and compliance controls and risk assessment.
BHP Billiton has an Internal Audit function known as Group Findings and recommendations were reported to the Board.
Audit Services GAS, which assists with the identification and control of Group business risks.
The Boards RAC reviews the In addition to considering the key risks facing the Group, the mission and charter of GAS, ensures that it is adequately staffed Board reviewed an assessment of the effectiveness of internal and that its scope of work is appropriate in light of the key risks controls over the key risks identified through the work of the facing the Group and the other monitoring functions in place.
Board Committees and management Committees described It also reviews and approves an annual Internal Audit plan.
The role of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance Assessment of RAC performance includes: During the year the Committee assessed its performance.
achievement of GAS objectives, which are: As a result of that assessment the Board revised the assessment of the design and operating effectiveness Committees terms of reference and increased the number of controls governing key operational processes and of members.
business risks Governance Assurance Diagram Board Board Governance Document Risk and Audit Sustainability Nomination Remuneration Committee RAC Committee HSEC Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer Management Governance and Assurance External Auditors Key Processes Key Policies Charter Office of the Chief Executive Financial Risk Management Committee Group Audit Guide to Business Conduct Anti Trust Protocols CSG and Asset Appraisals Services CSG RACs Approvals Framework Contracts and Commitments Enterprise-Wide Risk Management HSEC Stewardship Reviews Risk Management Audits Sustainable Development Management Representation Letters Market Risk Management Committee Portfolio Risk Management Governance Framework Disclosure Committee Peer Reviews Investment Risk Committee Securities Dealing Code Major Projects Market Disclosure and Communications Investment Evaluation Standard Financial and Management Reporting Non-Audit Services Tax HSEC Management Standards Ore Oil Gas Information Management Reserves Review Financial Accounting 42 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Independent Assurance NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:57 AM Page 43 8.2 Remuneration Committee report 8.4 Sustainability Committee report The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year.
Following a review of its effectiveness, the Sustainability Its members are Dr J G Buchanan Chairman, Dr D A L Jenkins, Committee was restructured during the year and the the Hon E G fide Planque and Mr C A S Cordeiro.
Dr fide Planque Committees terms of reference were revised.
The Committees and Mr Cordeiro were appointed to the Committee during the members now comprise only non-executive Directors: year succeeding Lord Renwick and Dr J M Schubert.
All of the Dr D C Brink Chairman, Mr P M Anderson, Dr E G fide Planque Committee members are independent non-executive Directors.
Prof Jim Galvin acted as an adviser to the Mr Gordon Clark of Kepler Associates acts as an independent Committee.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Following a review of its performance conducted during the year, the Committee revised its terms of Role and focus reference.
The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: Role and focus health, safety, environment and community risks The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory oversight of: requirements associated with health, safety, environment and the remuneration policy and its specific application to the community matters CEO, the executive Directors and the CEOs direct reports, the Groups performance in relation to health, safety, and its general application to all Group employees environment and community matters the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans the performance and leadership of the health, safety and the determination of levels of reward to the CEO and environment function and the sustainable development approval of reward to the CEOs direct reports function the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, by the Groups Annual Sustainability Summary Report giving guidance to the Group Chairman the preparation of a report by the Committee to be included the communication to shareholders on remuneration policy in the Annual Report.
and the Committees work on behalf of the Board the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory Activities undertaken during the year requirements associated with remuneration matters A comprehensive Sustainability the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be included The Sustainability Report and a Sustainability Summary Report is published in the Groups Annual Report.
Report are published each year.
at the same time as The Sustainability Summary Report the Annual Report Activities undertaken during the year identifies BHP Billitons targets for and can be found at http: sustainability.
health, safety, environment and Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board are bhpbilliton.
com 2006. community matters and its set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61. performance against those targets.
For an overview of BHP Billitons approach to sustainable development, refer to page 10 of this Annual Review.
8.3 Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee met six times during the year.
The members of the Committee are Mr D R Argus Chairman, 9.
Conformance with corporate governance standards Dr J G Buchanan and Dr J M Schubert.
All members of the BHP Billitons compliance with the governance standards in each Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
of the jurisdictions in which it operates is summarised in this Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, Role and focus the Directors Report and the financial statements.
The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed Board is comprised of individuals who are best able to companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which highest standards of governance.
It does so by focusing on: are contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code, and explain reviewing the skills represented on the Board and identifying the reasons for any non-compliance.
skills that might be required The Listing Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require retaining the services of independent search firms and Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which identifying suitable candidates for the Board refer to sections they meet the Best Practice Recommendations published by the 4.2 and 5.3 of this Statement Australian Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Council as part overseeing the review of the assessment of the performance of its Principles of Good Corporate Governance Best Practice of individual Directors and making recommendations to the Recommendations and explain the reasons for any nonBoard on the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking compliance.
re-election refer to section 5 of this Statement Both the Combined Code and the Best communication to shareholders on the work of the A checklist summarising Practice Recommendations require the Committee on behalf of the Board.
BHP Billitons compliance Board to consider the application of with the UK Combined the relevant corporate governance Code and the Best Practice Activities undertaken during the year principles, while recognising that Recommendations has been posted to the website at There were significant changes to the composition of the Board departures from those principles are www.
Lord Renwick and Mr Michael Chaney retired appropriate in some circumstances.
following the 2005 Annual General Meetings, and the BHP Billiton has complied with the Committee recommended the appointment and election of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Hon Gail fide Planque, Mr Paul Anderson and Mr Jacques Nasser Combined Code.
as non-executive Directors, and Mr Marius Kloppers and Mr Chris Lynch as executive Directors.
The Committee retained the BHP Billiton has complied with the Best Practice services of Heidrick and Struggles and Egon Zehnder to assist in Recommendations throughout the financial period and has the identification of potential candidates.
continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Review.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 43 NEW Pt 2 9 9 06 12:57 AM Page 44 Corporate Governance Statement continued BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
BHP Billiton has reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US including the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and is satisfied that it complies with those requirements.
Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual has instituted a broad regime of new corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules foreign private issuers, such as BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10A-3 and certain notification provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires BHP Billiton to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US-listed companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
Following a comparison of BHP Billitons corporate governance practices with the requirements of Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual that would otherwise currently apply to foreign private issuers, the following differences were identified: Our Nomination Committee Charter does not include the purpose of developing and recommending to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the corporation.
At BHP Billiton we believe that this task is integral to the governance of the Group and is therefore best dealt with by the Board as a whole.
Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the work of the external auditors unless the companys governing law or documents or other home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While BHP Billitons Risk and Audit Committee RAC is directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of External Auditors, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and retention of External Auditors rests with BHP Billitons shareholders, in accordance with Australian and UK law and BHP Billitons constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
While the Board of BHP Billiton is satisfied with its level of compliance with the governance requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, it recognises that practices and procedures can always be improved, and that there is merit in continuously reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Boards program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
