Corporate Governance reports shareholders concerns may be conveyed if contact through the normal Board corporate governance statement channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to Purpose resolve them or is inappropriate.
Corporate governance is the framework of business principles, Key parts of the duties of the Board, notably with regard to Board structures and controls within which the Group, its management, appointments, controls, risk management and remuneration-related directors and shareholders operate.
Its aim is to ensure: matters, are carried out through, or on the recommendation of, the accountability: Boards Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The majority transparency of responsibility: of the members of the Nomination Committee and all the members of the the containment of risk within the Groups agreed risk appetite: latter two committees are independent non-executive directors.
The terms the appropriate management of conflicts of interest: and of reference of each of these committees, as well as a statement of the effective relationships between the Companys stakeholders, relationship between the Company and its remuneration advisers, are especially between the Board and shareholders available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
all of which support the Companys underlying purpose of creating shareholder value through the successful delivery of its vision and The Board and its committees are supported by the Company Secretary strategy.
who, under the direction of the Chairman, helps to ensure good communication and information flows within the Board, including This report sets out the practical elements of the Companys corporate between executive and non-executive directors and between the Board governance policies and practices.
He is also, with the Chairman, a guardian of all Board Commitment and basis of reporting procedural matters, regularly advises the Board on governance matters The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, and facilitates the Board updating and induction work outlined below.
including to the principles contained in the 2003 edition of the Combined The non-executive directors met during the year without executive Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting directors or other executive management present, including once without Council Combined Code.
The Chairman chairs full non-executive meetings and the During the year ended 31 December 2006 the Company was in senior independent director chairs meetings when the Chairman is not compliance with all of the provisions of section 1 companies of the present.
This report, together with the Directors remuneration Board meetings report and the reports from the Nomination and Audit Committees, The Board meets on a regular basis, holding five main pre-scheduled describes how the Company applied the Main and Supporting Principles Board meetings in 2006 2005: six and, as in 2005, a planning and of the Combined Code during the year.
strategy session over two days 2005: one.
No Board meetings were Role and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and the held during the year to consider corporate transactions 2005: two.
The Company Secretary attendance record of each director out of six possible meetings, The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its including the planning and strategy session, unless stated otherwise was committees decisions provides that the Boards primary obligation is to as follows: lead and control the Company and its business, with exclusive decision Board meeting attendance 2006 making powers over such matters as: overall strategy and resources: Number of remuneration policies: accounting policies: and capital expenditure, Director meetings attended acquisitions and debt facilities over certain thresholds.
Matters reserved N J C Buchanan 6 to the Board also include certain key Group policies, appointments and B D Carpenter 6 categories of public announcements.
The detailed implementation of all R H Davey 6 these matters, and day-to-day business, are left to management, which R A Hextall 6 reports formally to the Board at least quarterly on underwriting, financial A W Holt 6 and other operational matters and objectives.
The current schedule of R S Joslin 5 matters reserved to the Board is available in the Corporate Governance K T Kemp 5 section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the R W Mylvaganam 6 Company Secretary.
C E L Philipps 6 The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information Lord Stewartby to enable it to discharge its duties, including providing constructive retired 25 May 2006 maximum possible meetings 3 3 challenge to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further information is R J Taylor 6 obtained by the Board from the executive directors and other relevant Sir Mark Wrightson Bt senior executives as the Board considers appropriate.
Procedures are in appointed 15 March 2006 maximum possible meetings 4 4 place for directors to take independent professional advice, when Average % attendance 97% necessary, at the Companys expense.
Board terms of appointment, membership and time commitments There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the Chairman, The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a who is responsible for leading and running the Board and related matters directors election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting such as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group Chief Executive, immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, each who has executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
directors term of office, before being required to submit himself or herself A statement detailing this division of responsibilities, which includes to shareholders for re-election, is three years.
Details of the procedures provision for the Chairmans role in shareholder relations and in ensuring whereby appointments and re-appointments to the Board are considered constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors, on a formal, rigorous and transparent manner, on merit and against was approved by the Board in 2003.
Mr Nigel Buchanan is the senior objective criteria, are set out in the Report from the Nomination Committee.
independent director designated as an appropriate director to whom Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 53 Corporate Governance reports At both the start and end of the year the Board comprised: the industry matters are included in the Board programme as required.
Chairman, six other non-executive directors of whom five were classified During 2006 a Board session was conducted on the Companies Act as independent and one not and four executive directors.
Biographical 2006 and on recent and prospective changes to the FSAs Listing Rules details of all the current directors are included on pages 46 and 47.
The and the Disclosure Rules.
In addition, the Company encourages, changes to the Board during the year were the appointment on 15 March facilitates and monitors other professional development undertaken by 2006 of an independent non-executive director, Sir Mark Wrightson Bt, both executive and non-executive directors as is required for their and the retirement from the Board on 25 May 2006 of the Deputy particular roles and responsibilities.
The Company maintains a model Chairman and senior independent non-executive director, Lord Stewartby.
director induction programme, which is tailored to meet the needs of On 25 May 2006 Mr Buchanan was appointed senior independent each new director joining the Board.
Both Mr Davey and Sir Mark non-executive director.
Wrightson, who joined the Board in December 2005 and March 2006 respectively, undertook the programme in 2006.
The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman has sufficient time available to devote to his duties as non-executive Chairman of Amlin plc Board evaluation and, since 1 April 2006, as non-executive Chairman of the Companys During the year the Board undertook its third annual evaluation of the principal UK operating subsidiary, Amlin Underwriting Limited AUL.
He performance of the Board, its Committees and each director.
The and the other current non-executive directors have made the following evaluations were initiated by a comprehensive questionnaire completed minimum annual time commitments to the Company, to include where by each director giving his assessment of both collective and individual applicable time spent on duties as a non-executive director of AUL: performances, including self-evaluation.
The results of the evaluation of the Board as a whole were summarised by the Chairman and, at its Chairman Mr Taylor : 75 days meeting in February 2007, the Board agreed its conclusions.
Each Board Chairman of either the Audit or Remuneration Committee Committee evaluated its performance, and also reported and discussed and a member of all three main Board committees its findings at the Board.
Messrs Buchanan and Mylvaganam : 30 days The Chairman also discussed the conclusions on each individual director, Other non-executive directors Messrs Davey, Joslin, Kemp including the performances of executive directors in respect of their and Sir Mark Wrightson : 20 days boardroom as opposed to executive roles, at private meetings with the director concerned.
Executive directors managerial roles continue to be Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive and assessed as part of the Groups executive Performance Development executive directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Review process, in respect of which the Chief Executives performance is Board independence reviewed by the Chairman.
The non-executive Chairman was independent on his appointment The Chairmans own evaluation was conducted by the non-executive in 1998. directors led by the senior independent non-executive director, who Apart from Mr Kemp, all the non-executive directors serving during discussed and agreed the conclusions with the Chairman.
and or since the year were determined by the Board as being The evaluations are also taken into account by the Nomination independent in character and judgement with in the words of the Committee when considering specifications for new non-executive Combined Code no relationships or circumstances which are likely to directors, succession planning and nominations for re-election at AGMs.
affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Relations with shareholders Until 31 December 2002 Mr Joslin was Vice Chairman of State Farm The Company is committed to a process of continuing dialogue with its Mutual Automobile Insurance Company State Farm, which is a 7.3% shareholders.
In addition to usual briefings on financial results, the shareholder in the Company and until November 2004 provided material Company makes appropriate contact with institutional investors and their Letter of Credit facilities to the Group on commercial terms.
His representative bodies, for instance on the new incentive plans proposed relationship with State Farm ceased on his retirement three years before at the 2006 AGM.
Shareholder views on the Company are the subject of the start of 2006.
He was therefore classified as independent throughout specific reports at Board meetings at least twice annually and an the year.
independently conducted survey of institutional shareholders investment Lord Stewartby, who retired from the Board in May 2006, had been a criteria, and their perceptions of the Company, its management and its director since October 1995.
3.1 of the investor communications, is conducted approximately every eighteen Code regarding Board service of more than nine years, the Board months.
Further details of investor relations activities are included in the continued to classify him as independent, for the same reasons given in relevant section of the Operating and Financial Review.
previous years reports, until his retirement.
Annual General Meeting participation and voting From June 2002 to September 2004 Mr Kemp was temporarily Chief Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, Financial Officer of Montpelier Re Holdings Limited Montpelier, with when a presentation on the Groups progress is made each year.
The which the Groups managed syndicate has in the past had reinsurance Company attaches importance to encouraging a high level of voting arrangements on commercial terms.
Although Mr Kemp was not involved participation at its general meetings, receiving proxies representing 76%, in the negotiation of these arrangements, the Board considers that the 74% and 77% of its shares in issue at its 2004, 2005 and 2006 AGMs past business relationship between Amlin and Montpelier, and the current respectively.
Electronic proxy voting, details of which are included in the potential competition between Amlin Bermuda Ltd and Montpelier, of 2007 AGM circular and Notice of Meeting, is made available.
The totals which Mr Kemp remains a non-executive director, are sufficiently material of proxy votes on each resolution, including details of any votes withheld for Mr Kemp to be classified as non-independent.
i. e. deliberately abstained, are announced after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and the full proxy voting results also Board information and professional development announced through a regulatory news service and on the Companys In addition to information about the Company, all directors are provided website.
In the event of a close result as indicated by the proxies held by with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public the chairman of the meeting, the chairman would call a poll, but this has company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and not yet proved necessary.
Updating sessions on technical and or 54 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Accountability and internal control The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing its significant risks.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The process and its findings are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports on the matter to the Board, and accords with the guidance in the document Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This process explicitly includes the risks, and opportunities to enhance value, arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
The directors are responsible for the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of these systems, which are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
They are also designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Other procedures which may assist the effectiveness of internal controls, such as whistle blowing procedures whereby any member of staff may take matters of concern direct to the head of Internal Audit or, if appropriate, to the Chairman of the Company or the senior independent non-executive director, have been put in place and are reviewed annually.
Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant identified control failings or weaknesses.
The Board has put in place a management structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group also operates a financial performance monitoring process involving detailed reporting against budgets and the preparation of longer term projections.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee which reviews the following main processes established by the Company to review the effectiveness of internal control: Regular reporting by each division and central function through an integrated risk management system on the main risks to the achievement of Group objectives and on the nature and effectiveness of the controls and other management processes to manage these risks.
Significant risks and the actions taken to manage those risks are regularly reviewed by the Groups Risk Committee which comprises senior executives.
The Risk Committee reports to each meeting of the Audit Committee.
A self-certification process whereby senior managers report on those parts of the systems for which each of them is responsible.
Internal audit and compliance monitoring work carried out respectively by the Groups Internal Audit and Risk Assessment and Monitoring departments.
The latter also provides compliance advice.
The heads of both departments report to the Group Chief Executive and the head of Internal Audit also has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee.
The Group has established a continuous audit and compliance programme for reviewing and evaluating the internal controls and compliance procedures used in the management of risk.
Going concern The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Group financial statements therefore continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
By Order of the Board C C T Pender Secretary 2 March 2007 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 55 Corporate Governance reports Activities Report from the Nomination Committee Early in the year the Committee completed the process of recommending Purpose the appointment of a further independent non-executive director.
An The Nomination Committee the Committee is responsible for agreed specification had been drawn up in 2005 and, working with recommending Board appointments and considering succession external search consultants, Sir Mark Wrightson Bt was recommended planning, so that the Board and its committees comprise directors, for appointment.
He joined the Board on 15 March 2006. both executive and non-executive, with the appropriate balance of On the completion of a number of the non-executive directors terms of experience and qualities to deliver the strategic direction, office, the Committee considered and recommended their renomination entrepreneurial leadership, values, management, standards and at the 2006 AGM.
The Committee also recommended to the Board that framework of controls that the Company needs to deliver its vision.
each of the four executive directors be renominated at the 2006 AGM, as Membership well as changes in committee appointments.
Following the retirement of The Committee was chaired throughout the year by the Chairman of the Lord Stewartby at the AGM as Deputy Chairman and senior Company, who is non-executive.
Its other four members throughout 2006 non-executive director, the Committee recommended that the Deputy and in 2007 to date have been three independent non-executive Chairmanship be left vacant and that Mr Buchanan be appointed as directors and the Chief Executive.
The independent non-executives were senior independent non-executive director.
All of these recommendation Messrs Joslin and Mylvaganam throughout, with Lord Stewartby until 25 were agreed by the Board.
May 2006 and Mr Buchanan from the same date.
Both executive and non-executive succession planning continued to be Terms of reference kept under review.
Mindful that both of the US non-executive directors The Committee, which is a joint committee of the Boards of the have served on the Board for some years, the process of seeking to Company and of its principal UK operating subsidiary, Amlin Underwriting recruit a new US non-executive director, in due course to replace either Limited, is responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of or both of the existing ones, was commenced during the year.
With a the relevant Board or Boards, all candidates for Board appointment and high proportion of the Groups premium income originating in the US, the proposed election or re-election to the Board, whether in a non-executive Committee and the Board wishes to maintain a strong US element on or executive capacity.
Re-nomination of directors to the Companys the Board.
Annual General Meeting AGM is considered on a case by case basis An annual self-evaluation was conducted by the Committee of its own before recommendations are made.
The Committees terms of reference composition, procedures, contribution and effectiveness, the conclusions require it to give full consideration to succession planning, taking into of which were agreed and reported to the Board in November 2006. account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise are needed in the future.
The Committee is also By Order of the Board, responsible for assessing the adequacy of the Groups contingency and on the recommendation of its Nomination Committee longer term succession plans in respect of the most senior roles below Board level.
It also recommends to the Board the appointment of, and changes in, members of the Boards main Committees.
No director may participate in any decision regarding his or her own position.
The terms of reference are available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
Meetings C C T Pender Secretary The Committee meets as frequently as is required to fulfil its duties.
When 2 March 2007 there are not specific recommendations or decisions to be made, the Chairman consults members of the Committee between meetings.
The Committee met three times during 2006 2005: twice.
Nomination Committee attendance 2006 Number of Committee member meetings attended N J C Buchanan appointed 25 May 2006 maximum possible meetings 1 1 R S Joslin 3 R W Mylvaganam 3 C E L Philipps 3 Lord Stewartby retired 25 May 2006 maximum possible meetings 2 2 R J Taylor 3 Average % attendance 100% 56 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Activities Report from the Audit Committee In addition to reviewing the Companys interim and preliminary results Purpose statements and its Annual Report, the Committee reviewed and reported The Audit Committee the Committee makes recommendations on to the Board on: the managed syndicates Annual Report: the external the reporting, control and compliance aspects of the directors and auditors engagement and service plan: the plans, work undertaken and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, recommendations made during the year by the Groups Internal Audit guidance and challenge to executive management in these areas.
department, including reports on the systems set up in the new Amlin Its aim is to ensure that high standards of corporate reporting, Bermuda Ltd business: the external auditors independence and the controls and compliance are achieved, in the belief that excellence extent and reasons for them providing non-audit services a breakdown in these areas enhances the effectiveness, and reduces the risks, of of the fees for which is set out in note 11 to the Accounts : the Groups the business.
whistle blowing procedures: and other related matters.
Reports were received from the external auditors in respect of each set of financial Membership statements, highlighting the material judgemental areas, which were then The following have been members of the Committee during the year and discussed by the Committee with executive management and the up to the date of this report: Mr Buchanan chairman of the Committee, auditors at the relevant Committee meeting.
Mr Davey, Mr Joslin and Mr Mylvaganam.
In addition, Lord Stewartby was a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on A special meeting was held to consider AULs Individual Capital 25 May 2006.
Assessment report prior to its submission to Lloyds in September 2006.
All of the members of the Committee were at all times classified by the Procedures were operated throughout the year for the approval of any Board as independent.
Throughout the year there have been a number appointments of the external auditors or its associated entities to of members with recent and relevant financial experience, including provide non-audit services.
The Committee remained satisfied that the Mr Buchanan and Mr Joslin.
provision of such non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP has not compromised the auditors impartiality or independence.
The Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director usually attend the Committees meetings, as does the Details of the Committees role regarding internal control issues are set head of Internal Audit and, since the role was created during 2006, the out in the Accountability and internal control section of the Board Chief Risk Officer.
At least once a year the Committee meets, both on its own and with The Committee monitored the Groups compliance with Financial the external auditors, without any executive management present.
The Services Authority, Lloyds and other regulatory requirements and Committee also meets privately with the head of Internal Audit, who has recommendations.
Reports to the Committee included summaries of the a private line of communication with the Committee Chairman.
findings of internal audit reports, enabling members of the Committee to question the executive responsible for internal audit on such reports and Terms of reference to monitor the measures taken by management to respond to issues The terms of reference of the Committee, which is a joint committee of raised.
The Committee also considered and approved managements the Boards of the Company and its principal UK operating subsidiary, proposals for a separation of the internal audit and compliance functions, Audit Underwriting Limited AUL, enable it to take an independent view which involved compliance becoming part of an expanded Risk of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
Assessment and Monitoring department under the Chief Risk Officer, and It also considers the appointment and fees both audit and non-audit of Internal Audit becoming a stand-alone function.
the external auditors, who have unrestricted access to it, and monitors the Groups compliance, internal control and risk management During the year the Committee conducted a self-evaluation of its procedures.
The Committees terms of reference, which take full account composition, procedures, contribution and effectiveness, the conclusions of the Smith Report on the role of audit committees, are available in the of which were agreed and reported to the Board in November 2006.
Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys By Order of the Board, website or from the Company Secretary.
on the recommendation of its Audit Committee Meetings The Committee meets a minimum of four times a year.
It met five times during 2006 2005: four, when attendance by committee members was as follows: Audit Committee attendance 2006 Number of C C T Pender Secretary Committee member meetings attended 2 March 2007 N J C Buchanan 5 R H Davey 4 R S Joslin 5 R W Mylvaganam 4 Lord Stewartby retired 25 May 2006 maximum possible meetings 1 1 Average % attendance 90% Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 57
