Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 85 Risk and regulatory committee report This report provides details of the role of the Risk and Regulatory The responsibility for overseeing risk, regulatory and compliance Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
issues, as well as the oversight of non-financial internal controls was transferred to the Committee from the Audit Committee in The Committee was established by the Board in January 2006 and April 2006.
The work of the Committee since its establishment held its first meeting in April 2006.
The purpose of the Committee has fallen into the following broad areas: is to assist the Board in providing leadership, direction and oversight with regard to the Groups governance and regulatory policies Risk management and procedures, including those related to compliance, risk The Committee has received regular reports on the Groups risk management, financial malpractice and internal non-financial management processes, including the key risks facing the business controls.
The Committee was established as the Governance and and the measures being taken by management to contain them.
Regulatory Committee but changed its name in June 2006 to the It has also reviewed the processes and governance used by Risk and Regulatory Committee to more closely describe its main management to define the Groups risk appetite and has reviewed accountabilities.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can the internal non-financial controls used to monitor the effectiveness be found on the Companys website www.
com and are of the Groups risk management processes.
available from the Group Company Secretary.
The following independent non-executive directors served on the Regulation and compliance Committee during the year: The Committee has reviewed the Groups regulatory operating plan and has received regular reports on its relationships with its Period external regulators.
In particular, the Committee monitors the Member From To actions being taken by management in relation to the Risk Mary Francis Chairman Mitigation Programme agreed with the Financial Services Authority.
from 1 January 2007 14 January 2006 To date Reports on any material compliance issues are received by the Russell Walls 14 January 2006 To date Committee including any reputational issues which may arise.
In addition, the Committee receives reports on legislative and Wim Dik 14 January 2006 To date regulatory developments which may impact the Group.
Russell Walls served as the chairman of the Committee from its Business protection inception until 31 December 2006 when he was succeeded as Reports on financial malpractice are presented to the Committee chairman by Mary Francis.
There were no other changes in the including incidences of fraud, anti-money laundering procedures membership of the Committee during the year.
The Group and arrangements whereby persons can report in confidence Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
any concerns about matters of probity whistleblowing.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2006 and each member The Committee proposes to increase its focus into other attended every meeting.
In addition the Committee held separate areas of business protection as its work progresses.
meetings with members of senior management and Ernst & Young for the purpose of induction and training.
The chairman of the Committee reports at the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
Director and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook management are also invited to attend as appropriate to present a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, reports.
It is the Committees practice at each meeting to meet including the Risk and Regulatory Committee.
separately with the Group Audit Director and the external This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on auditor without any members of management being present.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Group Audit Director, the Group Regulatory and Tax Mary Francis Director, the Group Company Secretary, the Group Financial Chairman, Risk and Regulatory Committee Management Director and external professional advice.
