Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 82 Audit committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and The Committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
It reviews, the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the with members of management and the internal and external Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities auditors, the Companys financial announcements including the for the integrity of the Companys financial statements, the annual report and accounts to shareholders and associated assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of internal documentation.
It places particular emphasis on their fair financial controls and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity presentation and the reasonableness of the judgemental factors of the internal and external auditors.
The full terms of reference and appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in their for the Committee can be found on the Companys website preparation.
At each meeting, the Committee receives a report www.
com and are available from the Group from the Group Audit Director concerning the Companys systems Company Secretary.
of internal financial control, including any significant new issues and actions taken on previously reported issues.
Twice each year, The following independent non-executive directors, served on the the Committee receives reports on the adequacy of the Groups Committee during the year: life assurance and general insurance reserves.
The Committee Period also reviews the annual work plan for the Groups internal audit Member From To function.
The Committee reports to the Board regarding the Russell Walls 1 July 2004 To date effectiveness of the Groups overall systems of internal control.
Chairman from The Committee itself reviews the financial controls and works 1 January 2007 closely with the Risk and Regulatory Committee which reviews the non-financial controls.
Richard Karl Goeltz 1 July 2004 To date Prior to 2006, the Committee received regular reports on risk Carole Piwnica 24 September 2003 To date management, financial malpractice including fraud, anti-money Derek Stevens 8 August 1995 31 December 2006 laundering and whistleblowing, regulatory and compliance matters.
The responsibility for overseeing these matters as well as Russell Walls succeeded Derek Stevens as the chairman of the the oversight of the non-financial internal controls was transferred Committee on 1 January 2007 and Mary Francis became a to the Risk and Regulatory Committee following its establishment member from that date.
The Committee met on four occasions in in January 2006.
A separate report from that committee is set 2006 and each member attended every meeting.
Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups capital and Russell Walls, a Fellow Chartered Certified Accountant, is a former risk frameworks against the regulatory reforms incorporated in Group Finance Director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and Coats the Financial Services Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook PSB Viyella plc.
Richard Karl Goeltz is a former Chief Financial Officer of concerning the Groups individual capital assessments ICA.
American Express Company, NatWest Group plc and The Seagram The Committee considered the proposed assumptions, Company Ltd.
The Board is satisfied that these directors have recent methodology and process followed in determining the amount and relevant financial experience.
of capital required to support the Groups business plans and the adequacy of its capital resources.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit Director and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, Each of the Groups major business units has an audit committee all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior that provides an oversight role for its business.
All such committees management are also invited to attend as appropriate to present include members who are independent of the relevant business.
It is the Committees practice at each meeting to meet The Group Audit Director reviews the papers and minutes from separately with the Group Audit Director and the external these committees and brings all significant matters to the auditor without any members of management being present.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the The Committee receives reports from the external auditor and services of the Group Audit Director, the Group Company regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external Secretary and external professional advice.
auditors in the absence of management.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 83 Internal audit Annually, the Committee reviews a formal letter provided by The Groups internal audit function advises management on the external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and professional standards.
to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
Through the The Group paid 9.0 million to Ernst & Young LLP for audit services Group Audit Director, the internal audit function provides in 2006, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Company objective assurance on risks and controls to the Committee.
financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries and The plans and level of resources of the internal audit function are associates pursuant to legislation 2005: 9.0 million.
In addition, reviewed each year by the Committee, which also undertakes an the Group engaged Ernst & Young LLP in relation to certain annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit assurance work including verification of its Corporate Social function against guidance criteria provided by the Institute of Responsibility Report.
The fees for other services which included Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
As a result of the advice on accounting and regulatory matters, reporting on internal restructuring of the Groups internal audit function during 2006 controls, corporate governance matters, and due diligence work and 2007, the proposed independent review of the function has were 6.6 million giving a total fee to Ernst & Young LLP of been deferred.
However, during 2006 the effectiveness of the 15.6 million 2005: 13.8 million.
Further details are provided internal audit peer review was independently evaluated by KPMG.
External auditor During the year, the Committee performed its annual review Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young was appointed auditor of the of the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external Company in 2001 having previously been the auditor of Norwich auditor: assessing the audit firm, the audit partner and audit Union plc.
Following the 2005 external audit effectiveness review teams.
The process was conducted by means of a questionnaire, the Committee concluded that the audit was fit for purpose and completed Group-wide by members of senior management recommended that a re-tender process should not be undertaken and members of the Groups finance community.
The questionnaire in 2006 but that the relationship and the effectiveness of the sought opinions on the importance of certain criteria and the auditor be kept under review.
The audit signing partner changed performance of the auditor against those criteria.
The questionnaires as part of a rotation process in 2002 and in line with that were collated by the Group Company Secretary.
Based on this process there has been a further rotation in audit partner following review, the Committee concluded that the audit service of the sign-off of the statements for the 2006 financial year.
Ernst & Young LLP was fit for purpose and provided a robust overall Ernst & Young audits the whole of the Group other than Delta examination of the Groups business and the risks involved.
Lloyd the Groups subsidiary operating in the Netherlands, In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany, which is audited by a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year,  LLP PwC and part of the RAC group including the Audit Committee.
which remains audited by KPMG.
To fulfil its Group reporting responsibilities Ernst & Young reviews the work of PwC and KPMG This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on in accordance with standard auditing practices.
The Company has policies aimed at safeguarding and supporting Russell Walls the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Chairman, Audit Committee The policies regulate the appointment of former audit employees to senior finance positions in the Group and set out the approach to be taken by the Group when using the services of the auditor.
It distinguishes between those matters where an independent view is required, such as audit and assurance work, and other advisory services.
In addition to statutory audits, audit and assurance work includes reviewing statutory returns, actuarial assurance, regulatory advice requiring auditor reporting, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, fraud investigations and control reviews and audit reviews.
As a general principle the auditor cannot be engaged by the Company for any other purpose, although the policy recognises that there may be areas of minor significance where, for pragmatic reasons, it may be in the Groups interests to use the external auditor for this work.
