Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 84 Nomination committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination During the year the Committee reviewed its executive succession Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
plans against an indication from Richard Harvey, the Group Chief Executive, that he may wish to retire in mid2007, three years prior The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board to his normal retirement date.
As part of the succession process the by keeping the composition of the Board under review and Board, with the advice and assistance of MWM Consulting agreed conducting a rigorous and transparent process when making or a process and prepared an ideal candidate profile for the group renewing appointments of directors to the Board.
It also advises the chief executive role.
A shortlist of external candidates considered Board on issues of directors conflicts of interest and independence.
able to match the profile was prepared against which the The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys internal candidates were benchmarked.
Through this Companys website www.
com and are available from the process the Committee was able to confirm that the internal Group Company Secretary.
candidates compared well against potential external candidates.
The following directors served on the Committee during the year: The internal candidates were then interviewed and assessed externally and by a number of the Companys independent nonPeriod executive directors.
As a result of this process the Committee was Member From To able, upon Richard Harvey confirming in January 2007 his intention Lord Sharman Chairman 25 January 2006 To date to retire, to make a recommendation to the Board that Andrew Guillermo fide la Dehesa 21 June 2000 To date Moss, the Group Finance Director be appointed to succeed Richard Harvey as the Group Chief Executive.
As a consequence of the Wim Dik 26 April 2004 To date above the Committee also considered the position of the Group Richard Harvey 21 June 2000 To date Finance Director and made a recommendation to the Board that Philip Scott, Executive Director, Aviva International, be appointed Andr Villeneuve 24 September 2003 31 December 2006 to succeed Andrew Moss in that position.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2006 and the members The above recommendations were approved by the Board and attendance record is set out in the Corporate governance report announced to the Market on 10 January 2007 and will become above.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the effective on 11 July 2007.
Russell Walls was appointed a member of the As part of the 2006 Board performance evaluation the Board Committee on 23 January 2007. reviewed its composition and skills against what it considers The Committee keeps under review the skill requirements of the future issues and challenges facing the Company will be.
the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service The outcome of this review will be taken forward by the and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external Committee during 2007. interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or The Committee has also reviewed the processes for identifying and potential conflicts of interests, including the time available to developing those senior managers throughout the Group who are commit to their duties to the Company.
The Committee also considered to have the potential to succeed members of the monitors the independence of each non-executive director and Groups senior executive.
makes recommendations concerning such to the Board.
The results of these reviews are important when the Board considers In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook succession planning and the re-election and reappointment a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, of directors.
Members of the Committee take no part in any including the Nomination Committee.
discussions concerning their own circumstances.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 28 February 2007.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chairman, Nomination Committee
