Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77 Corporate governance report The Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board and its committees operate in line with work plans The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance agreed prior to the start of each year.
At Board and committee in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should meetings, directors receive regular reports on the Groups financial be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
position, risk management, regulatory compliance, key business The Financial Services Authority requires companies listed in the UK operations and other material issues.
Directors are fully briefed to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how in advance of Board and committee meetings on all matters to they have applied its principles and whether they have complied be discussed.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
Where the following Board procedures and advising the Board, through the provisions have not been complied with companies must provide Chairman, on governance matters.
All directors have access to his an explanation.
The Combined Code was reviewed by the Financial Reporting The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in the Council during 2006 with a revised Code becoming effective in performance of their duties, seek independent professional advice respect of financial years commencing on or after 1 November at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
No director 2006 and accordingly the changes do not apply to the year obtained any such independent professional advice during 2006. under review.
The directors It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant The Board currently comprises the Chairman, six independent nonthroughout the accounting period with the provisions set down executive directors and four executive directors.
Each non-executive in Section 1 of the Combined Code including the changes that director serves for a fixed term not exceeding three years that became effective for financial years commencing on or after may be renewed by mutual agreement.
Subject to the Board 1 November 2006.
This report sets out details of how the being satisfied with a directors performance, independence and Company has applied the principles and complied with the commitment, there is no specified limit regarding the number of provisions of the Combined Code during 2006.
Further information terms a director may serve.
All directors are required to be elected on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following his her website, www.
appointment by the Board and be re-elected at least once every three years.
Any non-executive director who has served on the The Board Board for nine years or more is required to submit himself herself The directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that for re-election annually.
The Boards policy is to appoint and retain the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves its non-executive directors who can apply their wider knowledge and objectives.
It meets regularly to determine the strategic direction, to experiences to their understanding of the Aviva Group, and to review the Companys operating and financial performance and to review and refresh regularly the skills and experience it requires oversee that the Company is adequately resourced and effectively through a programme of rotational retirement.
In addition to the controlled.
The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out strengths of experience, diversity and an international perspective, in its terms of reference that address a wide range of corporate the Board also seeks to comply with the requirements of the governance issues and list those items that are specifically reserved Combined Code on the independence of directors.
The process for decision by the Board.
Matters requiring Board approval include: for appointing new directors is conducted by the Nomination Group strategy and business plans: Committee whose report, including a description of its duties, is set out below.
Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: The Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive Financial reporting and controls: directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Committee Capital structure: performs an annual review of directors interests in which all potential or perceived conflicts, including time commitments, Dividend policy: length of service and other issues relevant to their independence, Shareholder documentation: are considered.
It is the Boards view that an independent nonexecutive director also needs to be able to present an objective, The constitution of Board committees: rigorous and constructive challenge to management, drawing on Key business policies, including the remuneration policy.
his her wider experiences to question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend their beliefs.
To be effective, an Matters that are not specifically reserved to the Board and its independent director needs to acquire a sound understanding of committees under its terms of reference, or to shareholders in the industry and the Company so as to be able to evaluate properly General Meeting, are delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
Having considered the matter carefully The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters that must the Board is of the opinion that all of the current non-executive be reported to the Board, such as significant litigation or material directors are independent and free from any relationship or regulatory breaches, and cover how matters requiring consideration circumstances that could affect, or appear to affect their by the Board that arise between scheduled meetings should be independent judgement.
Accordingly, over half of the directors, dealt with.
excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
Each of the directors being proposed for re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting has been subject to a formal performance evaluation and took part in a peer evaluation review during 2006.
Biographical details of all the directors, including those proposed for re-election, are set out on pages 72 and 73.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 78 Corporate governance report continued The Chairman Following this comprehensive review, the directors have concluded The respective roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are that the Board and its committees operate effectively.
Additionally, set out in the Boards terms of reference.
The Chairmans priority the Chairman has concluded that each director contributes is the management of the Board and the Group Chief Executives effectively and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
priority is the management of the Company.
The Chairmans The Board evaluation process assesses the executive directors in contractual commitment to the Company is two to three days per their capacities as directors of the Company.
They are evaluated week and his main interests outside the Company are set out in his in respect of their executive duties through a separate process biographical details on page 72.
There have been no material whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the changes to these commitments during the year.
Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Executive assesses the executive directors.
Senior independent director The main responsibility of the senior independent director is to Training and development be available to shareholders should they have concerns that they The Board believes strongly in the development of all its employees have been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when and directors and it is a requirement of each directors appointment such channels would be inappropriate.
The senior independent that they commit to continue their development.
The form that this director is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on the development takes is subject to individual directors requirements Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new chairman, and the quality and relevance of the training available.
Wim Dik served as the senior independent During the year, directors attended a number of external courses director throughout 2006. on issues ranging from seminars for members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees to workshops on financial risks and Board effectiveness individual capital assessments.
In addition, members of the Risk The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
and Regulatory Committee received two tailored training induction The Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in order sessions.
Training sessions have been built into the Boards and to assess how well the Board, its committees, the directors and the committees work plans for 2007.
The Board made visits to the Chairman are performing.
The process is led by the Chairman and Groups businesses located in York and India during the year to supported by the Group Company Secretary.
All directors complete gain a closer understanding of their operations.
a questionnaire regarding the Board and committees processes, their effectiveness and where improvements may be considered.
The Board has a comprehensive induction programme consisting of The process also includes a peer review in which directors assess 13 separate sessions which take place over a number of months at their fellow directors performance against set criteria, including times convenient for the director.
The sessions include presentations the skills that they bring to the Company and the contribution from key members of senior management, visits to the Groups they make.
This process is complemented by separate meetings main operating businesses, meetings with the external auditor, and between each director and the Chairman where feedback is one of the Companys corporate brokers.
In 2006 a new format was introduced whereby directors meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper completed a much more comprehensive questionnaire which was understanding on a particular item.
returned to an independent third-party who had helped with the preparation of the questions, and who collated comments, drew the conclusions and presented the findings to the Board.
The performance of the Chairman is also included in the above process and therefore takes into account the views of both the executive, and non-executive, directors.
The Chairmans evaluation is managed by the senior independent director who provides feedback to the Chairman.
As part of the Chairmans evaluation the non-executive directors meet separately under the chairmanship of the senior independent director.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 79 Directors attendance Board committees The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the The Board has established the following standing committees to Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote oversee and debate important issues of policy and oversight sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
outside the main Board meetings.
The attendance of the directors at the Board and committee Audit Committee meetings held in 2006 was as follows: Nomination Committee Board and Board committee attendance 2006 Risk and Regulatory Committee Corporate Risk and Social RemunerCorporate Social Responsibility Committee Audit Nomination Regulatory Responsibility ation Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee.
Number of Throughout the year the chairman of each committee provides meetings the Board with a summary of the key issues considered at the held 10 4 5 3 3 5 meetings of the committees and the minutes of the committee Number of meetings are circulated to the Board.
The committees operate meetings within defined terms of reference, copies of which are published attended on the Companys website www.
com and are available from the Group Company Secretary upon request.
Board committees Guillermo are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as fide la they deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties at the Dehesa 9 10 5 5 2 3 Companys expense.
Wim Dik 10 10 5 5 3 3 3 3 Reports of the committee chairmen are set out below.
Mary Francis 10 10 3 3 5 5 Internal controls The Combined Code requires directors to review and report Richard annually to shareholders on the effectiveness of the Companys Goeltz 10 10 4 4 5 5 systems of internal control which include financial, operational and Richard compliance controls, and risk management.
The Board has the overall responsibility for maintaining the systems of internal control Harvey 10 10 5 5 3 3 of the Company and for monitoring their effectiveness: while the Andrew implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of Moss 10 10 management.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Carole Piwnica 10 10 4 4 3 3 5 5 business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Philip Scott 10 10 The systems are designed to: Lord Safeguard assets: Sharman 10 10 5 5 3 3 Maintain proper accounting records: Patrick Provide reliable financial information: Snowball 10 10 Identify and manage business risks: Russell Walls 10 10 4 4 3 3 Maintain compliance with appropriate legislation and regulation: Former Directors Identify and adopt best practice.
The principal features of the control framework and the methods Derek Stevens 10 10 4 4 3 3 by which the Board satisfies itself that it is operating effectively are detailed below.
Andr Villeneuve 10 10 5 5 5 5 Indicates not a member of that committee.
During 2006 the Chairman and the non-executive directors met on one occasion in the absence of the executive directors and there was one meeting of the non-executive directors chaired by the senior independent director at which the Chairman was not present.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 80 Corporate governance report continued Control environment deteriorating risks that are classified at the highest impact levels.
In The Group has an established governance framework, the key addition, all business unit heads and Group functional heads features of which include: provide a certificate every six months to confirm compliance with the Groups governance and risk management framework, and the Terms of reference for the Board and each of its committees: terms of their delegated authority.
They must also specify any risk A clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of or control issues not already reported through the regular risk authority from the Board to executive management: management processes.
A Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and Control procedures and monitoring systems control standards for the Groups operations worldwide: The Group has a well-developed system of planning, incorporating Board approval of a rolling three-year Group plan.
Performance Defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and against the plan is subsequently monitored and reported to the capital allocation: Board each time it meets.
This report also includes updates on Committees of senior executives responsible for reviewing the relevant measures of solvency and liquidity.
Performance is reported Groups financial risks Asset and Liability Management through the half-yearly publication of the Companys results based Committee and non-financial ie operational risks Group on accounting policies that are applied consistently throughout Operational Risk Committee.
Operational management reports quarterly to the Executive Committee on a wide range of key performance The Groups risk and governance framework has been structured and other significant matters and the Board receives regular in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys risk-based representations from the senior executives responsible for each framework for integrating and embedding risk and capital principal business operation.
Whilst the Audit Committee has the overall responsibility of Risk identification, assessment and management monitoring the Groups internal control process on behalf of the There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Board, it is assisted by the Risk and Regulatory Committee which and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has oversees the regulatory compliance and non-financial control operated throughout 2006 and up to the date of signing this processes and reports to the Board regarding such.
The Groups risk management and control framework is Audit Committee performs an annual review of the effectiveness designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring, of the internal audit function and the framework for the Groups management and control of risks that are significant to the systems of internal control.
Throughout 2006, the Audit achievement of the Groups business objectives.
The Group has a Committee and the Risk and Regulatory Committee received set of formal policies which govern the management and control quarterly reports from the Group Audit Director on issues arising, of both financial and non-financial risks.
The adoption of these and updates on previously reported items.
More detailed reports policies throughout the Group enables a broadly consistent on the work of these committees during 2006 are set out below.
approach to the management of risk at business unit level.
At Group level, policy owners are responsible for the Group-wide The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the aggregation and oversight of their specific risks.
Groups systems of internal control.
Where weaknesses are identified as part of the control review, mitigating actions are taken The Asset and Liability Management Committee is responsible for or plans are put in place.
These are then monitored by the reviewing and monitoring the financial risks to the Group and, with appropriate committee on behalf of the Board.
The Board is not the assistance of its sub-committees, considers the risks relating to aware of any significant weaknesses that do not have mitigating life assurance, general insurance, reserving, capital management, actions in place.
Similarly, a Group Operational Risk Committee monitors risks associated with information technology, Internal audit business protection, human resource management, business The Groups internal audit function advises management on the standards and regulatory compliance.
effectiveness of its internal control systems, the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups Management monitors the completeness of the Groups risk profile assets and resources.
Through the Group Audit Director, the on a regular basis through a Group risk monitoring framework.
internal audit function provides objective assurance on risk and Each quarter, businesses report residual risk profiles and the control to both the Audit Committee and Risk and Regulatory adequacy of the mitigating action programmes, based on local Committee.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function materiality levels.
These impact assessments are based on financial, is reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
During 2006, the reputational and operational criteria.
This enables the Group risk effectiveness of the internal audit peer review process was function to assess the overall risk exposure and to develop a independently evaluated by KPMG LLP KPMG.
Group-wide risk profile that is refreshed quarterly.
Material items in the Group risk report are reported to the committee of the Groups Communication with shareholders senior executives Executive Committee, the Risk and Regulatory The Company places considerable importance on communication Committee and in respect of social, environmental and ethical with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range risks, the Boards Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
The Executive Committee consider whether the residual risks are within the Groups risk appetite, and the adequacy of the The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings mitigating actions.
between the executive directors and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of The Boards, audit committees and management of the operational relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and businesses also consider local risk reports in a similar way.
Regular governance are discussed within the constraints of the information reports are supported by escalation procedures for new or already made public.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 81 The Companys Investor Relations Department is dedicated to Institutional investor facilitating communication with institutional investors.
The directors Morley Fund Management Limited Morley, the Groups asset consider it important to understand the views of shareholders management company, believes that good governance contributes and, in particular, any issues which concern them.
The Board to better performance and practices.
Therefore, as a major investor, receives reports on the matters that have been raised with the Group monitors the governance of the companies in which it management at the regular meetings held with the large investors.
To this end, Morley holds regular meetings with the senior During the year the Chairman and the senior independent director management of companies where it will raise matters which may held a meeting with the major institutional investors and the senior affect the future performance of those companies.
independent director attended investor meetings with Morley maintains a detailed Corporate Governance and Voting management.
In addition, the senior independent director is Policy as part of its investment strategy, which underpins its available to meet with major shareholders to discuss any areas of approach to engaging and voting at company general meetings.
concern that cannot be resolved through normal channels of The policy also extends to cover social, environmental and ethical investor communication and arrangements can be made to meet issues.
Its policy is applied pragmatically, after careful consideration with the senior independent director through the Group Company of all relevant information.
In addition, Morley makes detailed Secretary.
Similarly, arrangements can be made for major voting reports available to clients and publishes summary statistics shareholders to meet with newly appointed directors.
The Board consults with shareholders in connection with specific issues where it considers appropriate.
For example, the chairman Directors responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee met with institutional shareholder The directors are required to prepare accounts for each accounting bodies and a number of major shareholders in 2006 regarding period that comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies the Companys proposed changes to the directors pension Act 1985 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS arrangements and the introduction of a long-term savings as adopted by the European Union, and which present fairly the arrangement, details of which are set out in the Directors financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the remuneration report below.
Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period.
A fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private IFRS requires the directors to: shareholders and, on its behalf, the Group Company Secretary oversees communication with these investors.
It is the practice select suitable accounting policies and verify they are applied of the Company to issue a postage paid reply form with its consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going concern basis Annual General Meeting documentation to enable shareholders unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the to put relevant questions to the directors.
This is considered to be Group will continue in business: particularly helpful for those shareholders who are unable to attend present information, including accounting policies, in a the meeting.
Written responses are provided through a brochure manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and containing answers to the most frequently asked questions that is understandable information: also placed on the Companys website.
All material information reported to the regulatory news services is simultaneously published provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific on the Companys website affording all shareholders full access to requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand Company announcements.
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and the Groups financial position and financial The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a valuable performance: and opportunity for the Board to communicate with private investors.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined state that the Company and the Group have complied with Code as it relates to voting, the separation of resolutions and applicable IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and the attendance of committee chairmen.
Whenever possible, all explained in the accounts.
directors attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting are invited to ask questions during the meeting and have an records which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, opportunity to meet with the directors following the conclusion of at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group.
the formal part of the meeting.
In line with the revised Combined They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of internal Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the assets of withheld, are made available on request and are placed on the the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection Companys website following the meeting.
of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the systems The Companys annual report and accounts and annual review, of internal controls maintained by the Group are more fully together with the Companys interim reports, trading statements described above.
and other public announcements are designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and Going concern prospects.
The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation review, and Business review provide an assessment of the Groups that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate affairs and they will be supported by a presentation to be made at resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the Annual General Meeting.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
