The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 27 Corporate Governance Introduction The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that The directors are accountable to shareholders for the the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the governance of the Companys affairs.
appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors This statement describes how the principles of the retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 have The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current been applied to the affairs of the Company.
In applying the experience of various disciplines.
principles of the Code, the directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate the breadth Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant which established a framework of best practice specifically to their positions as directors on the Board of the Company.
for the boards of investment trust companies.
Chairman Application of the Codes Principles The Chairman, Mr Richard Brewster, is an independent nonThe Board attaches importance to the matters set out in both executive director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since the Code and the AIC Code and observes the relevant Main all directors are non-executive and day to day management and Supporting Principles.
It should be noted that, as an responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the investment trust, most of the Companys day to day Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the Code Senior Independent Director are directly applicable to the Company.
Mr Francis Sumner was appointed as Senior Independent Director from the conclusion of the 2005 AGM.
Board Independence and Composition The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are Meetings non-executive.
Following the introduction of the Code the Currently the Board meets eight times per annum and is directors have reviewed their independence.
The Nominations responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys Committee has considered the continued appointment of affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at Mr Brewster, Mr Morley and Mr Sumner who have all served various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the on the Board for over nine years.
They have no other links to Board may be arranged as required, as was the case this year the Manager, a wide range of other interests and are not when a separate strategy meeting was held.
The Board has a dependent in any way on the Company itself and the formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its Nominations Committee concluded that they continue to make decision which are categorised under various headings a valuable contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial length of service, they remain independent in character and reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share judgement.
The Nominations Committee also considered the price discount, contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment continued appointment of Mr Thomas and Mr Killingbeck who restrictions, performance, corporate governance and board retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to subscribes to the AIC Codes view that length of tenure is not in discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and itself felt to be an issue, and does not diminish the directors timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the contribution.
The Board is conscious of the need to maintain Board reviews the Companys investment performance and continuity on the Board, and believes that retaining directors considers financial analyses and other reports of an with sufficient experience of both the Company and the markets operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the is of great benefit to shareholders.
Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset 28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued allocation parameters, investment and gearing limits within the Committees members has recent and relevant financial which the Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, the management of the investment portfolio, which is which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has The Committee meets at least twice each year to review the responsibility for the approval of unquoted investments and internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and all investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors in the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders and to furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional review the accounting policies and significant financial advice at the expense of the Company.
In addition, the Committee reviews the The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these appointment and remuneration, the quality of the services of meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the the service providers to the Company, and, together with the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
Managers, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
Representatives of the The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees Managers internal audit and compliance department attend held during the year and the attendance of individual these meetings at the Chairmans request.
All directors attend the Annual General Meeting.
Representatives of  LLP, the Companys auditors, attend the Committee meeting at which the draft Board Additional Audit Nominations Management Charities Annual Report and financial statements are reviewed and are Strategy Committee Committee Engagement Committee Meeting given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members No of meetings 81321 2 without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
Mr R D Brewster 8 1 2 1 2 1 The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the Mr R R Burns 5 1 n a 1 1 n a 2 AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
Mr R W Killingbeck81121 n a Mr J Morley 8131 1 n a Mr F I Sumner 81311 2 Management Engagement Committee Mr D G Thomas 7121 1 n a The Management Engagement Committees membership The membership of each committee is shown on page 19. comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Burns, Mr Killingbeck, Mr Morley, Mr Sumner and Mr Thomas.
The Chairman of the Committee Notes: 1.
Mr Burns was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2006 and to the Management is Mr Brewster.
The Committee meets at least annually to Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee with effect from 24 March 2006. review the investment management agreement with the 2.
Mr Killingbeck was appointed a member of the Audit Committee on 24 March 2006.
Companys Manager and to review the services provided by Attended by invitation.
Board Committees Nomination Committee The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set out The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Burns, below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck.
The Chairman of the the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are Nomination Committee is Mr Brewster.
The Committee, which available on the website or on request and will be available meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and structure for inspection at the AGM.
and is responsible for Board succession planning.
The other members of the Board may attend meetings of the Audit Committee Nominations Committee by invitation.
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Morley, Mr Sumner, Mr Thomas and Mr Killingbeck, all of whom are considered The Board has in the past used an external recruitment independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is consultant when appointing a new director.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 29 Corporate Governance continued Charities Committee by the AIC Code.
However, as three of the directors have served The Charities Committee comprises Mr Sumner and on the Board for more than nine years their independence is Mr Brewster who consider requests for charitable donations of assessed according to the criteria set out in the Combined Code a limited nature within set criteria.
During the year donations Code provision A.
In light of Code provision A.
7.2, the were made totalling 6,000 2005: 3,500. directors who have served for nine years or more, will be seeking annual re-election from shareholders.
Under the Companys articles of association all directors must retire at the Directors Remuneration next annual general meeting after they attain the age of 70.
As the Board has no executive directors and no employees and is comprised solely of non-executives, it does not have a Remuneration Committee.
The Company therefore is not Directors Training required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a of executive directors remuneration.
It is the responsibility of training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Mr Burns the Board as a whole to determine and approve directors attended such a training seminar during the year.
Directors are fees following proper consideration having regard to the level also provided on a regular basis with key information on the of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry Companys activities including regulatory and statutory generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Board and Committee responsibilities and the time directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they committed to the Companys affairs.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
The Chairmans remuneration is decided and approved by the Board under the leadership of the Senior Independent Performance Evaluation Director.
The Companys Articles of Association limit the The Board aggregate fees payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the per annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has put arrangements for the directors of the Company can be found in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
This was in the directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26. implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, interviews were Tenure Policy held between the directors and the Senior Independent No director has a contract of employment with the Company.
The process is considered by the Board to be Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the letters of appointment which are available for inspection at functioning and performance of the Board and the the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as the AGM.
building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Articles of Association provide that one-third of the directors must retire by rotation and may offer themselves for The Company re-election at each AGM.
The terms of the directors The performance of the Company is considered in detail at appointment also provide that a director shall retire and be each Board meeting.
subject to re-election at the first AGM after appointment and The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice at least every three years thereafter.
and services provided by the Manager which, through its The Board believes that each of the directors exercises nominated representative is responsible for ensuring that the independent judgement and that length of service does not Board and Committee procedures are followed and that diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a directors applicable regulations are complied with.
During the year the experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is a Company has maintained insurance cover in respect of legal positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, long-serving directors action against the directors: this does not cover fraud, are less likely to take a short-term view.
This view is supported negligence or wilful default.
30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager The Manager and custodian maintain their own systems of The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at each internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive Board meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the Manager.
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather In the opinion of the directors the continued appointment of than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
the Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating investment management resources and wide experience in and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
managing and administering investment trust companies.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and the Combined Code published in September 1999 the other external third parties, the management of the Turnbull Guidance which was revised by the FRC in investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the October 2005. safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company secretarial, administration and registration services.
The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper review of the Companys system of internal control and the consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the business risks have been analysed and recorded in a risk map services offered, including the control systems in operation in which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
from the Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly The Board receives and considers regular reports from the the responsibility of the Manager, and which reports the details Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each the Board as required.
year from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on Internal Controls the control policies and procedures in operation.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These The Company does not have an internal audit function: it controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are delegates to third parties its day to day operations and does safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and not employ any staff.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the the financial information used within the business and for procedures used by the Managers Internal Audit department, publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering and has concluded that they are sufficient for the Company financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is to rely on.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of regular internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates investment performance and attribution statements, financial as intended and the directors review annually whether a and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a quarterly control function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Key risks have been identified and controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, including those risks that are Financial Reporting not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The effectiveness The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance Accounts is set out on page 26, the Independent Auditors and risk department on a continuing basis and is also reviewed Report on pages 53 and 54 and the Statement of Going by the Company.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 31 Corporate Governance continued Voting Policy as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
The Company has approved a corporate governance voting Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the policy which accords with current best practice whilst AGM are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
at the address given on page 60.
At other times the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Relations with Shareholders General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
communicates with shareholders is through the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts which aim to provide Statement of Compliance shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys The directors consider that the Company has complied with activities and their results.
This information is supplemented all material provisions of the Code throughout the accounting by the daily calculation and by the publication at the Stock period ended 31 October 2006.
The Company is compliant Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary with the AIC Code.
shares and a monthly fact sheet.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager New Zealand Listing following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
Investors can find more information regarding the UK Codes of Corporate It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Governance on www.
Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so
