Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance report Chairmans Introduction Statement from Barclays PLC Board of Directors I am pleased to present my first Corporate Governance report as For the year ended 31st December 2006, we have complied with the Chairman of Barclays.
We report to you below, as we are required to do, provisions set out in section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate on how we have complied with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and applied the principles of the Code as Governance in 2006.
Good corporate governance is, however, more described below.
The Code was revised with effect from 1st November than a mere statement of compliance.
It should aim to set the highest 2006 and the revised Code applies to Barclays with effect from standards which should permeate the entire organisation and 1st January 2007. everything it does.
Barclays has a strong ethos of corporate governance, Board Structure and Composition endorsed and upheld by the Board.
I see it as a key part of my role as At the date of this report, the Board is comprised of the Chairman, five Chairman to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance executive Directors and nine non-executive Directors.
The roles of and to ensure that we seek compliance with best practice provisions Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and each has clearly defined wherever possible.
I am indebted to my predecessor as Chairman, responsibilities.
The Chairmans main role is to lead and manage the Matthew Barrett, for the strong legacy I have inherited.
Our corporate work of the Board to ensure that it operates effectively, provides governance framework, published in Corporate Governance in appropriate challenge and support for the executive management and 2 Barclays, is a comprehensive statement of our values and how we put fully discharges its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Group Chief them into practice at Barclays.
We review this statement annually to Executive is responsible for the day to day management of the Group, ensure it remains relevant and current and you can find a copy on our for leading the executive Directors, for recommending strategy to the website at www.
Board and for making and implementing operational decisions.
The Chairmans role is described fully in our Charter of Expectations, which sets out the role profile for each of the main positions on the Board, including the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairmen.
The Charter of Expectations can be found at www.
Our aim is to have a Board that has an appropriate balance of skills and Marcus Agius experience to support our strategy.
In line with the recommendations Chairman of the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are 8th March 2007 independent non-executive Directors.
The current balance between executive and non-executive Directors is illustrated in the chart.
Further details of the Boards assessment of the independence of non-executive Directors can be found on page 119.
Balance of non-executive and executive Directors Chairman 1 Independent Executive Directors non-executive 5 Directors 9 Sir Richard Broadbent continued as Senior Independent Director during the year.
The role of Senior Independent Director is important in providing an additional contact for major shareholders and in monitoring the performance of the Chairman.
We have set out what we expect of the role in our Charter of Expectations.
During 2006, Sir Richard met with a number of institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies to discuss their views on the Group.
He also led the Chairmans performance evaluation process, consulting with the other non-executive Directors.
We made a number of changes to the Board during the year.
Frits Seegers joined the Board in July 2006 to head our Global Retail and Commercial Banking businesses.
As part of this realignment of our operations, we announced that David Roberts would leave the Board in late 2006 and that Gary Hoffman had been appointed as ViceChairman.
One of Garys key responsibilities is leading our corporate responsibility agenda.
In September 2006, we announced that Matthew Barrett would retire as Chairman at the end of 2006 and that Marcus Agius would succeed him as Chairman.
Marcus joined the Board on 1st September 2006 as a non-executive Director.
He became Chairman on 1st January 2007 and was independent on appointment.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 117 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Fulvio Conti, Chief Executive of Enel SpA, the Italian energy company, implement approved strategy.
joined the Board in April 2006 and brings to the Board both international Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings experience and financial expertise: Fulvio was previously Chief Financial All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each Officer of Enel SpA.
Sir David Arculus retired as a non-executive Director meeting of Board Committees of which they are members, unless in April 2006, having served for nine years, and Robert Steel resigned there are exceptional circumstances that prevent them from doing so.
from the Board in October 2006 in order to take up a senior position in Meeting dates are generally set well in advance to enable Directors to the US Treasury.
On the few occasions where a We review the balance and composition of our Board and its principal Director is unable to attend a particular meeting, he or she will usually Committees regularly to ensure that we have an appropriate balance discuss the matters to be considered with the Chairman of the meeting and a good mix of skills and experience.
We also consider the need to to ensure their views are taken into account.
refresh the Board and Committees.
All Directors invested the time required in 2006 to discharge their responsibilities to the Board and, in the case of non-executive Directors, Length of tenure of non-executive Directors they each met the time commitment expected of them as set out in our Over 9 years Charter of Expectations.
All Directors, including the Chairman, must 1 report any material change in their circumstances to the Board for 6-9 years consideration.
Executive Directors are permitted to serve on one other 1 listed company board in addition to their duties at Barclays and such 0-3 years 5 appointments must be submitted to the Board for prior approval.
The significant other commitments of Directors are reported in their 3-6 years biographies on pages 112 and 113.
2 Board Meetings Number of meetings Number of eligible to meetings attend attended Geographical mix main experience Director in 2006 in 2006 of non-executive Directors Matthew W Barrett 8 8 Marcus Agius from 1st September 2006 3 3 Other Sir David Arculus to 27th April 2006 3 3 2 Sir Richard Broadbent 8 8 Leigh Clifford 8 6 Fulvio Conti from 1st April 2006 6 6 UK 6 Europe Dr Danie Cronj 8 8 1 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 8 8 Robert E Diamond Jr 8 8 Gary Hoffman 8 8 Naguib Kheraj 8 8 Sir Andrew Likierman 8 8 David Roberts 8 8 Role of the Board Sir Nigel Rudd 8 8 The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and sustaining Stephen Russell 8 8 shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses.
Frits Seegers from 10th July 2006 4 3 It is also responsible for ensuring that management maintain a system Robert Steel to 11th October 2006 6 5 of internal control that provides assurance of effective and efficient Sir John Sunderland 8 7 operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and John Varley 8 8 regulation.
The Board is the decision-making body for all matters deemed material to the Group in strategic, financial and reputational terms.
Eight full Board meetings took place in 2006 and the table sets out each Directors attendance record.
The meetings included a full day offsite The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, meeting, devoted to review and approval of Group strategy.
The including the approval of interim and final financial statements, Chairman usually meets privately with all the non-executive Directors significant changes in accounting policy and practice, the appointment prior to each Board meeting to brief them on the business to be or removal of Directors or the Company Secretary, changes to the considered and to hear any concerns they may have.
Eight such Groups capital structure and major acquisitions, mergers, disposals and meetings took place in 2006.
In addition to the eight full meetings held capital expenditure.
Further details of the matters reserved to the Board in 2006, two additional Board meetings were held, involving the can be found in the document, Corporate Governance in Barclays.
Chairman, Group Chief Executive and non-executive Directors only, to Specific responsibilities have been delegated to Board Committees, consider the respective appointments of Frits Seegers and Marcus which have access to independent expert advice at the Groups expense.
The additional meeting to consider the appointment The terms of reference of our principal Board Committees are available at of Marcus Agius was chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd.
The principal Board Committees and their activities during 2006 are described on pages 120 to 123.
Responsibility for the day to day management of the Group is delegated to the Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the Group Executive Committee, which he chairs.
The Committee meets weekly to develop strategies and policies for recommendation to the Board and to Barclays PLC 118 Annual Report 2006 Governance Regular items for Board meetings include the Finance Directors Report, Appointment of Directors The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is the Group Chief Executives Report on the key issues affecting the Group and operational performance, strategy updates from the main responsible for overseeing the process for appointing new Directors to the Board and it reports on its activities during 2006 on page 120. businesses or functions and reports from each of the principal Board Committees.
Strategy execution updates presented in 2006 included UK The process for nominating Directors for appointment is set out in Corporate Governance in Barclays.
Retail Banking, International Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Capital, Barclaycard, Barclays Global Investors and UK Business Banking.
Induction and Training The Board also received strategy updates from the Chief Information All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction, tailored to their Officer and a report on the integration of Absa.
Updates are also provided individual requirements, when they join the Board or a Board on the Groups strategy and business in key global regions.
The induction is arranged by the Company Secretary and out how the Board allocated its time at its meetings during 2006. includes training on Directors duties and responsibilities in addition to meetings with the heads of all the major businesses and functions.
Board allocation of time Training is normally delivered over the initial six-month period following Other the Directors appointment.
On an ongoing basis, the Company 2 11% Secretary facilitates additional training and updates for Directors on particular issues, such as Sarbanes-Oxley and Basel II.
A two-year Governance and Risk programme of business training for non-executive Directors began in Strategy Formulation 15% and Implementation 2006, with non-executive Directors attending sessions hosted by Monitoring International Retail and Commercial Banking and UK Business Banking.
40% Further sessions are planned for 2007.
We also aim to hold some of our Board meetings away from our global Financial and headquarters to allow Directors the opportunity to meet our frontline Operational Performance staff and to see our operations at first hand.
During 2006, a Board 34% meeting was held at our Barclaycard headquarters in Northampton and further offsite visits will be made in 2007.
In addition, non-executive It is part of the Chairmans role to ensure that Directors receive accurate, Directors are encouraged to make site visits individually or to liaise with timely and clear information about the Groups performance, to enable senior management on particular areas of interest.
the Board to take sound decisions, to monitor effectively and to provide advice to promote the success of the Group.
The Chairman works Re-election of Directors closely with the Company Secretary to ensure that information flows to All Directors are required to seek re-election at least every three years Directors promptly.
Supporting papers for Board and Board Committee in accordance with the recommendations of the Code.
Sir Nigel Rudd, meetings are generally distributed at least one week in advance of each who has served on the Board since 1996, seeks re-election annually as meeting.
During the year, a Directors Intranet was launched, which recommended by the Code.
Details of Directors proposed for re-election enables all Directors to access electronic copies of Board papers, at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM are given in the Directors reports, minutes and other key documents quickly and securely via a Report on page 114 and in the Notice of Meeting, which is included dedicated private network.
In addition, all Directors have access to the separately with the Annual Report.
services of the Company Secretary and his team, who, amongst other Independence of non-executive Directors things, facilitate information requests and meetings for non-executive The Code set outs circumstances which may appear relevant to the Directors with senior management.
Independent professional advice is Boards determination of whether a non-executive Director is also available, on request, to all Directors at the Companys expense.
The Board has also concluded that the following behaviours Board Effectiveness are essential for the Board to consider a Director to be independent and We conduct an annual review of the Boards performance, which covers assesses each non-executive Director against these criteria: the effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees and individual Provides objective challenge to management.
Following the 2005 Board Effectiveness Review, the Board Is prepared to challenge others assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints concluded that it was operating effectively.
An action plan was put as necessary for the good of the organisation.
together to address those areas where the Board felt that some Questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously improvements could be made.
The actions were primarily focused on and decides dispassionately.
ensuring that the Board gained a deeper understanding of the Groups Is willing to stand up to defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in competitive position and the health of the customer franchise.
As a order to support the ultimate good of the organisation.
result, improvements were made to the competitor monitoring and Has a good understanding of the organisations businesses and customer franchise health reports received by the Board.
The Board affairs to enable them to properly evaluate the information and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee monitored the responses provided by management.
progress of the action plan during 2006.
The Board considers the issue of independence on an annual basis.
For our 2006 Board Effectiveness Review, we again asked Egon Zehnder The Board reviewed the independence of non-executive Directors in International independently to facilitate the evaluation process.
This February 2007 and concluded that each of them continues to took the form of a detailed questionnaire completed by each Director demonstrate the behaviours it considers to be essential indicators of and supplementary individual interviews, including peer evaluation of independence.
In the case of Sir Nigel Rudd, the Board considered the fellow Directors.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the length of his tenure on the Board when assessing his independence.
Board in December 2006 and the Board concluded that it continues to However, the Board concluded that he continued to demonstrate the operate effectively.
Areas to be covered in the action plan for 2007 independent behaviours set out above and that his length of tenure was include the provision of additional training on risk issues, including risk actually an aid to his independence, given his knowledge and experience management and measurement, and continued work on agenda of the Group.
In the case of Dr Danie Cronj, the Board gave particular management to ensure there is sufficient time for rigorous debate and consideration to his position as Chairman of Absa when assessing his exchange of ideas.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 119 Corporate governance Corporate governance report independence, but has determined that, as Dr Cronj demonstrates the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee above behaviours, he should be regarded as independent.
Number of meetings Number of Board Committees eligible to meetings The Board has four principal Board Committees, each of which reports attend attended on its activities below.
Board Committee members are appointed by the Member in 2006 in 2006 Board on the recommendation of the Board Corporate Governance and Matthew W Barrett Chairman to Nominations Committee, which reviews the composition of each 31st December 2006 5 5 Committee regularly.
Committee members are expected to attend each Marcus Agius member and Chairman Committee meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances that from 1st January 2007 n a n a prevent them from doing so.
The Company Secretary, Lawrence Sir David Arculus to 27th April 2006 1 1 Dickinson, is secretary to the Board Audit Committee, Board Corporate Sir Richard Broadbent 5 5 Governance and Nominations Committee and Board Risk Committee Sir Nigel Rudd 5 5 and the Deputy Secretary, Patrick Gonsalves, is Secretary to the Board Stephen Russell 5 4 HR and Remuneration Committee.
Sir John Sunderland from 1st September 2006 1 1 Board HR and Remuneration Committee The Committee met five times in 2006, including two meetings to deal Number of exclusively with the appointment of the new Chairman.
The table sets meetings Number of eligible to meetings out Committee members attendance at meetings in 2006.
The attend attended Committee consists of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Senior Member in 2006 in 2006 Independent Director and the Chairmen of the main Board Committees.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman to 31st December 2006 4 4 Other Directors may be appointed by the Board to the Committee, provided it always has a majority of independent non-executive Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman from 1st January 2007 4 4 Directors, and Sir John Sunderland was appointed to the Committee in September.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except Marcus Agius from 1st January 2007 n a n a Sir David Arculus to 27th April 2006 1 1 when the Committee is considering the Chairmans succession, in which case the Deputy Chairman takes the chair.
The Group Chief Leigh Clifford 4 3 Sir John Sunderland 4 4 Executive, while not a member of the Committee, attends meetings at the request of the Chairman.
Matthew Barrett chaired the Committee The Committee met four times in 2006 and the table sets out during 2006 until his retirement on 31st December 2006.
Marcus Agius was appointed to the Committee from 1st January 2007 and as Committee members attendance.
The Committee was chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd during 2006, who stepped down from the Committee Chairman of the Committee from the same date.
Sir Richard Broadbent became Chairman on The Committees role is set out in its terms of reference, which are 1st January 2007.
Marcus Agius joined the Committee on 1st January available at www.
2007, following the revisions made to the Code to permit the Chairman of the Board to be a member of the Committee, provided he or she is Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee independent on appointment.
allocation of time Board HR and Remuneration Committee allocation of time Corporate Governance Other 5% Board matters effectiveness 16% Other 6% 15% Talent 24% Remuneration other including pensions Board and Committee 33% composition including Remuneration succession planning incentive 64% 37% The chart sets out how the Committee allocated its time during 2006.
The chart shows how the Committee allocated its time at its meetings in During 2006, the Committee regularly reviewed Board Committee composition to ensure that the Committees continued to have strong 2006.
The Committees role and its activities during 2006 are described more fully in the Remuneration report, which can be found on pages and balanced representation.
It recommended the appointment of Fulvio Conti to the Board Audit Committee in order to bring additional 125 to 140. financial expertise to that Committee.
It also recommended the In late 2006, the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness as appointment of Sir Richard Broadbent as Chairman of the Board HR and part of the overall Board Effectiveness Review.
The review concluded Remuneration Committee in succession to Sir Nigel Rudd and, following that the Committee is operating effectively.
changes to the Code, recommended the appointment of Marcus Agius to that Committee.
The Committee received regular reports on the progress of the action plan arising from the 2005 Board Effectiveness Review and monitored the completion of the actions on behalf of the Board.
It also received updates on changes in corporate governance best practice and developments in company law, particularly the new statement of Directors Duties contained in the Companies Act 2006.
Barclays PLC 120 Annual Report 2006 Governance The main area of focus for the Committee in 2006 was the process of The Committee met eight times in 2006 and the table sets out identifying and appointing a successor to Matthew Barrett as Chairman.
Fulvio Conti was appointed to the Sir Nigel Rudd led the Committee during this process and he reports on Committee in September and Robert Steel left the Committee on it separately below.
The Committee also received a report from the resigning from the Board in October.
Sir Andrew Likierman continued Group Chief Executive on executive succession planning.
in his role as the designated financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended by the Code.
The Boards assessment Chairmans Succession is based on Sir Andrews accounting background and his career with During 2006, I was tasked with leading the Committee in the process HM Treasury, further details of which can be found in his biography of selecting and recommending a successor to Matthew Barrett as on page 112.
Fulvio Conti, who has held a number of Chief Financial Chairman.
On behalf of the Committee, I engaged a firm of external Officer positions during his career, brings additional, relevant financial recruitment consultants to identify potential candidates against the experience to the Committee.
specification for the role set out in the Chairmans role profile and the criteria we had established.
We particularly wanted candidates with Board Audit Committee allocation of time a good understanding of the financial services industry and proven 2 Other ability as Chairman of a large publicly quoted company, whether in Internal control issues Governance and 1% 13% compliance the UK or globally.
15% The Committee reviewed a short-list of internal and external candidates.
Marcus Agius emerged as the candidate with the Financial results experience and capability to succeed Matthew Barrett as Chairman.
27% Business control I facilitated a series of meetings between Marcus, the Group Chief environment Executive and members of the Committee before the Committee 21% recommended to the Board that we proceed with his appointment.
Marcus then met with other Directors and I am delighted that the External audit matters 7% Internal audit matters Board accepted the Committees recommendation to appoint him 16% as Chairman.
I would like to record my thanks to Matthew Barrett for his The chart sets out how the Committee allocated its time at its meetings assistance in ensuring a smooth transition to the new leadership during 2006. team.
In Marcus Agius I believe we have found a worthy successor A typical meeting of the Committee includes a report on control issues as Chairman.
He has a proven track record in financial services and of Group level significance, along with an in-depth review of the control as Chairman of a major public company and I look forward to environment at one of the Groups major businesses and progress working with him and supporting him in 2007. reports on any particular aspects of the Groups control environment that may have been requested by the Committee.
It also includes a report on the non-audit services provided by the auditor, an update on Sir Nigel Rudd, DL regulatory compliance issues and any whistleblowing incidents and a Deputy Chairman report from the Barclays Director of Internal Audit, including a private 8th March 2007 session held without management present.
Stephen Russell, the Chairman of the Committee, reports on the In late 2006, the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness as Committees activities in more detail below.
part of the overall Board Effectiveness Review.
The review concluded that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
Board Audit Committee Chairmans Statement Board Audit Committee I am pleased to report to you on the Committees activities in 2006.
We also met privately with the external Number of meetings Number of and internal auditors after five of our meetings.
eligible to meetings attend attended Our responsibilities as your Board Audit Committee are set out Member in 2006 in 2006 in the Committees terms of reference, which are available at www.
I have set out below some Stephen Russell Chairman 8 8 of the key activities of the Committee in 2006.
Fulvio Conti from 1st September 2006 3 3 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 8 7 External Auditors Sir Andrew Likierman 8 8 Our responsibilities include approving and reviewing the appointment Robert Steel to 11th October 2006 6 5 and retirement of the external auditors and overseeing their relationship with the Group.
In late 2006, we carried out our annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the external auditors, using an evaluation questionnaire, which was completed by senior members of the Finance function.
The results of the effectiveness review were considered at our meeting in February 2007.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 121 Corporate governance Corporate governance report We also continued to monitor the independence of the external We also monitored throughout the year the Groups preparations for auditors.
We have in place a policy on the provision of non-audit reporting under s404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, under services by the external auditors and we received regular reports which the external auditors need to attest to the effectiveness of throughout the year on the nature and amount of the non-audit the Groups systems of internal controls over financial reporting.
Under the policy, we have agreed which services We received a progress report at each of our meetings on the status the external auditors are allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group of the Groups preparations for s404.
and which ones they are prohibited from doing.
Prohibited services For the disclosures made in the 2006 Annual Report, we reviewed include bookkeeping or other services related to the Groups the report of the Disclosure Committee and the Turnbull attestations accounting records or financial statements, financial information made by all Business Heads, and have concluded and reported to systems design and implementation, internal audit outsourcing, the Board for its approval that the Group has maintained effective management functions or other secondments, human resource disclosure controls and procedures and that management has functions, legal and expert services and tax services that involve continued to operate an effective system of internal control.
Any allowable non-audit services require the pre-approval of the Committee or a member of the Committee before they can be Regulatory Compliance and Whistleblowing Procedures carried out.
For these allowable services, the Committee has preWe reviewed the arrangements established by management for approved all assignments where the expected fee does not exceed compliance with the requirements of the Groups regulators, 100,000, or 10,000 in the case of certain taxation services, receiving a semi-annual report on compliance issues.
In particular although such assignments must be reported to the next meeting of this year we have spent time reviewing the Groups controls over the Committee.
Any assignment where the expected fee is above the fraud and financial crime and are responsible for reviewing the relevant threshold requires specific approval from the Committee.
fraud risk control framework annually.
We also reviewed the Where any service requires approval from the Committee, Groups sanctions compliance arrangements during the year.
management must give details of the other potential providers that We received regular reports on the effectiveness of the Groups were considered.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external whistleblowing arrangements, as well as reports on any specific auditors during the year is set out on page 171. instances of whistleblowing.
We are responsible for reviewing the For the year ended 31st December 2006, we concluded that the Groups whistleblowing process annually.
external auditors remain independent and are effective.
We have Committee Effectiveness therefore recommended to the Board that it proposes the In late 2006, we carried out a review of our effectiveness as part of reappointment of the external auditors to shareholders at the the overall Board Effectiveness Review.
The review concluded that 2007 AGM.
the Committee continues to operate effectively.
Relationship with internal audit and monitoring control issues Signed on behalf of the Board Audit Committee As part of our task of monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the Director of Internal Audit, who has a functional reporting line to the Committee, attended six Committee meetings in 2006.
I received a monthly report from the Director of Internal Audit, which covered key performance indicators and a trend analysis of Stephen Russell internal audit findings.
At four Committee meetings in 2006, we Chairman, Board Audit Committee reviewed the progress of the internal audit plan and in December we 8th March 2007 held a separate meeting to consider and agree the internal audit plan for 2007.
Board Risk Committee Throughout the year, we regularly reviewed the level of resources Number of meetings Number of allocated to the internal audit function to ensure that the internal eligible to meetings audit plan could be delivered as part of our overall monitoring of the attend attended effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Member in 2006 in 2006 During the year, we reviewed regular reports on control issues of Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman 4 4 Group level significance, including details of any remediation action Dr Danie Cronj 4 4 being taken.
We also received a number of in-depth reports from Sir Andrew Likierman 4 4 some of the Groups main business areas and functions on their Stephen Russell 4 4 control environment, with presentations from Absa, UK Retail Banking, Barclaycard, Barclays Wealth and the Chief Information The Committee met four times in 2006 and the table sets out Office.
Our aim is to review in detail the control environment at each Committee members attendance.
of the Groups main businesses and operations over a rolling two-year The role of the Committee is to review and to recommend to the Board period.
In addition, in 2006 we undertook a wider overall review of the the Groups overall risk appetite, setting limits for individual types of risk, Groups Control Environment, including consideration of key trends including credit and market risk.
The Committee also considers material over the past three years.
changes to risk appetite and monitors the Groups risk profile, including Financial Reporting risk trends and concentrations, loan impairment experience against We reviewed the Groups annual and interim financial statements budget and key performance indicators for risk.
The Committee also and trading updates, including reviewing the effectiveness of the seeks assurance that the principal risks facing the Group have been Groups disclosure controls and procedures and systems of internal properly identified and are being appropriately managed.
In order to control as appropriate.
assess the effectiveness of the Groups risk control framework, the Committee regularly reviews the Groups risk measurement systems and receives reports from management confirming that they have reviewed the Groups risk control standards.
The Committee is also Barclays PLC 122 Annual Report 2006 Governance responsible for approving certain policy statements required by the FSA.
Board Committees An overview of the Groups risk management and control framework We have a Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee can be found on pages 68 to 75. and a Board HR and Remuneration rather than Compensation Committee, both of which are broadly comparable in purpose and During 2006, the Committee reviewed the Groups preparations for constitution to those required by the NYSE Rules and whose terms of Basel II, receiving a report on progress at each meeting.
It also reviewed reference comply with the Codes requirements.
Beyond the fact that key risk issues, including an in-depth review of the Groups personal the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is lending impairment experience and received presentations on tax risk chaired by the Chairman of the Board and that, from 1st January 2007, and the credit control environment in our UK Business Banking the Chairman is a member of the Board HR and Remuneration operations.
The Committee also reviewed the comparative risk stance Committee, both of which are permitted by the revised Code, both taken by the Group in particular risk areas, such as mortgage Committees are composed solely of non-executive Directors whom underwriting, market risk and commercial property lending.
the Board has determined to be independent.
We follow the Code The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, recommendation that a majority of the Nominations Committee should which are available at www.
be independent non-executive Directors, whereas the NYSE Rules state 2 that the Committee must be composed entirely of independent Board Risk Committee allocation of time Directors.
We comply with the NYSE Rules regarding the obligation to Other have a Board Audit Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 7% 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements Regulatory relating to the independence of Committee members.
In April 2006, frameworks we made an Annual Written Affirmation of our compliance with these Risk profile 17% Risk appetite requirements to the NYSE.
The Code also requires us to have a Board 40% Audit Committee comprised solely of independent non-executive Internal control Directors.
We follow the Code recommendations, rather than the Risk policies NYSE Rules, however, regarding the responsibilities of the Board Audit 10% Committee, although both are broadly comparable.
We also have a Board Risk Committee, comprised of independent non-executive Key Risk issues Directors, which considers and discusses policies with respect to risk 26% assessment and risk management.
The chart sets out how the Committee allocated its time at its meetings Corporate Governance Guidelines during 2006.
The NYSE Rules require domestic US companies to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
There is no equivalent In late 2006, the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness as recommendation in the Code.
The Board Corporate Governance part of the overall Board Effectiveness Review.
The review concluded and Nominations Committee has, however, developed corporate that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
governance guidelines, entitled Corporate Governance in Barclays, Statement on US Corporate Governance standards which have been approved and adopted by the Board.
As a non-US company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Code of Ethics we are exempt from most of the NYSEs Corporate Governance rules The NYSE Rules require that domestic US companies adopt and disclose the NYSE Rules, which domestic US companies must follow.
However, a code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers and we are subject to the NYSE rules requiring us to have a Board Audit employees.
Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged in the Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US NYSE Rules, we have a number of values based business conduct and Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and we must provide an Annual ethics policies, which apply to all employees.
In addition, we have Written Affirmation to the NYSE of our compliance with the applicable adopted a Code of Ethics for the Group Chief Executive and senior NYSE Rules.
11, we are required financial officers as required by the US Securities and Exchange to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance Commission.
practices differ from those followed by domestic US companies listed on the NYSE.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans As our main listing is on the London Stock Exchange, we follow the UKs The NYSE listing standards require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code adopted by the Financial Reporting Council.
Key differences between the NYSE Rules revisions to those plans.
We comply with UK requirements, which are similar to the NYSE standards.
The Board, however, does not explicitly and the Code are set out below: take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are Director independence considered material revisions.
Under the NYSE Rules the majority of the Board should be independent.
Relations with Shareholders Under the Code, at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman is We take a proactive approach to communicating with our 750,000 required to be independent.
The NYSE Rules contain detailed tests for institutional and private shareholders.
Senior executives hold meetings determining Director independence, whereas the Code requires the with our key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial Board to determine whether each Director is independent in character performance and investment activities in the UK, throughout Europe and judgement and sets out criteria that may be relevant to that and in the US.
The Chairman meets regularly with investor bodies and determination.
We follow the Codes recommendations as well as investors to discuss our approach to corporate governance issues.
developing best practices among other UK public companies.
Our Board In November 2006, we held a corporate governance event for key annually reviews the independence of our non-executive Directors, institutional investors, the second such event, whose purpose is to taking into account the guidance in the Code and the criteria we have update our major shareholders on our corporate governance practices established for determining independence, which are described on page 119.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 123 Corporate governance Corporate governance report and to discuss any issues that may have arisen.
In addition, investor bodies and major investors are given the opportunity to meet with new non-executive Directors on their appointment.
Sir Richard Broadbent, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet with investors if they are unable to resolve issues through the normal channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
To ensure that all Directors, and in particular, non-executive Directors, have a full understanding of the opinions of our major shareholders, an external consultant conducts an annual audit of investor opinion, the results of which are presented to the Board.
Non-executive Directors also receive copies of analysts reports on the Group and are invited to attend results presentations to analysts.
We aim to provide a first-class service to private shareholders to help them in the effective and efficient management of their shareholding.
The main methods of communicating with private shareholders are the Annual Report, the Annual Review, the dividend mailings and the AGM.
We have continued to encourage shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, where their shares are held electronically in a cost effective environment.
Our e-view service enables shareholders to receive their documents electronically.
It also gives shareholders immediate access to information relating to their personal shareholding and dividend history.
Participants can also change their details and dividend mandates online and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically.
Annual General Meeting All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and be available to answer shareholders questions.
All Directors attended the 2006 AGM.
It has been our practice for a number of years that all resolutions are voted on a poll to ensure that the views of all shareholders are reflected proportionately.
Each of the resolutions considered at the 2006 AGM was decided on a poll and a copy of the poll results is available at www.
The resolutions to be considered at our 2007 AGM will also be decided on a poll and the results will be made available on our website on 27th April 2007.
Signed on behalf of the Board Marcus Agius Chairman 8th March 2007 Barclays PLC 124 Annual Report 2006
