Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 25 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 25 Governance Corporate governance report Bradford & Bingley is committed to high decision.
The specified matters include the enhance their understanding of the Group.
standards of corporate governance in approval of annual budgets, approval of Throughout their period in office all Directors its business.
interim and final financial statements, the are updated on Group business, the approval of recommendations in connection competitive and regulatory environment in The Directors are pleased to report that with the payment of dividends, approval of which it operates and other changes as throughout the year ended 31 December corporate governance arrangements, the they occur, via presentations at Board or 2006 the Company complied with the approval of the Groups strategic direction committee meetings, as appropriate.
For provisions of the Combined Code.
This and the approval of various policies to be example, a programme of briefings and Corporate Governance Report, coupled adopted by the Group.
The mandate training on the implications of Basel II, the with the Directors Remuneration Report, structure enables authorised individuals to Companies Act 2006 and Treating explains how the Company has applied the approve levels of expenditure and commit to Customers Fairly are all planned for 2007. governance principles set out in the Code.
contracts or other agreements in the normal all Directors have access to the advice course of business.
and services of the Company Secretary, The Board the Board reviews its constitution every year who is responsible for ensuring that During the year the Directors satisfied the and during 2006, the Chairman took the Board procedures and applicable rules main and supporting principles and provisions lead role in the evaluation of the and regulations are observed.
The of the Code by the following actions, performance of the Board, the principal Company Secretary also assists the procedures and policies: committees and the performance and Chairman in facilitating the Directors commitment of each Director.
The Directors are able to take the Board met nine times during the year.
This included questionnaires, one-to-one independent professional advice at the included two meetings primarily devoted to interviews with the Chairman and a full Companys expense.
In addition, the Chairman discussion at a Board Meeting.
George held one meeting with the Non-executive Cox, the Senior Independent Director, led Principal Board committees Directors without the Executive Directors the Non-executive Directors in the The Board has established a number of being present to review the effectiveness of evaluation of the Chairman.
committees, each of which has detailed terms the Executive Directors.
One meeting of the of reference.
The three principal committees Non-executive Directors chaired by the All Directors are subject to election by are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Senior Independent Director was also held shareholders at the first AGM after their Committees.
The Audit and the Remuneration without the Chairman present in order to appointment by the Board and each Committees comprise only independent Nonreview the Chairmans performance.
Director is subject to re-appointment every executive Directors.
The terms of reference of as a matter of policy the roles of Chairman three years in accordance with the Articles all these committees are available on request and Group Chief Executive are distinct and of Association.
The Board has decided that to the Registered Office and by visiting the the offices are held by different people - George Cox, Ian Cheshire and Louise Patten Corporate Governance section within the Our Rod Kent and Steven Crawshaw will retire by rotation at the AGM in 2007 Business part of the www.
The role of each is recorded in and offer themselves for re-appointment by writing and has been agreed by the Board.
shareholders under the terms of the Articles During the year the Audit Committee during the year the constitution of the Board of Association.
As part of the evaluation monitored the effectiveness of the Groups satisfied the Code at all times.
At the end process these re-appointments were risk management process and its financial of the year the Board consists of a Nonconsidered by the Nominations Committee and other internal control systems, including executive Chairman, five independent which recommended to the Board that the internal audit, risk management and Non-executive Directors and four Executive performance of the individuals concerned compliance functions.
The five independent Nonwas effective and their commitment reviewed the Groups accounting policies, executive Directors bring wide experience exemplary.
In the light of his length of financial statements and external reporting from varied backgrounds to the workings service on the Board, George Cox is seeking responsibilities with particular regard to of the Board and the Board considers that re-appointment for one year only.
This will International Financial Reporting Standards, all independent Directors meet the allow the Board time to seek an appropriate including International Accounting Standard independence criteria set out in the Code.
It met with the external auditors and the recognised Senior Independent Director maintaining the continuity to ensure the received all reports by them addressed to the throughout the year was George Cox.
smooth operation of the Board.
The Committee reviewed the the purpose of the Board is to govern the information about the recommended reCompanys mis-selling compensation Groups strategic direction, supervise its appointments is included in the Notice of provisions and actions being taken to comply operational management and define and the AGM.
with the Treating Customers Fairly monitor acceptable risk parameters for the requirements and it also reviewed the Group.
The Board has adopted a structure of external and internal training is available to arrangements for staff to raise concerns mandates, granted to individuals and all Directors as required.
A number of Nonabout possible improprieties in the area of committees throughout the Group, whilst executive Directors undertook visits to financial reporting or other issues.
The retaining specified matters for its exclusive operational locations and branches, to Committee also undertook corporate Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 26 26 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Governance Corporate governance report continued governance and other duties as required The members of the Committee are George feedback on these communications from the under the Financial Services and Markets Act Cox Chairman, Rod Kent, Ian Cheshire and Directors attending the meeting, and is also 2000 and applicable regulations made under Louise Patten.
regularly apprised of comments from it.
During 2006 the Committee led a institutional shareholders and analysts so For further information on 33-38 reassessment of the provision of external that all Directors can develop a balanced remuneration see pages audit services.
Following a rigorous review understanding of the issues and concerns of the services undertaken and a full tender The Nominations Committee reviewed the of shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior process, the Board agreed the Committees composition of the Board.
The Committee Independent Director are available to meet recommendation that KPMG should be recommended Directors for re-appointment shareholders on request and will ensure that re-appointed as the external auditor.
The at the AGM and no Director took part in the the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns Committee reviewed its terms of reference discussions relating to their own renot resolved through the usual investor and concluded that these were appropriate appointment.
The members of the Committee communications routes.
At each AGM there in respect of the duties undertaken.
During are Rod Kent Chairman, Ian Cheshire, is a review of the Groups performance and the the year the Committee reviewed its Nicholas Cosh, George Cox, Louise Patten, Board welcomes the opportunity to gather views effectiveness and made a number of Stephen Webster and Steven Crawshaw.
and take questions from shareholders.
Shareholder relations In connection with the AGM, the Company The Audit Committee also considered the The Company is committed to ongoing, discloses the level of proxy voting including position of the auditors including any risk of transparent communication across the for, against and votes withheld, proposes conflict of interest.
The Group recognises the shareholder base, including institutional, private separate resolutions and has a policy that the importance of internal and external auditor or employee shareholders.
The Summary committee chairmen should attend the independence and has adopted principles to Financial Statement, which details key facts Meeting.
In addition, the Notice of the AGM safeguard this, as follows: about the Groups performance, is distributed to and any related papers are sent out to arrive those private shareholders who have requested at least 20 business days before the Meeting the Group will continue to use the external it.
All Annual Reports and AGM documents, to ensure that shareholders have sufficient auditors for non-audit work, where announcements, presentations and press time in which to consider the items of business.
appropriate: releases are available on our www.
co. uk the Group recognises the need for website.
The Company engages in two-way Internal control transparency around the services being communication with institutional shareholders, The Board is responsible for the Groups provided and for a central independent fund managers and analysts to discuss publicly system of internal control.
This is provided by the Audit available information on its strategy, assurance to satisfy itself that the system is Committee which monitors audit and performance and policies.
The Board receives functioning effectively in managing risks in the non-audit fees paid: and there is an appropriate approval process for non-audit work to ensure the auditors independence is not compromised.
Board Meeting and Committee attendance 2006 The table below shows the attendance by Directors at the Board Meetings and at the principal The members of the Committee are Stephen committees of which they were members during the year.
Director absences were the result of Webster Chairman, Ian Cheshire and unavoidable diary clashes and, in all cases, were agreed with the Chairman in advance.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Webster fulfils the Code requirement that Board Audit Remuneration Nominations at least one member of the Committee has Committee Committee Committee recent and relevant financial experience.
Rod Kent 9 9 - - 2 2 The Remuneration Committee, during the year, Steven Crawshaw 9 9 - - 2 2 reviewed the remuneration policy for the Ian Cheshire 8 9 6 6 2 2 2 2 Group overall, and the salary, bonus and benefits arrangements for the Executive Nicholas Cosh 9 9 5 6 - 2 2 Directors and other members of the senior George Cox 7 9 - 2 2 2 2 management team.
Following changes to the Robert Dickie 9 9 - - - Combined Code, it was agreed that Rod Kent would become a member of the Committee Chris Gillespie 9 9 - - - with effect from January 2007.
The Committee Louise Patten 9 9 - 2 2 2 2 also reviewed the grants and awards of Stephen Webster 8 9 6 6 - 2 2 schemes established by the Company.
Chris Willford 9 9 - - - Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 27 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 27 manner which it has approved.
Such a system For further information on risk 18-21 see pages can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than The Group is committed to developing and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve maintaining an appropriate risk management business objectives.
framework and culture with the aim of continuing to ensure that management Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 understand the key risks that the business the Group has operated a system of internal faces.
This is achieved through an control, which includes an ongoing risk organisational structure with clear reporting management process for identifying, evaluating lines and governed by appropriate business and managing the significant risks faced by the monitoring mechanisms, codes of conduct Group.
During the year the Board has continued and policy statements.
to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, The system of internal control has been in place including operational and compliance controls, throughout 2006 and up to the date of approval risk management and the Groups highest level of the Annual Report & Accounts.
It accords with internal control arrangements.
the guidance from the Turnbull Committee.
In reviewing the effectiveness of this system, the In addition, as part of the process of preparing Board takes into account the work of the Audit this statement, the Board has also performed Committee, which receives reports from the its annual assessment of the effectiveness of GRC on the Groups significant risks and how internal controls.
No significant weaknesses these are being managed.
The Board also or failings in the system of internal controls considers reports from internal audit, external were identified in this annual assessment.
audit, compliance and management on the Management does however continually take system of internal control, adherence to actions to improve internal controls, either as regulatory requirements and material control a result of its own initiatives or in response to weaknesses, if any, together with actions taken reports from Internal Audit and by other to address them.
The Chairman of the Audit oversight review functions.
Committee reports on the outcome of each meeting to the Board, where appropriate, Changes in financial regulation continue and the Board also receives minutes of these within the industry, and the Groups risk Committee meetings.
management processes are kept under regular review to ensure that the Group Going concern responds appropriately both to actual and The Directors confirm that they are satisfied proposed regulatory changes.
that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable The Groups management operate a risk future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt management process, producing a Groupthe going concern basis in preparing the wide risk profile that identifies the Groups Financial Statements.
significant risks, the probability of those risks occurring and their impact should they occur, and has the prime responsibility for the design and operation of suitable controls and mitigating actions.
The risk management process is complemented by a formalised reporting and escalation process for control issues.
Internal audit has a key role in maintaining the control environment by providing independent assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
The GRC oversees the risk management process, considers the Groupwide risk profile regularly and receives monitoring reports to update it on progress.
