Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 57 Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The chief executive, Mr T C W Ingram, heads the executive management The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and team and is primarily responsible for the implementation of the boards this report describes how the company has applied the principles of good policies and strategies and for managing the activities of the company corporate governance as set out in section one of the Combined Code other than in relation to those matters specifically reserved to the board issued in July 2003 the Combined Code.
Shareholders registered on the or delegated to its committees.
His responsibilities have also been agreed companys New Zealand branch register should note that the principles of and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board.
good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code may materially Except where the board gives specific direction otherwise, the chief differ from the New Zealand Exchange Limiteds corporate governance rules executive may delegate any of those matters to other members of the and the principles of its Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
A copy executive management team or to executive committees, but ultimately he of the Combined Code is available on the website of the Financial Services is accountable to the board for the overall performance of the company.
A strong independent non-executive representation on the board is headed by the senior independent non-executive director, Mr C M Allen-Jones.
The The board role of the non-executive directors, as set out in their letters of appointment, Overall responsibility and operation is to challenge constructively, and contribute to, the development of The board as a whole is responsible for the groups objectives and policies strategy: to scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed and the management of its resources.
It has eleven scheduled meetings a goals and objectives and monitor their performance: to satisfy themselves year, but also convenes at additional times when required.
The board has that financial information is accurate and that financial controls and systems adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out matters specifically of risk management are robust and defensible: to determine appropriate reserved to it for decision.
Such matters include the approval of strategy, levels of remuneration for executive directors: and to have a prime role in the annual budget, material capital and revenue transactions and changes senior management appointments and succession planning.
in business activities, treasury policies, risk management and internal policy limits relating to the companys investment activities.
The Schedule The composition of the board is such that, throughout the year, the of Authorities also sets out the authorities that are delegated to board company did not comply with provision A.
committees and to executive management.
The Schedule of Authorities The board however believes that the main objectives of board balance is reviewed annually by the board.
and independence set out in the Combined Code that the board should include a balance of executive and non-executive directors, and in particular All directors receive appropriate and timely information to ensure that independent non-executive directors, such that no individual or small group they are properly briefed in advance of board meetings and have unlimited of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking are met.
access to the advice and services of the company secretary and other senior management should further information be required.
Non-executive The board is currently broadly comprised of three categories of directors directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys the four independent non-executive directors: four directors the chairman expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities and three executive directors, the Hon C W Cayzer and Messrs J M B Cayzeras directors.
Colvin and W P Wyatt who are involved in the affairs of The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd Cayzer Trust, Caledonias largest shareholder: and three Appointment, induction and training other executive directors Messrs T C W Ingram, J H Cartwright and All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek election by J M May.
shareholders at the next general meeting of the company following their Mr J R H Loudon does not fall into any of these categories as his eleven year appointment and subsequently all directors are required to retire by rotation tenure as a non-executive director prevents his meeting the Combined at least every three years.
Any non-executive director who has served on the Code criteria for independence although his length of experience with the board for over nine years is subject to annual re-election.
On appointment, company, as well as his business career, are both considered significant new directors are offered induction and training considered appropriate by assets by the board and, although a member of the wider Cayzer family, the board and subsequently as necessary.
The company secretary provides he is not involved in the affairs of Cayzer Trust.
details of, and where requested arranges attendance at, external courses to assist in directors professional development.
In addition to the balance on the board brought by these categories, the Governance Committee, comprising solely independent non-executive Board composition directors, was established in 2003 to keep under review corporate The directors who served during the year are listed in the directors report governance and conflict of interest issues relating to the company and the on page 24. board and has authority to recommend that any director abstains from participating in any decision of the board, or any board committee, where The board currently comprises twelve directors.
Excluding the chairman, it believes that a conflict of interest could, or could be perceived to, arise.
six of the directors are executive and five non-executive.
The non-executive The board believes that this structure ensures the necessary level of board directors considered to be independent are Messrs C M Allen-Jones, M E T balance demanded by the Combined Code and safeguards against any Davies, R Goblet dAlviella and D G F Thompson.
In assessing Mr Goblet individual or small group of individuals being able to dominate the boards dAlviellas independence, the board took account of his position as chief decision taking.
Whilst not in strict compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the executive officer of Sofina sa, which has a 4.7% shareholding in Caledonia, Combined Code, the board believes this structure is appropriate in the but did not consider this shareholding to be significant in the context of context of a company with a large controlling shareholder whose stability independence, particularly given the size of the Cayzer Concert Partys total and support is fundamental to Caledonias business model as a long term, interest in the company.
Moreover, in the context of Caledonia, the board supportive investor, and is therefore in the best interests of all shareholders.
regards as key in assessing independence Mr Goblet dAlviellas ability, given the shareholding of Sofina sa and his past investment banking experience, As stated previously, the Combined Code requires that the members to look at the interests of the general body of shareholders, independent of the Remuneration and Audit Committees should all be independent of the Cayzer Concert Party and of Caledonias executive management.
However, Mr Loudons membership of these Collectively, the directors throughout the year brought a wide range of Committees, given that he is not considered independent by virtue of his experience, skills and expertise to the stewardship of the company.
The length of service as a non-executive director, means that provisions B.
2.1 individual biographies of the current directors appear on pages 22 and 23. and C. 3.1 of the Combined Code are not met.
However, because of his attributes described above, the board considers his membership of these The board is led by the chairman, Mr P N Buckley, whose responsibilities Committees to be in the best interests of the company.
have been agreed and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board.
The chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board committees board and individual directors are able to operate efficiently by setting the The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the agenda, style and tone of board discussions to promote constructive debate following standing committees, the terms of reference of which are and effective decision making.
He has overall responsibility for monitoring reviewed annually and are available on the companys website or from the the development needs of the board as a whole and of individual directors company secretary on written request.
The current membership of these and for ensuring that the performance of the board, its committees and committees is noted on page 65. individual directors are evaluated at least once a year.
In conjunction with the chief executive, the chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that all board members develop an understanding of the views of investors.
This is primarily achieved by board briefings following meetings with significant shareholders and private client stockbrokers, some of which are also attended by the senior independent non-executive director.
58 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee The Combined Code recommends that at least one member of the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr P N Buckley, is responsible for Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
the regular review of the structure, size and composition including the skills, The Audit Committee considers that Mr J R H Loudon, who was formerly knowledge and experience of the board and for giving consideration to group finance director of Blue Circle Industries, has such financial succession planning for executive directors and, if requested by the board, for experience.
The chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr C M Allen-Jones, other senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search is also a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when The Audit Committee met five times during the year, including twice they arise and for making recommendations to the board in relation thereto without any of the executive directors present.
During the year, the business and for keeping under review the leadership needs of the company, both considered by the Audit Committee included: executive and non-executive.
It reviews the time required of non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting The scope of the annual audit and agreement with the external auditors out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, of the key areas of focus.
committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
The reports from the external auditors concerning their audit of the The Nomination Committee met once during the year in order to undertake annual financial statements of the company and their review of the a formal review of the size and composition of the board following the 2005 interim report.
annual board performance evaluation and to consider the contribution and The financial disclosures contained in the annual and interim reports commitment of the non-executive directors retiring at the annual general to shareholders.
meeting, prior to giving recommendations for their election or re-elections.
Reports from management on the effectiveness of the companys Remuneration Committee system of internal financial control.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr M E T Davies, is responsible The need or otherwise for an internal audit function.
for the review of executive remuneration policy.
Within that policy, the Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration packages of The independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including executive directors and reviews those of other senior executive management.
their system of quality controls and the level and nature of non-audit It is also responsible for the design of, and grant of awards under, the services provided by them.
companys share incentive schemes and deferred bonus plan and for the The performance of the external auditors and the level of fees charged determination of the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, service for their services.
agreements, termination payments and compensation commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior executives.
The performance of the Audit Committee itself.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year and The companys preparation for the implementation of International completed the implementation of the new executive share option scheme Financial Reporting Standards.
and deferred bonus plan designed to ensure that the companys remuneration The companys compliance with the requirements for HMRC approval of policies remain sufficient to enable it to recruit and retain able executives and its investment trust status.
that its performance related rewards continue to be competitive, following the thorough review of senior executive remuneration undertaken in the Governance Committee previous year.
Further information on the companys executive remuneration The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, keeps under policy and the work of the Remuneration Committee are included in the review corporate governance issues relating to the company and is responsible directors remuneration report set out on pages 52 to 56. for the monitoring and review of the ability of each director to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to exercise independence of Audit Committee judgement free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to, or The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, is responsible for the could appear to, affect his judgement.
Where it concludes that such criteria are monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the company and not satisfied with regard to any director, it may make such recommendations any announcements relating to the companys financial performance and for to the board as it may think fit, including that the director abstains from reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
participating in any decision of the board or any of its committees on the It also reviews the companys systems of internal financial control and matter concerned.
The Governance Committee met three times during considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
Committee believes that, in the context of the companys business as an investment trust, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the integrity Attendance at meetings of the application of the companys policy for the valuation of its investments, The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings particularly those which are unquoted, and the robustness of the groups held in the year to 31 March 2006 and the attendance record of individual internal financial controls.
The valuations of the companys unquoted directors.
investments are subject to formal six monthly reviews by an internal challenge committee, independent of the investment executives, the results of which Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee are then reviewed by the external auditors, and a formal report on the effectiveness of the groups internal financial control is prepared annually Number of meetings 1 for the board by the group financial controller.
It is the Audit Committees in the year 11 1 7 5 3 current opinion that, in view of these control processes, the size of the Attendances by entities controlled by Caledonia and the relatively straightforward control P N Buckley 11 1 considerations in relation to other investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
T C W Ingram 11 J H Cartwright 11 It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the The Hon C W Cayzer 10 effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and implement policy J M B Cayzer-Colvin 10 on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
J M May 11 In this regard, the Audit Committee has approved a schedule of specific non-audit activities which may not be undertaken by the external auditors, W P Wyatt 11 within the broad principles that the external auditors should not audit C M Allen-Jones 11 1 7 5 3 their own work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the M E T Davies 10 1 7 3 company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that no mutuality of interest should be created between the company and R Goblet dAlviella 9 the external auditors.
The Audit Committee believes that, by applying these J R H Loudon 10 1 6 5 principles, the objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained, D G F Thompson 11 1 5 3 notwithstanding that non-audit work may be undertaken.
basis, the Audit Committee considers and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the companys formal whistleblowing arrangements whereby members of staff may raise any issues of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business and whereby any such concerns are properly investigated and appropriate action taken.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 59 Board performance evaluation Going concern The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its own performance and The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the group has adequate that of its committees and individual directors.
For the year ended 31 March resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, 2006, the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its committees was led they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial by the chairman and was conducted by inviting individual board members to statements.
complete a questionnaire regarding the operation and effectiveness of the board as a whole and of its committees, the responses to which were collated Relations with shareholders by the company secretary and discussed.
The evaluation of the performance The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders in order to of the chairman was led by the senior independent non-executive director achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The chief executive and the and involved private discussion with other members of the board of their finance director seek meetings with larger institutional shareholders and views on his performance, the results of which were then considered at private client stockbrokers after the announcement of year end and interim meetings of the non-executive directors, without the chairman present, results.
The chairman and senior independent non-executive director attend and of the Governance Committee.
The evaluation of the performance of some of these meetings.
The annual general meeting also provides a forum the chief executive was undertaken by the chairman and the non-executive for investors to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
The performance of the non-executive directors was reviewed by The chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to answer the chairman, the chief executive and the senior independent non-executive questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
director, with the senior independent non-executive director absent in respect of his own performance appraisal.
As part of this review, nonexecutive directors were invited to complete self-assessment questionnaires in relation to their own effectiveness.
The performance of the executive directors, which included further consideration of that of the chief executive, was undertaken by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual executive salary review process.
The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its committees for the year ended 31 March 2006 were presented in a report to the board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure and composition of the board in the light of this report.
Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control, although the review of internal financial controls is delegated to the Audit Committee.
The groups system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It is recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board confirms that the system of internal control operated by the group accords with the guidance issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Committee guidelines and has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Major business risks facing group companies, including social, ethical and environmental issues, are identified in conjunction with operating management and procedures agreed to address these as appropriate.
Risks facing the groups material investments are identified and evaluated through board representation or regular contact.
Key risks identified are regularly monitored at group level by members of the executive committee, who have clear mandates to assess and report on risk in their particular areas of responsibility.
From these assessments, an ongoing risk profile of the groups activities is updated half-yearly and reviewed by the board.
The board is also provided quarterly with a list of the key risk issues identified by executive management at that particular time.
All of the companys larger investments are reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings reviewed at least annually by the executive investment management committee.
Specific control procedures are in place to ensure that the company continually monitors and complies with the requirements for investment trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance reports evidencing that the company is meeting the various tests for investment trust status and also confirming that the investment activities undertaken by executive management are within the overall policy limits set by the board.
A compliance committee, comprising the company secretary chairman, the finance director and three associate directors has been established, which meets weekly to review the companys ongoing compliance with its investment trust status and to monitor and approve all investment activity from an investment trust compliance perspective.
The group financial controller also attends such meetings.
Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing total shareholder returns and net asset value movements against the FTSE All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported monthly to the board.
Income and expenses are monitored by the board against an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Valuations of unquoted investments are subject to a rigorous six monthly review process undertaken by a challenge committee independent of the investment executives, the results of which are reviewed by the external auditors.
Since the year end, the directors have conducted their annual review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
