REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION The chairman of the Committee, M A Young, qualied and This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with practised as a Chartered Accountant ACA and has significant, the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code on relevant and up to date financial and accounting knowledge and Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance experience.
M A Young is chairman of the audit committee of on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
This report Uniq plc and was previously a managing director of Donaldson gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its Lufkin & Jenrette and then Credit Suisse First Boston 1997 to responsibilities.
2001 and a director of Natwest Markets Corporate Finance Limited 1985 to 1997.
The other members of the Committee have TERMS OF REFERENCE a wide range of business experience which is evidenced in their The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on the biographical details on page 81. companys website, are reviewed annually by the Committee and any changes are approved by the Board.
MEETINGS The Committee normally meets three times a year and did so in The main duties of the Committee set out in the terms of 2006.
All members of the Audit Committee attended each of the reference are: three meetings held in 2006 while they were members of the Committee, except for A J McWalter who missed one meeting monitoring the integrity of the companys financial statements: due to illness.
Both the external auditors and internal auditors and the Finance Director and the Treasury & Risk Director attend reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and all meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board and the risk management systems: other executive directors usually attend meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
The external auditors reviewing the companys arrangements for employees to raise have a condential discussion with members of the Committee concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial without the executive directors being present during part of each reporting and other matters: meeting.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys WORK OF THE COMMITTEE internal audit function in the context of the companys overall risk The Committee discharges its duties as follows: management system: At its meetings in March and September, the Committee reviews considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation the companys preliminary announcement and Annual Report to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the and Financial Statements and interim announcement respectively.
companys external auditors: and At each of these meetings the Committee receives a report from the external auditors setting out any accounting or judgemental overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including issues which require its attention.
but not limited to approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence and objectivity taking into account A report from the internal auditors is reviewed at the meetings in relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the March, September and December.
The Committee considers the relationship with the auditors as a whole, including the provision internal auditors work plan for the following year at its of any non-audit services.
MEMBERSHIP The Committee considers the external auditors pre-year end Since N N Broadhursts resignation as a member of the Committee issues report at its December meeting and their audit plan at its on 11 May 2006 when he became Chairman of the Board, the September meeting.
Audit Committee has comprised the four independent non-executive directors.
M A Young was appointed as a member of the At its September and December meetings the Committee reviews Committee on 1 February 2006 and became its chairman on the reports of the Risk Management Group, which comprises the 1 May 2006.
N N Broadhurst was the chairman until 1 May 2006 executive directors and other key members of senior management and D A Haxby, F Dee and A J McWalter were members of the including risk specialists and considers the key risks facing the Committee throughout 2006. group and the effectiveness of the groups internal controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
88 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 REPORTS OF THE BOARD At its March and September meetings the Committee considers The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, the annual and half-yearly risk and compliance reports produced risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice and legal by the Treasury & Risk Director in relation to the preceding year advice services.
The provision of other non-audit services is and half-year respectively.
awarded on a case-by-case basis, depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the work.
The Committee reviews the fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services at all its meetings and at its March These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, meeting it assesses the external auditors independence and makes are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain a recommendation to the Board as to the appointment or appropriate.
The appointment of the external auditors to provide re-appointment of the auditors at the Annual General Meeting.
non-audit services requires Board approval for any assignments with fees above a set financial limit.
INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITORS Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors, The external auditors report to the Audit Committee each year on  LLP, have put in place safeguards to avoid the actions they have taken to comply with professional and the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their The groups policy with regard to services provided by its external independence, including the rotation of key members of the external auditors is as follows: audit team.
 LLP have formally confirmed their independence to the Board, in respect of the period covered by Statutory audit services these financial statements.
The external auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work.
The external auditors also The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors provide services in respect of the provision of a review opinion on during the year is included in note 9 to the financial statements, on the companys Interim Report, perform work in their capacity as page 52. reporting accountant in accordance with the Prospectus Rules and provide regulatory services and formalities relating to other circulars.
The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an ongoing basis.
Tax compliance and tax advisory MARGARET YOUNG Tax compliance involves dealing with the groups corporation tax Chairman of the Audit Committee 15 March 2007 returns and this work is carried out by  LLP.
Tax advisory services include tax planning and structuring advice for direct and indirect taxes.
The groups policy is for each individual assignment to be assessed separately and awarded depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the relevant work.
Other non-audit services This category includes work relating to due diligence and other non-regulatory reporting.
The groups normal policy is to appoint the external auditors to undertake this work because of their knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the Board reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
In 2006 this category included work in connection with the possible offer for London Scottish Bank plc.
In 2005 this category included work relating to the groups adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
89 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
