REPORT OF THE BOARD ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 The Board of Cattles plc aims to maintain the highest standards of THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE corporate governance in the belief that such standards are essential The division of responsibilities between the non-executive to the process of delivering long-term growth in profits and Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst, and the Chief Executive, dividends.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the S P Mahon, is clearly dened in writing and has been approved by company complied with the provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined the Board.
Code on Corporate Governance, except that the Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst, became a member of the Remuneration The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy Committee on 5 December 2006 as permitted by the 2006 FRC and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is Combined Code on Corporate Governance which applies to the responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its financial year starting on 1 January 2007 but did not apply during effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no the year ended 31 December 2006. involvement in the day to day business of the group.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Chief Executive has direct charge of the group on a day to day The company is managed through the Board of directors.
The basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and Boards main roles are to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the operational performance of the group.
company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed, to set the companys SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR strategic aims and to ensure that the necessary financial and human D A Haxby continues to perform the role of Senior Independent resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and so Director.
D A Haxby is available to meet shareholders on request increase shareholder value.
and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor Normally, there are seven regular Board meetings a year, together communication.
with a further meeting which is dedicated to considering the groups budget for the following year and a day devoted to reviewing the DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE groups business strategy, with additional meetings being held as The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive required.
All directors attended each of the seven regular meetings directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The names held during 2006 except for A J McWalter who did not attend two of the directors together with their biographical details are set out meetings due to illness.
There are a number of matters specically on pages 80 and 81.
All the directors served throughout the period reserved for Board approval, which include approval of the groups under review, except for M A Young who was appointed on overall business strategy, planning and annual budgets, assessment 1 February 2006.
The Board includes independent non-executive of internal controls and risk management, senior management directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals appointments, approval of major contracts and significant on strategy, and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge, acquisitions, investment and capital expenditure decisions and and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent corporate governance practices, as well as the groups nancing and directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry dividend policies.
significant weight in the Boards decision making.
At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, there is a full financial Independent professional advice is provided at the companys and business review and discussion, which includes the comparison expense, when the directors deem it necessary in order for them to of trading performance to date against the annual budget and any carry out their responsibilities.
other financial plan which has been previously approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in Board pack prior to each meeting, which incorporates a formal the Chairmans biography.
The Chairman holds the chairmanship of agenda, separate reports from the Chief Executive and each of the one other listed company and one private company and two other executive directors on their specic areas of responsibility, together non-executive directorships but the Board is satisfied that these do with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the meeting.
not interfere with the performance of his duties to the company Board papers are usually sent out one week before the meeting to which are based around a commitment of approximately 80 days give the directors sufficient time to prepare for a comprehensive per annum.
The Chairman ceased to be a non-executive director of review of the relevant issues at the meeting.
Tomkins plc during the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the The Board considers all its other non-executive directors to be executive directors: the development and recommendation of independent in character and judgement.
No independent strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reect the non-executive director: longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the group as has been an employee of the group within the last five years: determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the quality of the has, or has had within the last three years, a material business investment process against objectives: prioritising the allocation of relationship with the group: capital, technical and human resources: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
receives remuneration other than a directors fee: 84 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 REPORTS OF THE BOARD has close family ties with any of the groups advisers, directors or Individual written personal objectives in relation to their senior employees: management roles are prepared at the beginning of the financial year by each executive director.
After agreement with the Chief holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other Executive, and in the case of the Chief Executive with the Chairman, directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: these objectives are submitted to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and approval on behalf of the Board.
The Chief represents a significant shareholder: or Executive conducts an annual appraisal of the performance of the other executive directors which includes an assessment of their has served on the Board for more than nine years.
individual performance against their personal objectives set at the beginning of the accounting period and a formal interview.
The PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT same process is conducted by the Chairman in respect of the Chief On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme Executive.
The extent to which executive directors personal when they receive information about the group, the role of the objectives have been achieved is determined during this review Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of process, the results of which are submitted to, and taken into reference and membership of the principal Board committees, account by, the Remuneration Committee in nalising the executive together with the powers delegated to those committees, the groups directors bonuses for the year.
corporate governance practices and procedures, and the latest financial information about the group.
This is supplemented by RE-ELECTION visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
Subject to the companys Articles of Association, the Companies Throughout their period in office the directors are continually Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive updated on the groups business, the competitive, legal and directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, but may regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes be invited to serve one or two additional three year terms if the affecting the group and the financial services industry by written Nomination Committee believes this to be appropriate.
The briengs and Board presentations by senior executives.
Directors are re-appointment of directors who have served for more than nine also updated on changes to their legal and other duties and years is subject to annual review and re-election by the obligations as directors of a listed company.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION THE COMPANY SECRETARY The Board has established a formal process led by the Chairman for The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors committees and the individual directors, with particular attention have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
being paid to those who are due for re-appointment.
The directors The companys Articles of Association and the schedule of matters are made aware, on appointment, that their performance will be reserved to the Board for decision provide that the appointment and subject to an evaluation.
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
In 2006 the directors completed a questionnaire which was STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD circulated by the Company Secretary and was designed to gain an The Board has established three standing Committees, each with insight into how well the Board and its Committees were meeting formal terms of reference, being the Audit Committee, the their objectives.
The questionnaire included the former Chairmans Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
summary of progress made during 2005 against the matters The terms of reference are published on the companys website.
identied for attention in the 2004 self-evaluation process and The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all three standing asked the directors to state whether or not those matters had been committees.
The Company Secretary then collated the completed results from the questionnaires and presented the consolidated AUDIT COMMITTEE results to the Chairman.
Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during 2006 are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 88 and 89.
The Chairman conducts the annual appraisals of the four executive directors in relation to their duties as directors of the company and REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the four non-executive directors.
These appraisals are conducted in Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during separate meetings between the Chairman and each director, at 2006 and the groups remuneration policy are set out in the Report which the directors contribution to Board proceedings is reviewed of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 90 to 97. and the directors views on his or her own performance and the operation of the Board identied in the self-evaluation questionnaire NOMINATION COMMITTEE are discussed.
The Chairman reports to the Board on any issues The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the four requiring Board consideration.
independent non-executive directors D A Haxby, F Dee, A J McWalter and M A Young and the Chief Executive under the Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst.
The meet annually, without the presence of the Chairman, to conduct a Nomination Committees terms of reference include preparing a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent description of the role and capabilities required for a new Board Director subsequently has a meeting with the Chairman on a similar appointment in light of the balance of skills, knowledge and basis as the Chairmans meeting with each director.
experience on the Board and the companys requirements, 85 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 REPORT OF THE BOARD ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the The Annual General Meeting is seen as an opportunity to Board for the approval of the Board and reviewing the succession communicate with other shareholders and all directors are expected plans for the Board and senior management.
The Chief Executive gives a presentation to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the groups results for the The Nomination Committee has access to recruitment consultants previous year.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put to ensure it receives objective and independent advice.
During 2006 questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Information relating to the Nomination Committee met formally on two occasions and this years Annual General Meeting can be found in the reviewed the succession plans for the Board and senior management.
accompanying circular and shareholders are invited to submit in All members of the Nomination Committee attended both of the advance any questions which they would like to ask at the Annual meetings held in 2006.
General Meeting by completing and returning the questions card which is enclosed with this Annual Report.
M A Young was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 1 February 2006 upon the recommendation of the In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters relating Nomination Committee and with the assistance of recruitment to the trading or development of the group are disseminated to the consultants.
N N Broadhurst became Deputy Chairman on market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The companys 1 January 2006 and non-executive Chairman on 11 May 2006 website, www.
co. uk, includes a section focusing specically upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which on investor relations.
All such announcements are accessible on the considered him to be ideally qualied for the role in view of his website once made within the news room section.
In addition, business experience and five years with the company.
When the materials used in the presentations to analysts of the companys considering N N Broadhursts appointment as Deputy Chairman Interim and Final Results and the webcasts of these presentations and then Chairman, the Committee met with the Senior are accessible on the website after the presentations have been made.
Independent Director, D A Haxby, chairing the proceedings and neither the then Chairman, B Cottingham, nor N N Broadhurst ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT played any part in the process.
In making this recommendation, the Financial Reporting Committee ensured that N N Broadhurst could commit sufficient The directors believe that the Annual Report presents a balanced time to the role.
N N Broadhurst was an independent non-executive and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and director upon his appointment as Chairman.
The Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review, which can be found on pages 6 to 34, together RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS provide a detailed assessment of the groups affairs.
The directors The Board maintains a close relationship with the companys major responsibilities for the financial statements are described in the shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, Treasury & Report of the Directors on pages 82 and 83.
The companys Risk Director and Chief Operating Officer maintain regular contact financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to with major institutional shareholders, who are offered a personal being submitted to the Board for approval.
meeting with the Chief Executive and other executive directors at least twice each year.
The Chairman usually attends the INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT presentations to analysts of the companys Interim and Final Results The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the groups and all major shareholders are offered a personal meeting with the internal control system, which is designed to safeguard Chairman and Senior Independent Director, if they so require.
shareholders investment and the companys assets and embraces all Major shareholders are also given the opportunity to meet new risks faced by the group, including business, financial, operational non-executive directors on their appointment.
Major shareholders and compliance risks.
The directors recognise, however, that there are also offered the opportunity to provide non-attributed feedback are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and as to the Board through discussions with the companys stockbrokers, such the controls can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, HSBC Bank plc and Citigroup Global Markets Limited.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As required by the Combined Code, the Chairman relays to the The group has complied with the guidance provided by the Board any issues raised with him by shareholders.
This is Financial Reporting Council in a document entitled Internal supplemented by a report by the Chief Executive of shareholders Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code views following the presentations of the Interim and Final Results.
October 2005 Turnbull guidance, through an ongoing process The directors also receive reports from the companys advisers on to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and the markets views of the company both before and after the non-financial, the groups perceived tolerance or commercial announcement of the Interim and Final Results and copies of appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures which analysts reports.
In October 2005, the Board appointed Makinson should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure and to Cowell to carry out an audit of the views of the companys major review the operation and effectiveness of the groups internal institutional shareholders in order to ascertain their understanding control system.
This process, which has been in place throughout of, and attitudes to, the company and its standing in the equity the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report, is market.
Makinson Cowell presented their findings to the directors regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull in February 2006. guidance.
86 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 REPORTS OF THE BOARD The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation and Adoption of a schedule of matters specically reserved for the effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a six monthly approval of the Board ensuring that it maintains full and effective basis and reporting to the Board thereon.
Such reviews have been control over appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and conducted during the financial year.
The principal features of the compliance issues.
As described on page 84, the Board has groups internal control system can be summarised as follows: identied a number of key areas, which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
Primary responsibility of the Board to ensure that the major business risks facing the group are identied and that appropriate The Board also reviews the role of insurance in managing risks policies are developed for the management of those risks.
Board, however, recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to GOING CONCERN achieve business objectives.
Under company law, the directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on the basis that the A clearly dened organisational structure with lines of company and the group are going concerns.
As part of its normal responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive business practices, the group prepares annual budgets and management supported by established policies and procedures.
longer-term financial and business plans.
In reviewing this information, the directors are satisfied that the company and the The engagement of a leading rm of professional advisers for the group have adequate resources to continue in business for the provision of a complete range of internal audit services, with a foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt direct reporting link to the Audit Committee.
the going concern basis in preparing the groups financial statements.
A Risk Management Group, comprising the executive directors By order of the Board and other key members of senior management including risk specialists, reviews key group risks together with the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of these risks.
This review includes the adoption of procedures which are designed to capture and evaluate any failings or weaknesses in the internal control system.
The Risk Management Group meets twice ROLAND TODD yearly and reports to the Audit Committee.
Company Secretary 15 March 2007 Delegation of the responsibility for ongoing maintenance of the system of internal control procedures to the executive management, with specically designated Risk Champions for all business areas and appropriate working parties.
The system ensures that successive assurances are provided to ascending levels of management and changes in the risk proles for all business areas are monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
The group is continuing to develop its risk management framework further to ensure that risk monitoring and reporting is embedded at all levels of management and throughout all areas of the groups operations.
Arrangements by which staff of the group may raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, together with arrangements for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action and reporting to the Board.
Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting system, which covers income, expenditure, cash ows and balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium-term plans are approved by the Board and monitored against actual performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget is reviewed and reforecast on a regular basis.
87 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
