City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 22 22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance Background The directors biographies, set out on page 14, demonstrate The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance the breadth of investment, commercial and professional of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing experience relevant to their positions as directors.
The Board Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have believes that retaining directors with sufficient experience of applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the both the Company and the markets is of great benefit to revised Combined Code.
The Financial Reporting Council shareholders.
confirmed in February 2006 that investment trust companies At least eight scheduled Board meetings are held each year to who report against the revised AITC Code the Code will deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs, be deemed to have met their obligations under paragraph including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, 9.8.
Accordingly, the Board has resolved gearing policy, the review of investment performance and the to report against the revised AITC Code.
level of the discount or premium to net asset value and the The principles laid down by the two Codes are similar but evaluation of the service providers.
Additional meetings of the there are some areas where the AITC Code is more specifically Board may be arranged as required.
The number of formal applicable to investment trust companies.
In complying with meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the the AITC Code, the Company is not required to report on the financial year and the attendance of individual directors are role of a Chief Executive, executive directors remuneration or shown below.
All directors attend the Annual General the need for an internal audit function, which are all irrelevant Meeting.
to most investment trust companies.
Board Audit Nominations Committee Committee No of meetings 8 2 1 Application of the Codes Principles Simon fide Zoete 8 n a 1 The AITC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches Mark Nicholls 8 2 1 importance to the matters set out in the Code and lists below Angus Russell i 8 1 1 how the Codes Principles have been applied.
Sir Keith Stuart 8 2 1 Helen Weir ii 3 1 n a Statement of Compliance i Appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 26 October 2005 ii Resigned 26 October 2005 The directors consider that the Company has complied with Board Committees the provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period The Board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and the ended 30 June 2006.
Nominations Committee and terms of Reference for these Committees are available on the Companys website.
The Board Independence and Composition Board has not formed a Management Engagement The Board currently consists of four non-executive directors Committee as it remains the role of the Board as a whole to with a further non-executive director to be appointed on keep under review the terms of the management agreement 1 October 2006.
The directors reviewed their independence between the Company and the Investment Manager.
and confirm that all directors, including the new appointee, remain wholly independent of Henderson Global Investors Audit Committee Limited the Investment Manager.
No director has links The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, with the Investment Manager, all directors have a wide range Mark Nicholls and Angus Russell, who was appointed after of other interests and are not dependent in any way on the the resignation of Helen Weir.
Collectively the members of the Company itself.
The Chairmans other significant Audit Committee are considered to have the necessary recent commitments are detailed on page 14 and have not changed and relevant financial experience.
On length of tenure, in the event of a director having more than nine years service, the Board would explain The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is the reasons for considering such a director to be independent.
responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 23 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 23 Corporate Governance continued the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their considers that all the directors have different qualities and remuneration, performance, independence and objectivity, as areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors, and the interim report.
It meets with representatives of the Performance Evaluation The Company Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and The performance of the Company is considered in detail at effectiveness of the accounting records and management each Board meeting.
information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, the The Board Board concluded that the Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, The Chairman reviews each individual directors contribution on remained independent of both the Company and the an annual basis and the work of the Board as a whole and the Investment Manager.
Board Committees is also reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee.
The Board meets without the Chairman present in The Auditor was engaged during the year to confirm that the order to review the performance of the Chairman.
new UK Accounting Standards had been correctly applied with regards to the preparation of the Interim Report dated 31 Tenure Policy December 2005.
When applicable, the Auditor is also engaged All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, to review the calculation of any performance fee due at the subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions and, in year end.
These are considered to be non-audit services.
accordance with the Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee meets at least annually and Directors will retire at intervals of not more than three years to considers Board succession planning, the review of the ensure compliance with the Code.
performance of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees and the appointment of new directors.
All Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee considers succession planning The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and Nominations Committee but would not chair the Committee experience existing on the Board and will recommend when when the Chairmans successor was being considered.
the further recruitment of non-executive directors is required.
The Committee aims to maintain a balance of relevant skills, During the year the Nominations Committee agreed to engage experience, ages and length of service of the directors serving an external agency to recruit a new director.
A short list was on the board.
provided and candidates were interviewed by the Committee.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Anita Frew Once a decision is made to recruit additional directors to the to the Board.
The Committee considers that Anita Frews Board, each director is invited to submit nominations and breadth of commercial experience will be beneficial and that these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed she will make a valuable contribution to the Board.
The Nominations Committee considers the use of external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an The Nominations Committee also reviewed the directors additional Board member becomes necessary.
retiring by rotation and recommended their re-election be put forward to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Reappointment as a director is not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each directors performance.
In Senior Independent Non-Executive Director accordance with the Combined Code any director serving for The Chairman is a non-executive director.
A senior longer than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous independent director has not been identified as the Board assessment of his her contribution and any director serving for City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 24 24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued longer than nine years would be subject to annual re-election Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of by shareholders.
the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager has extensive investment management resources Directors Training and wide experience in managing and administering When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a investment trust companies.
training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key Accountability and Audit information on the Companys policies, regulatory and The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes Accounts is set out on page 20, the Independent Auditors affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as Report on page 45 and the Statement of Going Concern on they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant page 20. training and industry seminars.
The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, including the Investment Manager, the management Directors Remuneration of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which The Board as a whole considers directors remuneration and include the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration accounting, company secretarial and administration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the Directors requirements and registration services.
Each of these contracts Remuneration Report on page 21. was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including Responsibilities the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase affairs of the Company.
and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all The Board receives and considers regular reports from the relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
companies managed by the Investment Manager: these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision Chairman reports on them to the Board.
by the full Board has been defined and a procedure adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take The Investment Manager has established an internal control independent professional advice at the expense of the framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on to the advice and services of the corporate Company behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls Secretary through its appointed representative who is is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures department on a continuing basis.
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in Internal Controls a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords The Board reviews the performance of the Investment with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Manager at each Board meeting.
In the opinion of the Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull directors the continued appointment of the current City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 25 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 25 Corporate Governance continued Guidance.
The process has been in place since 2 March normally attend.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address 2000 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other directors at the meeting.
The The Board is responsible overall for the Companys system of Portfolio Manager, as the representative of the Investment internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, Manager, makes a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives displayed at the meeting.
It is the intention of the Board that and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual General against material misstatement or loss.
Meeting be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a wishing to lodge questions in advance of the meeting are full review of the Companys business risks and these have been invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
Registered Office address given on page 52.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the General presentations to both shareholders and analysts areas of risk, including those that are not directly the follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which reports the between the Investment Manager and shareholders are details of any known internal control failures.
The Board reported to the Board.
receives each year from the Investment Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Investment The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 49 to 51 sets Managers auditors on the control policies and procedures in out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system are explained more fully in the Report of the Directors on of internal control and risk management into the operation and pages 15 to 20.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
The Company delegates to third parties most of its operations Exercise of Voting Powers and does not employ any staff.
The Board will continue to The Company has approved a corporate governance voting monitor its system of internal control in order to provide policy which accords with current best practice whilst assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
review from time to time whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
New Zealand Listing It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Relations with Shareholders Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the prime medium by which the Company communicates with Corporate Best Practice Code.
Investors may find more shareholders is through the Interim Report and Annual Report information on www.
co. uk and Accounts which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and all directors
