Job: 7583 Closebros AR MID AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul o Date: 18 08 2006 Server: Studio II Set-up: paul o First Read Revisions 20 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board of the company the board has reviewed its Corporate responsible for the running of the board and the chief executive is Governance practices and, together with relevant information responsible for the running of the companys business which ensures contained in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on a clear division of responsibility at the head of the company.
The pages 24 to 30 and the Report of the Directors on pages 18 and 19, management board, comprising solely senior executives of the this statement explains how the company has applied the principles group, assists the chief executive both in developing strategy and of good governance contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code business objectives, and with the day to day management of the on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 by the Financial group.
All directors have direct access to the advice and services Reporting Council the Combined Code for the year ended of the company secretary and outside professional advisers as 31st July, 2006. necessary, at the companys expense.
Compliance with the Combined Code The board has appointed the following committees, whose members The company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code are all non-executive directors, with the following summarised terms throughout the year ended 31st July, 2006. of reference, details of which are available on the companys website: Chairman Audit and Compliance Committee Messrs. D. G. J. Paterson Sir David Scholey, the chairman, advised the board that he will be chairman, B. N. Carnegie-Brown, P. S. S. Macpherson and retiring at the conclusion of our forthcoming AGM.
The Nomination and Governance Committee considered whether To review the scope, findings and performance of the internal and Sir David Scholeys successor should be appointed from within or external auditors, to commission any additional investigation work, outside the present board.
Having considered possible candidates in to review the adequacy of controls and procedures including both categories with the assistance of external consultants, the reputational, financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Committee concluded, and the board concurred, that Mr. R. D. Kent, management and to consider the form and content of published a non-executive director of the company, should be invited to fill the announcements and statutory accounts.
In reaching its conclusion, the board acknowledged the fact that Mr. Kents term as an executive officer of Close Brothers from Remuneration Committee Messrs. M. G. A. McLintock chairman, 1974 to 2002 means that he would not meet the independence P. N. Buckley and P. S. S. Macpherson.
criteria of the Combined Code.
Since October 2002, Mr. Kent has served as chairman or senior independent director of three significant To determine the remuneration and other terms and conditions of companies, Bradford & Bingley plc, Grosvenor Limited and employment of the executive directors, management board members Whitbread Plc.
During this time as a non-executive director of the and the company secretary.
company Mr. Kent has consistently shown independence of judgement.
Nomination and Governance Committee Sir David Scholey chairman, Messrs. P. S. S. Macpherson, M. G. A. McLintock, The board attaches great importance to succession planning and D. G. J. Paterson and J. P. Williams.
continuity and believes that these are important factors behind the companys consistent long term success.
Mr. Kent offers the unique To consider the appointment or retirement of directors, to review combination of experience, continuity and knowledge of our rather proposed nominations and governance procedures and to make particular business and the board considers his appointment to be recommendations thereon to the board.
Before an appointment is in the best interests of the company and all its shareholders.
made, the skills, knowledge and experience required for a particular Accordingly Sir David Scholey will be succeeded as chairman by appointment are evaluated and external advisers may be used to Mr. Kent at the conclusion of our forthcoming AGM.
facilitate the search for suitable candidates.
Other duties of the committee include regular reviews of the structure, size and A number of the companys largest institutional shareholders were composition of the board, consideration of the leadership needs of consulted on this appointment.
the group and succession planning, and assessment of the contribution of non-executive directors.
The board has also decided that Mr. P. S. S. Macpherson, senior independent director, will be appointed deputy chairman at the Board Evaluation same time.
The board conducts a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Board Responsibilities The chairman leads a formal review and discussion of the The board currently comprises five executive directors and eight performance of the board and its committees.
The performance of non-executive directors, including the chairman.
The senior individual executive directors is formally assessed annually by the independent director is Mr. P. S. S. Macpherson.
chief executive and reviewed with the non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors performance is assessed by the chairman, The board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form the senior independent director and the chief executive.
The and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties and chairmans performance is reviewed by the non-executive directors, meets regularly throughout the year normally monthly to deal with led by the senior independent director, having consulted with the important aspects of the groups affairs, including setting and executive directors.
Following its annual performance review, the monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring adequate board concluded that each of its committees and each of its directors financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The chairman is remained effective and committed to their role.
indd 20 2 2 10 06 4:24:41 pm 10 06 4:24:41 pm Job: 7583 Closebros AR MID AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul o Date: 18 08 2006 Server: Studio II Set-up: paul o First Read Revisions Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In respect of the Audit and Compliance Committee, the board are The head of group control reports through the audit and compliance satisfied that the chairman of that committee, Mr. D. G. J. Paterson, committee to the board, to which he has unrestricted access through has recent and relevant financial experience.
Independence of Non-executive Directors The company has complied with the Turnbull Committees guidance The board is of the opinion that each non-executive director acts in for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the groups an independent and objective manner.
Within the terms of the significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by Combined Code these directors were independent with the the board, and which has been in place for the year ended 31st July, exception of Mr. R. D. Kent who was an executive director until 2006 and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements.
The boards opinion was determined by considering for each non-executive director: whether he is Auditors Independence independent in character and judgement: how he conducts himself in The group employs two firms of auditors.
Ernst & Young LLP are the board meetings: whether he has any relationships or whether there auditors of Close Brothers Limited, the banking subsidiary, and its are any circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to subsidiaries and of Close Brothers Seydler AG.
Deloitte & Touche affect, his judgement: and whether he acts in the best interests of the LLP are the auditors of the company and the remainder of the group.
company and all its shareholders at all times.
Furthermore, in determining that Messrs. P. N. Buckley and M. G. A. McLintock are In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the group will independent notwithstanding their directorships of Caledonia typically use the auditors for other work that they are well placed to Investments plc which owns approximately 12% of the company undertake because of that role.
This includes formalities relating to and Prudential plc which has an interest in approximately 11% of the borrowings, shareholder and other circulars: regulatory, pension company held across a range of its investment and managed funds scheme and other ancillary audit work: work in respect of respectively, the board took into account that neither of them attends acquisitions and disposals: and tax compliance.
board meetings as appointee of those companies.
Additionally, in respect of Mr. Buckley, who has served on the board for ten years, Several firms are considered for other work, including the auditors the board believes that it is essential that non-executive directors in some instances.
In such cases due consideration is given to the have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the impact of the assignment on the independence of the auditors and to knowledge and experience of the business and the sectors within their qualifications to carry out the role, including competitive tenders which the group operates.
Internal Control Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal auditors, and after review with the responsible partners in the two firms control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal and the executive directors, the Audit and Compliance Committee is control is designed to ensure that the reputational, financial, satisfied as to the independence of the statutory auditors.
operational and compliance risks taken by the company and its subsidiaries in the conduct of their business are identified and Relations with Shareholders evaluated so that appropriate controls are put in place to manage The group has a programme of communication with shareholders those risks.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than through the interim and annual reports, the AGM and regular eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can webcasts.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to participate by only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material asking questions at the AGM, or by submitting written questions in misstatement or loss.
The groups website at www.
co. uk contains information on the group, including up to date relevant shareholder The system of internal control is supported by a well established information, as well as information on the products and services it organisational structure within the group, with clear levels of offers.
Communication with the groups major institutional responsibility and delegation of authority and a strong control culture shareholders is undertaken by a programme of visits and embedded in the day to day management of each operating presentations.
Feedback from this programme is reported to the company.
Each operating company in the group regularly undertakes board to ensure it develops an understanding of the views of the a review of, and reports to its board on, these controls and major shareholders of the company.
procedures, having due regard to its key risks.
Where necessary, steps are taken to improve internal control and risk management Going Concern further, following these reviews.
The Finance and Risk Management The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as section of the Review of Operations on pages 14 and 15 details these the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial key risks and explains how they are controlled.
statements, the group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Group control, which is the central internal audit and compliance unit, regularly reviews the effectiveness of controls and procedures established by the company and its operating businesses to manage key risks.
indd 21 2 2 10 06 4:24:41 pm 10 06 4:24:41 pm Job: 7583 Closebros AR MID AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul o Date: 18 08 2006 Server: Studio II Set-up: paul o First Read Revisions 22 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Attendance at Meetings The table below identifies the number of board and committee meetings held in the year to 31st July, 2006 and the attendance record of their members.
Scheduled Audit and Nomination and board Compliance Remuneration Governance meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 11 5 3 2 Executive: M. A. Hines 10 S. R. Hodges 11 C. D. Keogh 10 D. C. Pusinelli 11 P. L. Winkworth 9 Non-executive: 2 3 P. N. Buckley 10 4 3 1 1 2 B. N. Carnegie-Brown 2 3 R. D. Kent 9 1 3 P. S. S. Macpherson 11 5 3 1 M. G. A. McLintock 9 3 2 3 D. G. J. Paterson 11 5 1 Sir David Scholey 10 2 3 J. P. Williams 11 5 1 1 Mr. B. N. Carnegie-Brown was appointed a director on 22nd June, 2006 and therefore could have attended only two board meetings during the year.
2 On 21st September, 2006 Mr. B. N. Carnegie-Brown was appointed to the Audit and Compliance Committee when Mr. P. N. Buckley retired from this Committee.
3 On 24th November, 2005 Messrs. P. S. S. Macpherson, D. G. J. Paterson and J. P. Williams were appointed to the Nomination and Governance Committee when Messrs. P. N. Buckley and R. D. Kent retired from this Committee.
Consequently each of these committee members was only eligible to attend one meeting during the year.
