Corporate Governance Report The directors are responsible for the corporate governance of the Group.
They support the principles of good corporate governance and code of best practice laid down by the Revised Combined Code the Code adopted by the Financial Services Authority following the Higgs and Smith reviews.
Until the date of the demerger, the activities of the Company were governed by the corporate governance framework of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
Following the demerger, the Company has applied the principles of good governance set out in the Code to the extent possible, given that the demerger and listing occurred just days prior to the year end.
The Board has initiated a review of the present arrangements and intends to implement the procedures required to comply with the internal control aspects of the Code.
Directors The Board comprises three Executive directors, four Non-executive directors and the Chairman, whose biographies are set out on pages 18 to 19.
In order to provide experience and consistency two Non-executive directors of Collins Stewart Tullett plc have joined the board, while the other two Non-executive directors have been recruited externally having had no previous association with the business.
All of the Non-executive directors are considered to be independent under the Code.
In reaching this determination the Board has considered the position of Keith Hamill and Richard Kilsby as having previously been Non-executive directors of Collins Stewart Tullett plc and being Non-executive directors of Tullett Prebon plc, of which Terry Smith is Chief executive, and concluded that the limited nature of their financial and other relationships with those companies and other Directors does not preclude them from being independent as defined under the Code.
The Chairman, Terry Smith has a part time executive role and is responsible for supporting the management, strategy and certain client and business relationships.
Terry Smith is also responsible for the conduct of the Board and its collective oversight of the Companys affairs and strategy.
The Chief Executive, Joel Plasco, is responsible for the management of the business, the coordination of its activities and the development of strategy.
The Deputy Chairman, Keith Hamill is responsible for supporting the Chairman with regard to management of the Board.
Following the formation of the Board, Keith Hamill is holding the position of Senior Independent Non-executive director pending review of Board arrangements.
The Senior Independent Non-executive director has responsibility for dealing with any shareholders who have concerns, which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board believes that these arrangements facilitate the effective management of the business and provide a strong control environment.
The directors biographies demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgment on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the success of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
A statement of the directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 39, and a statement on going concern is set out below.
The directors receive ongoing training including an induction programme tailored to meet the needs of the individual.
The directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments to the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
28 Collins Stewart plc The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
Each of the Committees will be establishing detailed terms of reference and a schedule of business to be transacted during the year.
The responsibilities of each of the Committees together with an overview of their meetings during the year are described below.
The Board and Audit Committee held one full meeting between the Company being admitted on 19 December 2006 and the end of the year.
All members of the Board and the Audit Committee at that time attended these meetings.
Board Administration The Board intends to have a schedule of eight meetings per annum to discuss the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort will be made to arrange these meetings so that all directors can attend.
Additional meetings will be arranged throughout the year as required to address matters arising.
The Board will be provided with appropriate information on a timely basis to enable it to discharge its duties.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including, inter alia, developing the future direction of the Groups business, agreeing policies and procedures, approving material transactions, budgets and borrowings and monitoring the Groups progress.
All directors will receive written reports prior to each Board meeting which will enable them to make an informed decision on corporate and business issues under review.
All Board meetings will be minuted and any unresolved concerns will be recorded in such minutes.
Beneath the Board there will be a structure of delegated authority which will set out the authority levels allocated to the individual directors and senior management.
Reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual directors will be undertaken during 2007.
In this process, consideration will be given to whether the Board or Committee fulfilled its terms of reference satisfactorily, whether the terms of reference need to be revised, whether the administration operated effectively and whether individual directors performed their roles effectively.
The Non-executive directors will be responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the Chairman, including a meeting conducted in his absence.
The terms of the directors service agreements and letters of appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting of shareholders after their appointment.
At the forthcoming AGM, in May, Patrick OSullivan and Iain Napier will be subject to election as this will be the first AGM after their appointment.
The Board considers that both directors have extensive knowledge and experience of relevant business issues which will be of considerable value to the Board and accordingly proposes that they should be elected.
In the event that any of the Executive directors wish to take up a non-executive appointment with another company, the Board would be amenable to such a proposal, provided that the time commitment involved would not be too onerous.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 Corporate Governance Report continued The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive directors will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other than public holidays at the Companys offices from the date the notice of Annual General Meeting is posted until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and there are procedures in place for taking independent professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
The Company Secretary will be responsible for ensuring that the Board keeps up to date with key changes and developments to the legislative and regulatory environments which affect the Company.
The Company Secretary will also be responsible for ensuring that directors receive ongoing training including an induction programme tailored to meet the needs of the individual.
Audit Committee The Board initially appointed Keith Hamill as chairman of the Audit Committee until 8 March 2007, when Patrick OSullivan took over the role.
Keith Hamill remains a member of the Committee, together with Richard Kilsby.
Iain Napier has joined the Committee since the yearend.
All of the members are independent Non-executive directors.
The Companys external auditors, the Chairman, the Executive directors and other appropriate members of senior management may attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee will meet at least three times a year.
The Committee will have a discussion with the external auditors at least once a year without Executive directors being present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
The Audit Committee met once in 2006 during the short period of listing.
The Committees terms of reference include monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the scope and findings of the external audit, assessing the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and making recommendations for the re-appointment or removal of the external auditors, monitoring the internal audit function, reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control procedures, and overseeing and assessing the risk control system and reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties.
The Audit Committee will be responsible for reviewing the interim and preliminary announcements of results and the statutory accounts prior to their approval by the Board.
When conducting the review, the Committee will consider the continuing appropriateness of the accounting policies, judgements made in the production of the numbers and the adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures.
The Audit Committee received an initial corporate risk assessment report following an annual review of the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems and reported to the Board thereon.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other than public holidays at the Companys offices from the date the notice of Annual General Meeting is posted until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
30 Collins Stewart plc Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Richard Kilsby, who is the Committees Chairman, Keith Hamill, Patrick OSullivan and since the year end, Iain Napier, all of whom are independent Non-executive directors.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Remuneration Committee: agreeing the remuneration of the Executive directors and the Chairman: recommending and monitoring the structure of remuneration of senior management: and, granting share incentives under the Companys employee share plans.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any week day other than public holidays at the Companys offices from the date the notice of Annual General Meeting is posted until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman and Chief Executive attend certain parts of meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Further details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and share options are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Nominations Committee The Board has established a Nominations Committee chaired by Keith Hamill.
All Non-executive directors will be members of this Committee.
The Nominations Committee will be responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
For non-executive appointments, the Committee will also consider the time commitment involved in the appointment in arriving at its decision and this will be reflected in all new letters of appointment.
The Board retained the services of an external search consultancy to assist with the appointment of Patrick OSullivan and Iain Napier.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk policies and ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management framework and will be monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging its responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and to report to the Board thereon.
This process will be reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance appended to the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The key risks facing the business are described in the Operating and Financial Review on page 16.
These risks will be assessed before any new business is established and monitored on a day to day basis as part of the normal management process.
The Group intends to adopt a single set of policies for the management of risk to be applied across all activities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management and the operation of the internal control systems within the Group will primarily be the responsibility of the Executive directors and the senior management.
These individuals will be allowed commercial independence and flexibility within parameters agreed by the Board to ensure that risks are clearly owned and managed on a day to day basis and that systems of control operate effectively.
The Executive directors will monitor activities on a daily basis and ensure that the appropriate controls are exercised over the Groups operations.
The Board will consider the monthly management accounts, budgets and plans and discuss any issues arising there from.
The systems of internal control operated by the Group will be designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and will only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Compliance The Group has a compliance function which ensures that all the Groups entities meet the rules of the regulators in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The compliance officers are in regular contact with the Group compliance officer and other senior management and report to the Audit Committee and the Board as appropriate.
The Group is regulated on a consolidated basis by the Financial Services Authority.
The Company ensures that its controls are consistent with the Integrated Prudential Source Book.
The calculation of regulatory capital altered with the introduction of the Transitional Provisions of the Capital Requirements Directive in 2007.
The Group continues to maintain sufficient regulatory capital in all its regulated entities and at the Group level.
Internal Audit The Group has a transitional agreement in place with Tullett Prebon plc to provide internal audit services that include undertaking reviews and providing objective analysis, appraisals, advice and recommendations concerning the activities reviewed.
The Board will review the Internal Audit arrangements for the Group during the new year.
Going Concern The directors have satisfied themselves, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and for this reason the financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
32 Collins Stewart plc Relations with Shareholders The Board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders.
com, provides information for shareholders on the Groups activities, announcements, shareholder presentations and meetings.
Websites for various operating subsidiaries also exist providing information on products and services.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts, including presentations around the time of the results announcements and also on request.
Following formal presentations to shareholders, the Companys brokers additionally provide feedback to the Board from shareholders.
The Deputy Chairman will also maintain informal relations with shareholders when necessary and is available to those shareholders who have a policy of regular contact or who wish to discuss specific matters.
The senior independent Non-executive director and the other Non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders, should such meetings be requested.
The Operating and Financial Review in this report and accounts includes a detailed review of the business and future developments.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings will be disclosed at those meetings and published on the Companys website.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system will be offered the facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
