Corporate Governance The Directors are committed to integrity and accountability in the Dividends: stewardship of the Groups affairs.
For the Company, corporate Executive appointments: governance covers not only the Principles of Good Governance and Treasury policy and risk management.
Code of Best Practice contained within the Combined Code but also wider business practices, such as social and environmental Dame Anita and Gordon Roddick are not considered to be performance and animal protection.
independent Non-Executive Directors due to their past executive The Directors consider that the Company has been compliant service with the Company and their continuing significant throughout the period under review with the provisions of Section 1 shareholdings.
All the other Non-Executive Directors are considered of the revised Combined Code issued in July 2003. to be independent.
The following statement describes how the principles set out in Jack Keenan is the Senior Independent Director.
He is the Combined Code applicable during the period under review have available to meet shareholders on request and ensures that the been applied.
Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through existing channels.
Board of Directors There is a clear division of responsibility between the Executive The Board of Directors throughout the year consisted of Adrian Chairman Adrian Bellamy, and the Chief Executive Officer Peter Bellamy Executive Chairman, Peter Saunders Chief Executive Saunders.
If acting in an executive capacity, the Chairman agrees Officer and Non-Executive Directors as set out in the table below.
his specific area or functions with the Chief Executive Officer and The Board and its Committees met regularly throughout the year.
interacts with management through him.
The number of scheduled meetings and attendance of the Directors Responsibility for management of the Groups operations is are shown in the table below: delegated to members of the Executive Committee, which consists of the Chief Executive Officer together with the four regional heads Board Nominations Audit Remuneration and the seven central departmental heads.
The Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee responsibilities include: Meetings held in year Developing the business in accordance with its under review 6 2 4 4 Mission Statement: Adrian Bellamy 6 2 4 4 Day to day management of the business: Formulation and implementation of the Groups strategy Peter Saunders 6 2 3 4 and agreed plans: Non-Executive Directors: Reporting to the Board: Making recommendations to the Board: Peggy Bruzelius Communicating to employees on a regular basis.
appointed 18 Nov 2005 1 2 0 1 1 1 Members of the Executive Committee attend the Board on a Jack Keenan 6 2 4 4 rotational basis to update the Board on their area of responsibility.
Howard Mann OBE The Board receives monthly management accounts and appointed 18 Nov 2005 2 2 1 1 1 1 information for Board meetings is circulated in advance.
New Directors undertake a formal induction and familiarisation Irene Miller 6 2 4 4 programme on joining the Company, based on their need to have Dame Anita Roddick 6 1 2 a general understanding of how the Group operates worldwide and of the specific information that is produced to the Board.
Once Gordon Roddick 6 1 3 appointed, Directors remain familiar with the business through the Ronald fide Waal phasing of the matters considered by the Board, regular meetings resigned 18 Nov 2005 3 4 1 2 1 3 1 3 with management and visits to shops and regions.
The Board has started a policy of holding some meetings in markets around the By invitation world, facilitating interaction with the regional management teams and overall knowledge of the international business.
Directors also In addition, the Board meets on an ad-hoc basis to implement benefit from the diversity of experience of the Board members.
routine and administrative matters that have been approved in They can attend training courses if required.
principle at the scheduled Board meetings.
The Board completed and discussed a self-evaluation The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it, questionnaire in December 2005 which covered the Board, its which includes approving: committees and its relationship with management.
The performance The Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy: of the Chairman was also subject to evaluation, led by the Senior Acquisitions, disposals and major investments: Independent Director.
Annual operating and capital budgets: All Directors submit themselves for re-election at least once Annual accounts and announcement of annual and interim every three years.
Gordon Roddick and Jack Keenan retire at this results: years AGM and the Nominations Committee has recommended their 26 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Audit Committee re-appointment as Directors.
In addition Peggy Bruzelius and Howard Mann, having been appointed as Directors during the The Audit Committee is chaired by Irene Miller with Jack Keenan, Peggy Bruzelius appointed 18 November 2005, Howard Mann year, will also retire at this years AGM and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The rotation for the Non-Executive Directors is set appointed 18 November 2005 and Ronald fide Waal resigned 18 November 2005 also serving on the Committee.
All the members out in the Remuneration Report.
Adrian Bellamy is not a full time Executive of the Company.
of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee has at least one member possessing what the Details of his other directorships and those held by other Directors are set out in their biographical details on page 24.
Smith Report describes as recent and relevant experience.
Irene Miller was Chief Financial Officer of Barnes & Noble Inc until 1997.
Relations with Shareholders The Directors biographical details on page 24 demonstrate that all The Group is committed to maintaining good communications with the members of the Committee bring a wide range of experience shareholders, ensuring that all shareholders are kept informed of from positions held at the highest level both in the UK and significant Group developments and price sensitive information in internationally.
accordance with the Listing Rules.
Both the external and internal auditors are present at the The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Finance meetings, and it is common for the Committee to meet the external & IT hold regular meetings with the Companys principal institutional auditors without management present.
Private meetings with the shareholders and analysts and feedback is provided to the Board internal auditor are scheduled as required.
The Chairman, Chief on a regular basis.
A full presentation is made to the investment Executive Officer and Director of Finance & IT regularly attend the community in conjunction with the announcement of half year Audit Committee at the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman, and full year results.
All Directors attend the Annual General and other members of management attend the Audit Committee Meeting and are available to answer questions from shareholders meetings as necessary.
The details of proxy votes will be communicated to In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee shareholders present at the Annual General Meeting in July 2006 is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and subsequently on the Companys web site.
of the Group, including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcements Board Committees There are three Board committees that operate within defined relating to its financial performance.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the terms of reference: the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Groups external auditors, and for overseeing the relationship between the Group and committees are available from the Company.
the external auditors, including non-audit services and associated The Nominations Committee fees.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups The Nominations Committee is chaired by Adrian Bellamy with Jack internal audit function including its terms of reference, scope and Keenan, Irene Miller, Peggy Bruzelius appointed 18 November resources, in the context of the Groups overall risk management 2005, Howard Mann appointed 18 November 2005 and Ronald fide system.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be Waal resigned 18 November 2005 also serving on the Committee.
Additional members of the Board and external advisors can attend In the year under review, the Audit Committee discharged its meetings of the Committee by invitation.
responsibilities by: The responsibilities of the Committee include: Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board: results statement prior to Board approval, together with the Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board external auditors detailed reports on these: candidates to fill vacancies on the Board: Reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Reviewing the re-election of Directors as they retire by controls, policies and procedures adopted during the year.
rotation under the Companys articles of association.
Detail on the accounting policies adopted can be found on pages 42 to 45 : The Committee was responsible for the appointment of two new Reviewing the Groups Christmas trading statement prior Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The Committee briefed an to release: external search consultancy to assist it in identifying potential Reviewing the Groups progress towards the implementation candidates based on agreed criteria, recognising the additional skills of International Financial Reporting Standards: required by the Board.
A number of potential candidates were short Reviewing and approving the external audit fee and listed by the consultancy and interviewed by members of the Board monitoring the non-audit fees payable to the external before the final invitations were extended to the new Directors.
auditors: The Committee has reviewed the re-appointment of Jack Reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for Keenan and Gordon Roddick as Non-Executive Directors and the audit of the Group accounts including key risks, plus confirmed that, on the basis of the continuing effective contribution approving their terms of engagement: made by both Directors, their re-appointment should be Reviewing and approving the terms of reference for Internal recommended to the Board and to shareholders.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Corporate Governance continued Audit, its programme of work and internal audit reports All the members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive as issued: Directors.
Additional members of the Board, members of the Reviewing the risks associated with major business Executive Committee and external advisors attend meetings of programmes including acquisitions and IT investment: the Committee by invitation.
Receiving regular updates on the key risk areas identified The responsibilities of the Committee include: through the Risk Management Working Party and assessing Reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the internal control framework: the Remuneration Policy: Reviewing the Committees own terms of reference and Determining the total remuneration and employment terms performance as part of a wider Board exercise: of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and members of the Receiving notification of any whistle blowing incidents and executive management team: ensuring there is adequate follow up to such matters.
Approving the design, targets and annual payments under The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure any performance related pay schemes: that the independence of the Group audit is not compromised.
Reviewing the design of share incentive plans and approving These include: the allocation of awards under such plans: Determining the policy for pension arrangements and Seeking confirmation from the auditors that, in their reviewing the pension scheme annually: professional opinion, they are independent of the Company: Ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any Reviewing the economic importance of the Company to the payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company.
external auditors and assessing whether that importance impairs, or appears to impair, their judgement or Further information on the responsibilities and activities of the independence.
Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 34.
The Committee has also approved a policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The policy dictates Internal Control and Risk Management that the external auditors shall only provide those services that do The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of not conflict with the external auditors independence or objectivity.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such That is to say, the Committee should not agree to the auditor a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of providing a service if, having regard to the ethical and other failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can provide only guidance available and all relationships between the Company and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the audit firm, the result is that: misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the guidance for directors Internal Control: the external auditor audits its own firms work: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull the external auditor makes management decisions for guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for the Company: identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by a mutuality of interest is created: or the Group: that this process has been in place for the year under the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Company.
Accounts: and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
A list of prohibited services has been generated which is contained The Board has reviewed on an annual and ongoing basis the in the policy.
In addition, a number of pre-approval limits have been effectiveness of the system of internal control, the process for set for non-audit services that are not deemed to be prohibited, but identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business, must be controlled.
Any activities that may be perceived to be in together with the policies and procedures by which risks are conflict with the role of the external auditor or are likely to exceed managed.
Managers are responsible for the identification and the pre-approval limits must be submitted to the Committee for prior evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of the approval.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during business, together with the design and operation of suitable the year for audit and non-audit services are set out in the Notes to controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and details the Accounts on page 49. of significant risks and how they are being managed are reported to the Risk Management Working Party.
The Remuneration Committee The Risk Management Working Party reports to the Board The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jack Keenan with Irene and meets regularly to review the major risks to the Group and Miller, Peggy Bruzelius appointed 18 November 2005, Howard the system of internal control in place to manage those risks.
Mann appointed 18 November 2005 and Ronald fide Waal During the year under review, the Risk Management Working resigned 18 November 2005 also serving on the Committee.
Party comprised the Executive Chairman Chair, the Director 28 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 of Finance & IT and the Internal Audit Manager.
The minutes of the Risk Management Working Party are circulated to all Audit Committee members.
The Risk Management Working Party monitored the following major risks during the year: Avian flu Seasonality of business Transaction decline Channel conflict Brand reputation Values Political and cultural instability Reliance on central functions Head franchisee relationship and succession management Terrorism Americas region stability Foreign exchange currency fluctuation impact on The Body Shop and its franchisees Changing nature of gifting Staff retention and recruitment.
For the year under review, these risks were categorised as either: strategic: operational: financial: or compliance reputational.
Within these categories, the risks were then scored against the potential cost and probability of the risks occurring, with the actions being taken to mitigate these risks also reported and monitored.
The Risk Management Working Party, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, reviews and directs the work of Internal Audit, which provides regular audit reports to the Board in accordance with a risk-based audit plan.
Additional internal control systems are in place to ensure alignment between the Groups operational performance and its ethical policies.
The Directors accept responsibility for ensuring that appropriate management systems and processes are maintained for monitoring the Groups commitment to continuous improvement in its ethical performance.
Going Concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29
