qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 15 Internal Control During the year the Company appointed Credit-Suisse Securities The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Europe Limited and Lehman Brothers Europe Limited as joint and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to brokers.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business EMPLOYMENT objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance The Group recognises the value that can be added to its future against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
The commitment of the 2003 Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, of employees to excel is key to the Groups continued success.
evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks Through their attendance at, or participation in, production, safety and arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date with the The Board continuously and regularly reviews the process, which has performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the been in place from the start of 2000 to the date of approval of this report Group made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors During 2006 the Group published, via the Group extranet, two ten on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Boards language editions of EveryBody Extra an electronic magazine for monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and all staff detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on personalities.
Approximately 2,000 Bodycote employees are connected reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider to the Bodycote extranet, which will improve knowledge of Group whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate activities, and assist greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists The winter 2005 edition of EveryBody Extra featured the Groups the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
During 2006, open door policy under which employee concerns can be voiced on in compliance with provision C. 2.1, the Board also performed a specic a condential basis.
assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
The assessment It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular the period covered by the report including the work of Internal Audit.
aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career In addition, the Managing Director of each of the Groups Strategic development of all personnel employed by the Group, including Business Units reported on the existing internal control procedure and disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled the Group, any failings or weaknesses.
They identied and made an assessment where practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange of the risks affecting the businesses they control, in each case with the appropriate training.
An equal opportunities policy is in operation in assistance of input from those reporting directly to them.
were measured against their own stated objectives, and actions for any improvements were scheduled against a timetable for later verication RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT by Internal Audit.
No significant previously unidentified risks were Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies uncovered as part of this process, and the necessary actions have been is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy of deploying the best or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts identied as part of the review.
research programmes with its customers.
Investor relations DONATIONS The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has to 16,600 2005: 12,000.
There were no political contributions.
enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the CREDITORS POLICY Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual General Meeting now Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
It is Group shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price via terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also complied with the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the website applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days at the year end for the can also enrol free for a service that automatically noties them of Company were 45 days 2005: 45 days.
results announcements and recent significant Group events.
Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public relations SHAREHOLDERS consultants provide Directors with opinion surveys from analysts and An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue at investing institutions following visits and meetings with the Chief 19 February 2007 and details of major shareholders interests appearing Executive and Finance Director.
Non-Executive Directors are themselves in the register maintained pursuant to Section 211 of the Companies invited to attend analysts presentations at the time of the regular Act 1985 are given on page 80. results announcements.
As stated on page 14 the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
On specic issues, as with the introduction in 2003 of the share option scheme, in 2005 with the stock bonus plan and in 2006 with the introduction of long term incentive and share matching schemes, the Company will seek the views of leading investors.
