Corporate governance The requirements of corporate governance are set out in the Financial Services Authority independent consultants every other year.
The board considers the outcome of the FSA Listing Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of programme in its evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of the board, and the Best Practice the Combined Code, adopted by the FSA.
nominations committee applies the output in formulating its development plans for the board.
Directors are assisted in complying with the internal control requirements of the Combined Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from the AGM Code by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales publication Internal following their joining the board, and subject to performance and reappointment where Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
appropriate, there is an expectation of renewal of that appointment for a further three-year period.
Exceptionally, non-executive directors may be invited to serve for a third and final The board considers that good corporate governance is an essential element of achieving three-year term.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the board in the absence its overall objectives.
It has reviewed the groups corporate governance policies and of the non-executive directors.
practices, and has determined that during the period 1st April 2005 to 31st March 2006 the company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Details of executive directors service contracts are given on page 50.
All executive directors normally retire on reaching the age of 60.
Details of the Chairmans appointment The board are given on page 50.
Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment are available On 31st March 2006, the board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and four for inspection at the companys registered office and at the AGM.
There were a number of changes to the composition of the board All directors appointed by the board must stand for reappointment at the first AGM during the year.
Mr H Dodd resigned from the board on 18th May 2005 and Mr J Bennink following their appointment, and thereafter at least every three years.
In addition, at least retired from the board on 21st July 2005.
Dr Martin Read will retire from the board at the one third of the continuing members of the board must retire, and if willing, stand for 2006 annual general meeting, having completed two three-year terms as a non-executive reappointment at each AGM.
Directors retiring and those standing for reappointment at director.
Mr J R Smart was appointed to the board as chief financial officer on 3rd October the 2006 AGM are identified on page 59.
The board has reviewed the composition of the board, and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience its members brought, and concluded that the board was of The non-executive directors bring a variety of experience and expertise to the board and the appropriate size and balance for the company.
are all considered to be independent.
Sir Nigel Rudd was considered by the board to be independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
The board considers that an Mr G N Dawson has been appointed the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies and independent director is one who is independent in character and judgment, and where other details of members of the board of directors are shown on page 30 and, for those there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect the directors judgment.
seeking reappointment, in the AGM notice.
Relationships or circumstances which could affect judgment include having been previously The Chairman meets with individual directors privately at least once a year to review their an employee of the company, having had close ties with any of the companys advisors, contribution to the board and personal development plans including training needs.
Further, directors or senior managers, having had a material relationship with the company, the Chairman meets with the non-executive directors as a group four times a year in the receiving additional remuneration from the company apart from directors fees, absence of the executive directors.
As part of the board evaluation programme, the nonparticipating in the companys performance related pay or pension schemes, holding executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director review the performance of the cross directorships, having significant links with other directors, representing a significant Chairman, having considered the views of the executive directors.
shareholder, or having served on the board for more than nine years.
During the previous year the board undertook a review of the board as a whole, its The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and chief executive is in writing and committees and its members, assisted by independent consultants.
The review included has been agreed by the board.
The Chairmans responsibilities broadly follow the guidance confidential interviews with each director, when they had an opportunity to express their given in the Combined Code, while Mr R A Baker, the chief executive, is responsible for views on their overall impression of the board and its committees and their organisation, leading the executive management of the company in the achievement of the companys composition, involvement in the business and effectiveness: the roles and contributions of objectives, and for the proper and successful management of the business.
board members: communications with shareholders: stakeholder issues and succession The board has a programme to enable it to discharge its responsibility for providing planning.
The results were consolidated and reported to the Chairman and, in so far as they entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective related to the board as a whole, to the board and, in so far as they related to the Chairman, controls, and to assess and manage risk.
The board has eight regular meetings in the year, to the Senior Independent Director.
This year the board decided to conduct a review including two strategy meetings, and other meetings are convened as required.
In this year, without involving consultants and confidential interviews but covering the same areas other four additional meetings took place.
than the contribution made by individual directors.
It is the boards intention to involve 40 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Social Responsibilities Committee Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum possible possible possible possible possible attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance R A Baker 12 12 P Bateman 12 12 44 JBennink 0402011302 G N Dawson 12 12 4 4 3 3 H Dodd 1 2 T CParker 12 12 4433553 4 HPloix 11 12 44334544 Dr M P Read 9 12 2 3 5 5 Sir Nigel Rudd 12 12 3 3 J R Smart 5 5 The table above shows the attendance of directors at board meetings and at meetings of Full year and interim results are reviewed by the board audit committee and approved the audit, nominations, remuneration and social responsibilities committees during the year.
by the board prior to publication, and during the year the board established the board All directors have attended meetings of the board and of committees of the board of which disclosure committee, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 44. they are members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments particularly in the The composition and terms of reference of board committees, and a summary of the case of additional meetings called at short notice.
current terms of reference and details of membership of major board committees during A schedule of matters reserved for decision by the board is maintained, including the the year are set out on pages 42 to 44. approval of the annual report and accounts, the long-term objectives of the company, In the furtherance of their duties, the directors have full access to the services of the strategy to achieve those objectives, the annual operating plan including the allocation the company secretary and may take independent professional advice, at cost to the of human and financial resources and against which business performance is assessed, company, subject to a limit of 25,000 and to prior notification to the chairman of the audit significant investment and disposal decisions, the structure of the group, payment of committee.
In addition, each of the committees of the board is entitled to take independent dividends, changes in accounting policies and practices, remuneration of and changes to professional advice as appropriate.
The company maintains appropriate directors and the auditors, treasury policies, and the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
officers insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
The board delegates to management the management of the business.
The company provides corporate governance training to those directors for whom it is their For all board meetings an agenda is established.
For regular meetings this generally first appointment to a listed company board, and provides a tailored induction programme comprises: reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the operations for all directors on appointment.
The induction programme includes details of board and director: reports on the performance of the businesses: approval of major items company policies and procedures, information and briefings by members of management of expenditure, and other significant policy issues.
The board is also notified of any on the companys business and operations, and on laws and regulations particularly permissions given to directors and senior managers to deal in the securities of the applicable to them, and visits to stores, factories, warehouses and other operations.
company under the companys dealing code and receives reports from the committees The board is regularly updated on developments relating to the business of the company, of the board, to enable it to satisfy itself as to the matters within their remit.
Appropriate corporate governance and other matters of relevance, and non-executive directors attend papers are provided to the directors in advance of each board meeting.
In addition the the companys business conferences and visit the companys operations.
board considers at least annually the strategic plans of the group and of individual businesses, and from time to time directors receive presentations from management concerning key areas of the groups operations.
Annual report 2006 41 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Corporate governance The boards policy concerning the appointment of executive directors to be non-executive During the year, Mr J Bennink retired from the board and ceased to be a member of the directors of other companies is that the additional experience and knowledge such an committee, but other than that, there have been no changes to the structure or membership appointment brings benefits the company, and accordingly, executive directors are of the committee up to the date of this report.
The board nominations committee meets as permitted to accept one such appointment where no conflict of interest arises, and to dictated by circumstances and met three times during the year.
The main responsibilities of the board nominations committee are to: All non-executive directors disclosed to the board prior to appointment their significant Review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board and make other commitments, and they are required to notify and have notified any changes to recommendations to the board concerning that: or additional commitments from time to time.
Sir Nigel Rudd is non-executive chairman Give full consideration to succession planning for directors: of Pilkington a role he will shortly relinquish and of Pendragon and non-executive deputy Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board: chairman of Barclays.
The board is satisfied that Sir Nigel Rudd meets his obligations Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any particular board to the company.
appointment including that of the Chairman: The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which Identify and nominate for the approval by the board candidates to fill board vacancies have failed to be resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, chief executive or as and when they arise.
chief financial officer, or for which such channels are inappropriate.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the standing for The company secretary is an employee of the company and is secretary of all board reappointment of directors.
committees, and fulfils the responsibilities required of him by the Combined Code.
During the year under review, the chief financial officer was appointed after a search conducted by external consultants and recommendations made by the committee.
The Board committees committee also determined the desired capabilities, background and experience of a There are five principal board committees, all of which operate within written terms further non-executive director given the current balance of skills, knowledge and experience of reference.
Summaries of the terms of reference and details of the membership of on the board and a search was under way until the proposed merger with Alliance committees are set out below.
Copies of the terms of reference are available from the UniChem was announced.
It is intended that following completion of the merger, the company secretary and on the companys website.
Only members of each committee are committee will begin afresh the process of finding a further non-executive director.
The entitled to attend the meetings of committees, although each committee may invite other committee also recommended that directors standing for reappointment should do so.
directors, managers and advisors to attend and frequently do so.
Membership of board committees is regularly reviewed.
Given the size of the board and the need to have a Board audit committee quorum available, if necessary, at short notice, there is inevitably an overlap in directors Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: membership of committees, and in particular the board believes it appropriate for all the non-executive directors to be given the opportunity to participate in the work of the G N Dawson chairman, appointed September 2003 nominations committee.
However, the chairman of the remuneration committee does J Bennink appointed September 2001, retired 21st July 2005 not serve on the audit committee, and vice versa, and the board is satisfied that no one T C Parker appointed January 2004 director exercises a disproportionate influence.
Other than Dr Martin Read, who has served H Ploix appointed September 2000 on the remuneration committee for six years and is retiring from the board at the AGM, Mr G N Dawson, the current chairman of the committee, was until 2002 chairman of and the Chairman, who has served on the nominations committee for the same period, European Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch and is currently a partner in Tricorn Partners, no director has served on any committee for six years or more.
Attendance at meetings an independent corporate advisory business, and accordingly has recent and relevant of committees is set out on page 41. financial experience.
Board nominations committee The board audit committee met four times during the year.
The agenda for each meeting Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: is pre-planned to ensure that each aspect of the committees responsibilities is discharged as part of an annual cycle.
Sir Nigel Rudd chairman T C Parker G N Dawson J Bennink Dr M P Read H Ploix 42 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off The main responsibilities of the board audit committee are to: as advice on tax matters, advice on preparation of financial information, due diligence and related advice, preparation of completion accounts and training support.
Lastly, projects Monitor the integrity and clarity of the financial information and of the major financial where the work is clearly audit related and where the auditors are best placed to do it statements of the company, and to review any significant financial reporting issues and such as regulatory work and acting as reporting accountants do not of themselves require judgments those statements contain: approval, but given that the level of non-audit fees may themselves constitute a threat, Approve the annual external audit plan and to review with the external auditors the audit committee approval is required if total fees in this category exceed 0.5m.
nature, scope and results of their audit, and any control issues raised by them: Make recommendations as to the appointment, terms of engagement and remuneration The committee monitors the overall level of non-audit fees, is satisfied that its policy falls of the external auditors and review any question of their resignation or removal, and to within the requirements of the Auditing Practice Board, and ensures compliance with that review the effectiveness of the external auditors and their independence: policy.
The auditors annually confirm their policies on ensuring auditor independence and Review the consistency of and any changes to accounting policies, the application of provide the committee with a report on their own internal quality control procedures.
appropriate accounting standards, and the methods used to account for significant or In addition to discharging the responsibilities described above and its work in connection unusual transactions: with the audit and auditors, the committee during the year reviewed the implementation Approve the internal audit plan, monitor and review the effectiveness and freedom from of International Financial Reporting Standards, and in light of the APB Ethical standards management interference of the companys internal audit function, and to approve the issued on 17th December 2004 with which auditors must comply reviewed the auditor appointment and removal of the head of that function: terms and conditions and concluded that they are more than adequate.
Furthermore the Review the companys internal controls, systems and practices for the identification committee considered matters falling within its remit in respect of the proposed merger and management of risk: with Alliance UniChem.
Monitor compliance with the companys policies to prevent illegal and questionable corporate conduct and to review arrangements for whistleblowing.
Board remuneration committee The external auditors attend meetings of the committee, other than when their appointment Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: or performance is being reviewed, and the head of the internal audit function, the head of Dr M P Read chairman J Bennink the risk management function, the chief financial officer and members of the finance T C Parker H Ploix function attend as appropriate.
The committee meets with the auditors in the absence of management at least twice a year.
The committee also meets separately with the heads The board remuneration committee met five times during the year.
of the internal audit and risk management functions twice a year.
The main responsibilities of the committee are to: The external auditors are reappointed annually at the AGM.
The board audit committee Determine and review from time to time the framework, broad policy and specific terms considers the reappointment of the auditors and reports its findings to the board.
The for the remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of the Chairman of the board audit committee periodically considers the performance, cost and independence board and of executive directors, including the design of targets and payments made of the external auditors, including a comparison of audit fees with those of other retail under any bonus scheme: and FTSE 100 companies and reviews the level of service provided by the audit team Agree any compensation for loss of office of any executive director: throughout the group.
Recommend and monitor the level and structure of the remuneration of senior managers.
In March 2004 the committee adopted a new policy on the engagement of the auditors During the year under review the committee reviewed executive pension arrangements, to supply non-audit services to ensure that auditor independence is not compromised.
approved the remuneration arrangements for the new chief financial officer, implemented The policy identifies three categories of non-audit work.
Firstly, work such as systems the performance share plan following approval by the shareholders at the July 2005 AGM implementation, full outsourcing and preparation of accounting entries and financial and considered appropriate arrangements for executive directors leaving the company as information that the auditors are not to perform as to do so would represent a real threat a result of the proposed merger.
The committee also during the year reviewed salaries and to independence.
Secondly, some audit related and advisory services where work can allowances, made grants and made awards where appropriate under the performance only be undertaken by the auditors with the approval of the audit committee.
is sub-divided into those projects that require approval regardless of the fee level for example, staff secondments and advice on design and implementation of policies and A report on the remuneration of directors appears on pages 46 to 55. controls, and those projects where approval is required if fees exceed a set limit such Annual report 2006 43 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Corporate governance Board social responsibilities committee Investor relations Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
In addition to the annual and half year results presentations and the AGM, a programme of meetings between H Ploix chair P Bateman institutional shareholders and executive directors or the Chairman is held throughout the J Bennink T C Parker year.
A summary of the views expressed at these meetings is reported to the board.
At The board social responsibilities committee met four times during the year.
The main each board meeting a report is given on shareholders and analysts views, issues if any responsibility of the board social responsibilities committee is to keep under review and and expectations and periodically, external consultants attend a meeting of the board and advise the board on the companys policies and practices in the areas of social responsibility, present a report on shareholders concerns and expectations.
In addition, each director is including those relating to health and safety, the environment, diversity and equal provided with copies of reports prepared by analysts and brokers and with press cuttings, opportunities, race relations, employment of the disabled, charitable giving and ethical which are of particular value to the directors not resident in the UK.
Non-executive directors matters, and the companys values and standards.
are given an opportunity to attend meetings with shareholders, and each non-executive director is prepared to do so.
During the year, the committee reviewed those matters and policies within its remit and reviewed and monitored performance against agreed targets in the area of social All members of the board usually attend the AGM.
A business presentation is given at the responsibility.
meeting, followed by a question and answer session.
The notice of the meeting, together with any related papers, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Board disclosure committee meeting, or for those who have elected for electronic communication, notice is given to The board disclosure committee was established on 24th November 2005. such shareholders of the availability of documents on the companys website.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on each separate issue.
Postal proxy votes are counted All directors are members of the committee.
The quorum is two members, one of and the proxy votes lodged are announced after the vote on show of hands on each item.
whom must be the Chairman, the chief executive, the chief financial officer or the Senior Summary proxy figures are made available in writing at the end of the meeting and are also Independent Director.
The chairman of the committee is the Chairman, or in his absence published on the companys website.
the Senior Independent Director or failing him any member of the committee.
The committee meets as and when required and did not have cause to meet in the year Internal control under review.
The directors have overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather The main responsibilities of the committee are to: than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
Such a system can, Assist in the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of disclosure controls and however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material procedures: misstatement or loss.
Monitor compliance with the companys disclosure controls and procedures: Members of the board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and operations of Resolve questions about the materiality of information: individual businesses within the group.
This includes the review and approval of business Alert the company secretary if not attending the relevant meeting of the committee strategies and plans and the setting of key business performance targets.
The executive to the existence of inside information giving rise to the need for amendments to the management responsible for each business are accountable for the conduct and companys insider lists: performance of their business within the agreed strategies.
Generally review and advise on the scope and content of disclosure: Review any announcements dealing with significant developments in the companys Business plans and budgets provide a framework from which performance commitments business and ensure their accuracy: and have been agreed between the chief executive and each business.
These commitments Consider generally the requirement for announcements in the case of rumours relating incorporate financial and strategic targets against which business performance is to the company or in the case of a leak of inside information and in particular, the need monitored.
This monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual and to issue holding announcements.
half year forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
The committee is not responsible for the review of routine announcements such as director and company dealings, the appointment or removal of directors, directors responsibility changes, trading statements or announcements relating to the interim and preliminary results or to the AGM.
44 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off The group has clear requirements for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic Social, environmental and ethical matters investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal The company has for many years recognised the benefits that accrue from responsible detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the board.
Operating employment, environmental and community policies which are also described elsewhere in expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure this report.
Identifying and managing risks to the companys reputation has been described being determined by the individual businesses.
above and has a high priority.
The evaluation of the companys performance in social, environmental, community and ethical matters is ongoing.
Executive management is responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
These risks are assessed on Going concern a regular basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources.
Having considered group cash flow forecasts and strategic plans, the directors are satisfied During the year, a review of the groups risk management policy and processes was that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the undertaken.
From this review a number of improvements have been made, resulting in all foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in areas of the business applying a consistent approach to identifying, capturing, ranking and preparing the financial statements.
The board has established clear criteria to describe the levels of risk that it finds unacceptable, and where risks are identified that lie outside this tolerance, executive management must implement actions.
Each member of the executive and, where appropriate, other members of management annually complete tailored questionnaires relating to compliance with the groups policies and procedures concerning internal controls within their area of responsibility.
These questionnaires are audited by internal audit and the results presented firstly to the executive, and are then reviewed by the board audit committee.
The internal audit and risk management functions work throughout the group to further develop, improve and embed risk management processes and tools in the business operations.
They also provide assurance to the board that risk management practices address the key risks faced by the group including risks that could arise from social, environmental and ethical matters.
Their work includes an assessment of the risks and controls throughout the group and their findings are reported to senior management responsible for the area concerned.
They also report regularly to the board audit committee.
The board audit committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The external auditors, the head of the internal audit function and the head of the risk management function attend all meetings of the audit committee, save in the case of the external auditor, those parts of any meeting when the committee reviews the performance of the auditor and in every case when the committee is having separate discussions with the chief financial officer, the head of internal audit and the head of risk management.
The groups system of internal control and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed regularly by the board, the board audit committee, the internal audit function, the risk management function and management, and the board believes that the company has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts an effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with the Turnbull guidance.
Annual report 2006 45 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off
