Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of of the roles of the chairman and chief executive does corporate governance.
The Board has accordingly put not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust All of the Directors are considered by the Board to be company and which will enable the Company to independent of management and free from any comply with the relevant provisions of the Combined business or other relationship which could materially Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting interfere with the exercise of their independent Council in July 2003, and, where appropriate, the judgement.
provisions of the revised AITC Code of Corporate Governance the AITC Code.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 6 and 7 of this report.
The Directors believe that the Board has The Board is accountable to the Companys a balance of skills, experience, ages and length of shareholders for good governance and this statement services which enables it to provide effective strategic describes how the Company applies the principles and leadership and proper governance of the Company.
supporting principles identified in the Combined Code The Senior Independent Director is Richard Barfield and, where appropriate, the principles identified in the who was appointed to the role following the retirement AITC Code.
The Board believes that the Company has complied The Board usually meets at least nine times each year.
throughout the accounting period with the provisions There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as designed to address, in a systematic way, overall detailed below and, where appropriate, the Company strategy, review of investment policy, investment has also followed the recommendations set out in the performance, marketing achievements, promotional AITC Code.
material, budgets, dividend policy, gearing, asset allocation, peer group information, industry issues, DIRECTORS share price performance, share buy-backs, share price The Board has overall responsibility for the discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and Companys affairs.
It delegates, through an communication with shareholders.
Additionally, Board investment management agreement and through Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters specific instructions, the day to day management of referred from the Board as a whole and the Chairman the Company to the Manager, Fidelity Investments sees the other Directors regularly without International.
The Company has no executives or representatives of the Manager being present.
There is a formal schedule of matters Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to reserved for the Board which includes, inter alia, discharge its duties effectively and the table below decisions on gearing, Board appointments, gives the attendance record for the formal Board and appointment of the Company Secretary, strategy, Committee meetings held in the year.
Company structure and risk management strategy.
The Nomination Committee consists of all the Directors The Board presently consists of seven non-executive and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The Committee meets Directors, one of whom is Chairman.
The provision of on an annual basis and at such other times as may be the Combined Code which relates to the combination required.
The Committee has written terms of reference Board Nomination Audit Management Meetings Committee Committee Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Richard Barfield 9 9 2 2 4 4 2 2 1 Scott Dobbie 9 9 2 2 4 4 2 2 Ian Inglis 9 9 2 2 4 4 2 2 2 Eileen Mackay 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 4 James Pettigrew 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 Nicola Ralston 8 9 2 2 3 4 2 2 William Samuel 9 9 2 2 4 4 2 2 5 Sir Nigel Wicks 7 7 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the Audit Committee meetings.
2 Retired as a Director on 20 July 2005.
4 Attended one of the two meetings prior to appointment as a member.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 19 Corporate Governance Statement and is responsible, inter alia, for identifying and Ian Inglis retires by rotation at the forthcoming Annual nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to General Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
fill Board vacancies taking into account the need to Scott Dobbie also retires by rotation and being eligible maintain a balanced Board.
Care is taken to ensure that offers himself for re-election at the Annual General appointees have enough time to devote to the job.
The Board has endorsed his candidature and External consultants are also used to identify potential commends his re-election to shareholders as he has candidates and this process resulted in the appointment maintained his effectiveness as a Director and as of Sir Nigel Wicks and James Pettigrew as Directors on Chairman and continues to demonstrate his 24 May and 27 October 2005 respectively.
The commitment to the Company.
In accordance with the Committee also considers whether Directors should be Companys Articles of Association, James Pettigrew, recommended for re-election by shareholders.
who was appointed as a Director of the Company on 27 October 2005, holds office only until the Annual The Nomination Committees written terms of reference General Meeting.
He will offer himself for election by are available at the Companys registered office and on shareholders at that meeting.
The Board endorses his the Companys website at www.
candidature and commends his appointment to shareholders.
Letters of appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors on There is a procedure for Directors to take independent appointment and include details of the time professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys commitment required and expected duration of expense.
This is in addition to the access which every appointment.
The terms and conditions of appointment Director has to the advice and services of the Company of Directors are available for inspection at the registered Secretary, Fidelity Investments International, which is office of the Company.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or regulations are complied with.
she is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his or her duties and responsibilities as The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend Board, and therefore a separate remuneration some time with representatives of the Manager whereby committee has not been appointed.
Since all Directors he or she will become familiar with the various processes are non-executive, the Company is not required to which the Manager considers necessary for the comply with the principles of the Combined Code in performance of its duties and responsibilities to the respect of executive directors remuneration.
The Companys policy is to encourage fees are disclosed fully in each annual report see the Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 25. on matters which are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company: a number of such To meet the requirements of the Combined Code, an courses were attended in the year under review.
Thus evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of training is tailored to the needs of individual Directors individual members was conducted during the last and, in addition, the Company organises an annual quarter of the financial year.
This took the form of self offsite meeting at which the Directors consider a variety and peer group assessment by questionnaire followed of topics which are relevant to the Company and assists by discussions between the Chairman and the Directors.
the Directors in updating their skills and knowledge.
The The Chairmans performance was assessed by a Directors also receive regular briefings from, inter alios, meeting, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, of the AITC, the Auditors and the Company Secretary all the other Directors.
regarding any proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that could affect the Company and or the COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Directors.
The Directors place great importance on communication with the Companys shareholders.
The Manager carries A Director appointed during the year is required to out a programme of regular dialogue and individual retire and seek election by shareholders at the next meetings with institutional shareholders.
During the year Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year other Directors also met representatives of those major and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting shareholders who had accepted an invitation from the and also that every Director submit himself or herself Chairman to meet.
Written reports of all such meetings for re-election at least every three years.
Subject to are circulated to all Directors.
these requirements for re-election, Directors are appointed to the Board for a specified period, initially At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders have for three years and subsequent extensions are, in each the opportunity to put questions to the Board and a case, at the discretion of the Board.
Page 20 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance Statement presentation from the Manager covers the investment effectiveness of the audit process and the external performance and strategy during the financial year and Auditors independence and objectivity with particular the outlook for the year ahead.
The Board hopes that as regard to the provision of non-audit services.
The many shareholders as possible will be able to attend the provision of non-audit services is also subject to prior meeting.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the external Auditors in the absence of All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is representatives from the Manager at least once a year to called, the Chairman will indicate the level of proxies review these and other appropriate matters.
lodged for each resolution, the balance for and against Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual the resolution and the number of abstentions after it has General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the been dealt with on a show of hands.
external Auditors for the forthcoming year and to authorise the Directors to determine the level of The notice of meeting on page 46 sets out the business Auditors remuneration.
of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the the annual report and accounts.
external Auditors in connection with the financial statements appear on pages 23 and 26.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days In the year to 31 March 2006 the Audit Committee before the meeting.
discharged its responsibilities by inter alia: The Chairman of the Board, the Nomination Committee Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim and the Management Engagement Committee, Scott financial statements prior to Board approval and Dobbie, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ian reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon Inglis, will be available to answer questions at the Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
accounting policies Reviewing the potential impact of new Financial The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can Reporting Standards always be contacted either through the Company Reviewing and approving the audit fee and Secretary or care of the Companys registered office at 3 reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Companys Glenfinlas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AQ.
external Auditors Reviewing the external Auditors terms of ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT engagement An Audit Committee has been established which is Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit chaired by Ian Inglis, consisting of all the Directors with of the Companys financial statements the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The qualifications of the Reviewing the external Auditors quality control members of the Audit Committee are included in their procedures biographies on pages 6 and 7.
The Board has taken Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the note of the suggestion that at least one member of the external audit process and the external Auditors Audit Committee should have recent and relevant independence and objectivity financial experience and is satisfied that the Audit Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
Managers internal audit department Reviewing a semi-annual report on internal controls The Committee meets at least four times a year and its and reporting to the Board as described below authority and duties are clearly defined in its written Recommending the re-appointment of the external terms of reference which are available at the Companys Auditors registered office and on the Companys website.
These duties include: discussing with the external Auditors the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such external Auditors quality control procedures: a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate considering the scope of work undertaken by the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Managers internal audit department: monitoring the only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance integrity of the financial statements of the Company: against material misstatement or loss.
reviewing the interim and annual financial statements of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys systems including financial, operational and compliance significant business and operational risks, that it has controls and risk management.
They also include been in place for the year ended 31 March 2006 and up responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the to the date of approval of the annual report and The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 21 Corporate Governance Statement accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and terminate the Management Agreement without accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
compensation in the two months following a change of control of Fidelity.
The Manager is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and The Management Engagement Committee which was to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends to established in January 2004 with written terms of operational and compliance controls and risk reference meets at least once a year.
Clear lines of accountability have been terms of reference are available at the Companys established between the Board and the Manager and registered office and on the Companys website.
The regular reports on controls and compliance issues are Committee consists of all the Directors and is chaired provided to the Audit Committee.
In carrying out its by Scott Dobbie.
In conducting its annual review of the review, the Audit Committee has had regard to the investment management and secretarial arrangements, activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and the Committee considers inter alia investment risk functions and the external Auditors.
The Audit performance, marketing performance, the Committees review also includes consideration of FRAG performance of the Companys Secretariat, the Finance 21 and similar reports issued by the Manager and other and Control environment, Compliance and Audit and service providers.
the terms of the Management Agreement.
Following the most recent review, the Board, upon the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion function.
The Board has decided that the systems and that the continued appointment of Fidelity Investments procedures employed by the Manager, including its International as Investment Manager and Secretary, on internal audit function and the work carried out by the the terms agreed in the Management Agreement, is in Companys external Auditors, provide sufficient the interests of the shareholders and the Company.
assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys RESPONSIBILITY AS AN assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of The Audit Committee meets with the Managers Head Ownership in relation to the Companys investments.
of Internal Audit on an annual basis without other These principles include the pursuit of an active representatives from the Manager being present.
The investment policy through portfolio management Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings the Managers Head of Internal Audit and vice versa.
and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
In its Principles of INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT Ownership the Manager expressly declares that it An investment management agreement the supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the Management Agreement dated 17 and Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the 19 July 2002 was made between the Company and responsibilities of institutional shareholders and Fidelity Investments International Fidelity, under agents.
which Fidelity has agreed to provide investment management, administrative and secretarial services to The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the the Company for a fee of an amount equal to 0.26 per Company in accordance with the Managers existing cent per annum plus VAT of the Value of Funds under guidelines and policies.
Management as defined in the Management Agreement, which excludes investments in other funds GOING CONCERN managed by the Manager payable monthly and The Directors believe that the Company has adequate calculated as of the last day of the preceding calendar resources to continue in operational existence for the month to which it relates.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The Management Agreement will continue unless and financial statements.
until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than three months notice.
The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a Scott Dobbie result of a material breach of the agreement or on the Chairman 5 June 2006 insolvency, liquidation other than for the purpose of an amalgamation or reconstruction approved by the Board of Fidelity.
In addition, the Company may Page 22 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006
