Report on corporate governance continued All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Training is made available to directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills appropriate to both their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During the year under review the directors received regulatory and legal updates.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh and Mr Timothy David Melville-Ross will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-election of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh and Mr Tim Melville-Ross to shareholders.
A brief summary of their biographical details is set out on page 20.
All executive directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration during which they have notice periods of up to twelve months, and their terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, that they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Board performance evaluation During 2006, the Board completed a formal internal annual performance evaluation, using a questionnaire process designed to produce an objective assessment, which covered areas of board structure, board functionality, board objectives, board meetings, content of board meetings, board administration, management presentations and corporate governance.
The responses were reviewed and collated by the Chairman, audited by the Company Secretary, and discussed by the Board.
It was concluded that the Board was effective, recognises the right objectives and adds value to both shareholders and management.
Outputs included the further development of ongoing strategy, business environment and management succession discussions, more frequent presentations from regional operations, and positive focused reviews of various areas of the business.
Individual director performance evaluations were undertaken by the Chairman using a questionnaire and interview process which covered each directors commitment, contribution, development, decision making, and interpersonal skills, with the link being made to training and development.
All directors were shown as continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate the necessary commitment and time to their respective roles.
The Senior Independent Director, with support from the other non-executive directors and following discussion with the executive directors, conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman, and it was concluded that strong leadership was being provided and the Board was being run effectively.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
Following the appointment of Mr Tim Melville-Ross as Chairman in November 2005, the number of independent non-executive directors on each of the Committees was reduced to two for the period to 1 March 2006, when the number again increased to three following the appointment of a further independent non-executive director and increased to four with effect from 1 December 2006.
The Audit committee is chaired by Mr Mark Nicholls and, with effect from close of business on 10 March 2006, the Remuneration Committee has been chaired by Mr John Warren.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Tim Melville-Ross.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 29 to 36: the duties of the Audit Committee are set out in the Report on the activities of the Audit Committee on pages 27 and 28: and the duties of the Nomination Committee are set out in the Report on the activities of the Nomination Committee on page 28.
The Board completed a performance evaluation of its committees during 2006, and concluded that the committees were working and contributing effectively and achieving their respective remits.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which the full Board including all committee chairmen attend, and they are encouraged to exercise their right to vote, including by way of an electronic voting facility.
The Notice of meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and proxy voting is disclosed, including votes withheld.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate with questions and have the opportunity to talk informally with the directors and senior management following the meeting.
The Board maintains regular contact and dialogue with shareholders through a series of presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive, Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of final and interim results.
Feedback received during the year under review was positive and the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of interim and final results are made available on the Groups website www.
The Annual Report and Accounts, Preliminary Results, Interim Results, AGM voting, Corporate Social Responsibility report and other information are also available on the website.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are accessible to shareholders and maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders to understand their concerns.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors attended an investor presentation and analysts briefing held in November 2006 and the subsequent site visit.
Major shareholders attending had an opportunity to put their views and hold discussions with them.
