Report on corporate governance continued Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout 2006 in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risk register.
The Board regularly reviews this register to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities and operating environment of the business and at the end of 2006 a new risk analysis document was prepared for consideration by the Board and was reviewed by the Audit Committee.
In this way it is able to review the response to operational, financial, compliance and other risks and reconsider its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficiency of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these Annual Report and Accounts a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
This control environment is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull Guidance.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agendas dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating controls and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with controls, procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region reporting through its regional board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
26 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
