Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 3, the Chief Executives operational review on pages 6 to 11, the Financial review on pages 14 to 17, and in this directors report, all of which provides a full review of the Groups performance and prospects.
Information on the risks to which the performance of the business is subject is also provided.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and controls and mitigation processes put in place as explained in the report on corporate governance.
Key social, environmental and ethical risks are set out below.
Key financial performance indicators include pre tax profit, earnings per share, operating margin, return on capital employed, consented and strategic land bank, volume of legal completions and net assets.
Other key performance indicators are also monitored including those relating to health and safety, customer satisfaction and corporate social responsibility.
Results and dividends Profit after taxation amounted to 95.0 million 2005: 81.5 million.
An interim dividend of 10.0p 2005: 8.3p net per share was paid on 24 November 2006 and it is proposed to pay, subject to shareholders approval at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 20.0p 2005: 16.7p net per share on 25 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 March 2007.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2006 will be 30.0p 2005: 25.0p.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will again be offered to allow shareholders to elect to receive the whole or part of their dividend in new ordinary shares.
Directors Details of the directors are shown on page 20.
Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 29 to 36.
Mr Mark Patrick Nicholls will retire as a director at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday 11 May 2007 and, not seeking re-appointment, will cease to hold office with effect from the end of the Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, two directors, Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh and Mr Timothy David Melville-Ross will also retire at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves for re-appointment.
Mr Colin Peter Holmes, appointed on 1 December 2006, and Mr Neil Cooper, appointed on 2 January 2007, also offer themselves for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Substantial shareholdings At 9 March 2007, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: Ordinary shares of 50p each Number of % of issued shares held share capital Jupiter Asset Management 7,872,238 6.53 JPMorgan Chase 7,623,912 6.32 Legal & General Group 3,883,449 3.22 Employees The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where requirements may be adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity for career development equally and without discrimination.
Employees receive regular training in health, safety and environmental matters.
Information about the Groups performance and other matters is provided regularly by a news magazine, electronic and notice board bulletins and by consultations at staff meetings.
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, an Executive Share Option Scheme and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 19 to the accounts for details of the option schemes.
Corporate social responsibility The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing its commitment to sustainable development and transparent corporate conduct in social and ethical matters, corporate governance, health and safety and the environment.
The Group's corporate social responsibility policy commitments focus on sustainable development, the environment, health and safety, research and development, human resources, an ethical code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
The Group has a Sustainability Working Group, with approved terms of reference, to co-ordinate developments in this area and an established process of risk identification and management is embedded in all activities, whether risk is strategic, operational, financial, compliance, legal, environmental, social or related to reputation.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high health and safety and environmental standards expected from offices and sites.
22 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report of the directors continued The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, environmental, social and ethical matters through the inclusion of relevant information and data in Board reports and other documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Key social, environmental and ethical risks are considered to include the following: existing land contamination is not identified pre-acquisition: wildlife habitats and protected species are not identified resulting in planning difficulties: sustainable development is not addressed leading to planning delays and the loss of potential operational efficiencies and risk management opportunities: failure to design for social inclusion and for use of appropriate materials and resources and minimum waste: environmental pollution occurs on a construction site and is not swiftly controlled: failure to observe health and safety standards leading to injury: a significant environmental, health and safety, social or ethical event impacts reputation and brand.
These risks have specific controls placed against them, which include the completion of detailed investigations and surveys, policies and procedures to achieve sustainable development, an environmental management system and a clear commitment to maintaining high health and safety standards.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their management are included in the Groups free-standing Corporate Social Responsibility report dated 9 March 2007, which also includes key targets and performance data.
A copy of the report is available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Donations The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting to 4,000 2005: nil.
No political donations were made in either year by the Group or Company.
Suppliers The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
Creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the normal course of trade amounted to 27 days 2005: 30 days.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company was nil throughout 2005 and 2006.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2007 Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday 11 May 2007 is set out on pages 62 to 63.
Members wishing to vote should return the form of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
The Bovis Homes Group PLC Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme was established in 1997 and this year will be the last year in which the Scheme can be operated.
The Board has always considered that the Scheme has contributed to the motivation of employees and has encouraged their strong involvement with the performance of the Group.
The Board, therefore, proposes to introduce the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme with HMRC approval for use from 2008 and will be seeking shareholders approval to this at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Following a review of employee incentivisation, the Board proposes to introduce an employee share option plan for the benefit of middle management.
The Group previously operated an executive share option scheme, which will expire this year, although no grants have been made under that scheme since 2003.
It now wishes to introduce the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Share Option Plan with HMRC approval as it considers that options represent an effective incentivisation mechanism for middle management.
Executive directors of the Company will not participate.
Accordingly, shareholders approval to this will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
At a meeting on 9 March 2007, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
Auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 9 March 2007 Bovis Homes Group PLC 23 Report on corporate governance The Company continues its commitment to high standards of corporate governance and the Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on page 21 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This report sets out how the framework is applied and the Companys compliance with the 2003 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
"The Combined Code is supplemented by a publication entitled ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" the Turnbull Guidance to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8."
The Turnbull Guidance was revised by the Financial Reporting Council to take effect for financial periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
The Company has throughout 2006 applied the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below, with the exceptions that, following his appointment as non-executive Chairman in November 2005 Mr Tim Melville-Ross remained Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee until 10 March 2006.
Membership of these Committees included two, rather than three, independent directors until the appointment of Mr John Warren on 1 March 2006 code provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 and this increased to four independent directors with the appointment of Mr Colin Holmes on 1 December 2006.
With effect from close of business on 10 March 2006, Mr John Warren was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Mr Tim Melville-Ross resigned his membership of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee.
The Board The Board comprises Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Chairman, who was considered independent on appointment by the Board: three executive directors, Mr Malcolm Harris, Chief Executive, Mr David Ritchie, Group Managing Director and Mr Neil Cooper, Group Finance Director: and four independent non-executive directors, Mr Mark Nicholls, Senior Independent Director, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr John Warren and Mr Colin Holmes.
Mr Holmes was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2006 and Mr Cooper was appointed on 2 January 2007 following recommendations from the Nomination Committee and an evaluation of the knowledge, skills and experience that the appointments would bring to the Board in the light of the balance already available.
Comprehensive, tailored and formal inductions to the Company were provided shortly after appointment.
Mr Mark Nicholls, who has served as an independent non-executive director since 1997, will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the overall performance of the Group as dictated by the Boards strategy, including maintaining profit growth and developing strategic operating plans that reflect the objectives and priorities established by the Board.
The Board has determined that non-executive directors Mr Mark Nicholls, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr John Warren and Mr Colin Holmes are independent.
This includes an assessment of their independence in character and judgement and confirmation of their being free from any business or other relationship or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
Mr Mark Nicholls is the Senior Independent Director and his responsibilities are to lead the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman carried out by the non-executive directors, to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present when appropriate and to provide an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Board met six times during 2006 and all the directors, then current, attended all meetings, with the exception of Mr Mark Nicholls who attended five of six meetings, missing one by prior arrangement.
The Board receives timely, clear and comprehensive board papers a week in advance of each meeting and other information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in a way which allows open discussion and enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors also met during the year under review without the executive directors present.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes: responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group: approval of long term objectives, commercial strategy and annual budgets: oversight of the Groups operations and review of performance: changes to the Groups capital structure: financial reporting, approval of results, dividend policy and treasury policy: maintenance and review of the system of internal control and risk management: approval of major expenditure and transactions: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including new appointments: determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors: the introduction of new employee share plans and major changes to existing plans for shareholder approval: approval of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive: approval of the terms of reference of Board committees: annual review of its own performance and that of its Board committees: determining the independence of directors: review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
A management paper, subject to regular review, includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board to management and includes appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities.
24 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
