Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of have reservations on a resolution but do not wish to corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put vote against.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and in place a framework for corporate governance which it not counted in calculating the proportion of votes believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
for and against a resolution - historically we have included the option to abstain.
This will be AITC Code replaced with a withheld option, which, although The Board has considered the principles and no different in law to an abstention is perceived to recommendations of the Association of Investment allow a much stronger message to be given to the Companies AITC Code of Corporate Governance Company without voting against a resolution.
the AITC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate The publication of the proxy position on the Governance Guide the AITC Guide.
The AITC Code, Companys website - recommendation for companies as explained in the AITC Guide, addresses all the to publish on their website the proxy votes lodged principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code for a general meeting where votes are taken on a as well as setting out additional principles and show of hands this has been introduced for the recommendations on issues that are of specific 2007 AGM to comply with the AITC Code.
The Board considers that Provision of information solely on the Companys reporting against the principles and recommendations website certain information which should be of the AITC Code, and by reference to the AITC Guide publicly available may now be made available solely which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide on the Companys website the Company already better information to shareholders.
publishes information, for example the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and the The Board is accountable to the Companys Management Engagement Committee.
The terms shareholders for good governance and considers that and conditions of appointment of the Directors are the Company has complied with the recommendations not available on the website, but are available from of the AITC Code and therefore has met its obligations the registered office of the Company and prior to in relation to the Combined Code and associated the AGM.
No change is recommended at present.
disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board The Company has no separate Nomination & The Board of Directors has overall responsibility Remuneration Committee and in this respect does for the Companys affairs.
It delegates through not comply with the AITC Code.
The reasons for nonthe Management Agreement and through specific compliance are detailed below.
instructions the day to day management of the Company to the Manager, Fidelity Investments Combined Code as revised June 2006 International.
The Company has no executives or The Combined Code was revised in June 2006 and employees.
All matters not delegated to the Manager applies to companies with reporting years beginning are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved on or after 1 November 2006.
As there are very few for the Board include, inter alia, decisions on strategy, changes in the revised Combined Code, and these management, structure, capital, gearing, financial changes are yet to be captured by a revised Code from reporting, risk management, investment performance, the Association of Investment Companies, the changes share price discount, corporate governance, Board have been adopted early by the Company rather than appointments and the appointment of the Manager waiting to apply it until the Companys year ending 31 and the Company Secretary.
The Board currently consists of four non-executive The following are the key provisions:- Directors, three of whom are independent of the Companys Manager.
Mr Simon Fraser is an employee The Chairmans ability to sit on the Remuneration of the Manager and is therefore not independent.
Committee the Chairman is now permitted to sit The Board believes it to be an important aspect of the as a member of the Remuneration Committee where corporate governance of an investment trust company considered independent on his appointment as that the Manager should be represented on the Board Chairman although it is recommended that he does and be party to the responsibility, authority and not chair the Committee this does not apply to the accountability of the Board to the shareholders.
Details Company which has no separate Nomination and of the plans to refresh the Board are in the Chairmans Remuneration Committee.
The vote withheld box on the proxy form requirement to provide a vote withheld option on In considering the independence of the Chairman, who proxy forms to enable shareholders to indicate if they has served as a Director for more than fifteen years, the Page 24 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance Statement Board has taken note of the AITC Code and concluded Supply and agenda of information that lengthy service on a board does not of itself The Board receives in due time information in a form compromise independence, indeed his experience and and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its knowledge are of positive benefit to the Board.
The Board meeting papers are the key source of Nonetheless in the light of the provisions of the Code regular information for the Board, the contents of which Mr Robert Walther will be seeking annual re-election.
are determined by the Board and contain sufficient In common with most investment trusts there is no information on the financial condition of the Company.
Chief Executive as the management function has been Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board delegated as set out above and is supervised by the meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters Chairman and the Board.
of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The independent Directors form the membership of The Board has delegated its corporate governance the Audit Committee and the Management responsibilities to the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
Engagement Committees, each composed of all the independent Directors.
Senior independent director Mr Simpson was appointed Senior Independent Appointments to the Board Director on 28 February 2007.
The Company complies with the requirements of the AITC Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
Board balance Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new skills, experience, ages and length of service to provide Director will be discussed and approved by the whole effective strategic leadership and proper governance of Board.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination the Company.
In particular they have a wide knowledge Committee.
External consultants may be used to and experience of fund management, investment trust identify potential candidates.
management and business in Europe.
Biographical details of all the Directors are given on pages 14 and The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors 15 of this report.
are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be made available prior to the The Board meets formally at least fives times a year forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager.
Other meetings are arranged as Training necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and subUpon appointment, or shortly thereafter, each Director groups meet to pursue matters referred from the Board receives training on the investment operations and and the Chairman is in contact with the other Directors administration functions of the Company, together regularly without representatives of the Manager being with a summary of their duties and responsibilities.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business The Directors also receive regular briefings from, at all times with only the interests of the shareholders amongst others, the AIC, the Auditors and the Company in mind and quite independently of any other Secretary regarding any proposed developments or associations.
It endeavours to provide leadership in changes in law or regulations that affect the Company terms of the direction of the Company.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly Re-election to discharge its duties effectively and the table on page As required by company law, all newly appointed 28 gives the attendance record for the formal meetings Directors stand for election by the shareholders at held during the year.
the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
The Directors retire by The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
rotation and, in accordance with the Combined Code, The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter offer themselves for re-election by shareholders every for the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access three years.
Directors who have reached the age of 70, to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Directors who have served on the Board for more than through its appointed representative who is nine years and any Director who is employed by the responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Manager are subject to annual re-election.
A procedure procedures are followed and that applicable rules and has been put in place whereby formal letters of regulations are complied with.
Each of the Directors appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, of the Company is entitled to take independent are issued to new Directors on appointment and to professional advice, at the Companys expense, existing Directors as they retire and are subject to rein the furtherance of their duties.
election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board does Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement not believe that the period of time a person may serve as The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced a Director should be limited.
Where there are fewer than and understandable assessment of annual, interim, other three Directors to retire by rotation, pursuant to the price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, Companys Articles of Association, they shall all retire.
as well as to provide information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports The names of Directors submitted for re-election are are reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their accompanied by sufficient biographical details to enable issue to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
shareholders to make an informed decision.
Going concern Performance evaluation The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to A process for the evaluation of the Board, its adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Committees and its Directors has been put in place statements since the assets of the Company consist mainly and takes place regularly.
The process includes regular of securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, discussion and regular written questionnaires, although the Company has adequate financial resources to continue the format may change from time to time to ensure that in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the Board does not become complacent in fulfilling a The Company has a portfolio of investments which box-ticking exercise.
If appropriate, interviews are provides a level of cash receipts in the form of dividends: held.
The performance and contribution to the Company the Company has a portfolio of listed investments which of each Director holding office during the year to 31 are considered to be readily realisable if required: December 2006 have been considered and it has been expenses and liabilities are relatively stable: accounting concluded that in each case they have been effective revenue and expense forecasts are maintained and and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to reported to the Board regularly and the Auditors have their roles.
Accordingly their candidature has been reviewed the adoption of the going concern basis in the endorsed by the Board as a whole which commends preparation of the accounts and have reported that they their re-election to shareholders.
The performance of believe it to be appropriate.
Details of the forthcoming the Chairman is evaluated by the Board in the continuation vote may be found on page 22.
Chairmans absence on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary and Investment Manager also participate in Internal control part of these processes to provide all-round feedback The Board is responsible for the Companys system to the Board.
The results of these evaluations are of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The discussed by the Board and the process is considered Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for including the Manager, the management of the improving the functioning and performance of the Board.
investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration Directors remuneration services and the day to day accounting and company The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was Board, although Directors do not vote on their own fees, entered into after full and proper consideration by and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has the Board of the quality and cost of services offered not been appointed.
Since all Directors are non-executive, including the control systems in operation in so far the Company is not required to comply with the principles as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
of the Code in respect of executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are disclosed fully in the The Directors review the effectiveness of the Annual Report see the Directors Remuneration Report on Companys systems of internal control on a regular pages 30 and 31.
Levels of fees are considered to be basis.
The identification, control and evaluation of risks competitive and sufficient to attract and retain the identified covering financial, operational and compliance standard of Directors needed to manage the Company matters is formulated by a series of quarterly investment successfully.
The limit on aggregate fees is governed by performance reports, a semi-annual internal controls the Companys Articles of Association.
Shareholdings by report and quarterly compliance reports as provided Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests by the Manager.
This process is in accordance with the are disclosed on page 21 of the Directors Report.
FRCs Internal control: Revised Guidance of Directors on the Combined Code, and has been in place for ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT the year ended 31 December 2006.
Financial reporting Set out on page 23 is a statement by the Directors of The systems of internal controls are designed to manage their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the and reduce rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve annual report and financial statements.
The Auditors business objectives and can only provide reasonable, have set out their reporting responsibilities within the but not absolute, assurance against material misIndependent Auditors Report on page 32. statement or loss.
Page 26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives The Committee considers that collectively its members of the Manager and receives reports on the quality and have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience effectiveness of the accounting records and to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The Committees management information maintained on behalf of the authority and duties are clearly defined in its written Company.
It reviews the annual and interim accounts and terms of reference which are available on the the nature and scope and findings of the statutory audit.
These include responsibility for The Board carries out a risk and control assessment reviewing the interim report and annual report and including a review of the corporate strategy and the financial statements, reviewing the scope and results Managers and other third party suppliers risk of the audit and the effectiveness and cost of the management processes.
The key element of this audit process and reviewing the Companys internal assessment is the semi-annual internal controls report financial controls.
They also include responsibility for prepared by the Manager for its investment trust clients.
reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors The internal controls report sets out the Managers independence and objectivity with particular regard control policies and procedures with respect to the to the provision of non-audit services, taking into management of its clients investments.
Whilst the consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory Company, in common with most investment trusts, has requirements.
No work other than the audit was carried no internal audit department, the effectiveness of these out by the Companys Auditors during the year.
controls is monitored by the Managers internal audit The Audit Committee of the Board meets the Auditors function.
The Audit Committee receives and reviews at least once a year to review these and other appropriate the internal controls report on the effectiveness of the matters.
In the year to 31 December 2006 the Audit internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company Committee discharged its responsibilities by inter alia: and an annual compliance report from the Managers Global Oversight Director.
Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim financial statements prior to Board approval and By means of the procedures set out above, the Directors reviewing the external Auditors report on the annual have reviewed the effectiveness of the Managers internal financial statements: controls systems throughout the period.
Determining the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: The Board also receives each year from the Manager a Reviewing and recommending the audit fee and report on the Managers internal controls which includes reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the a report from the Managers reporting accountants on Companys external Auditors: the control procedures in operation around the investment Reviewing the external Auditors terms of management and administration processes.
By means engagement: of the procedures set out above and in accordance with Evaluating the external Auditors plan for the the FRCs internal control guidance, the Directors have audit of the Companys financial statements: established an ongoing process for identifying, Reviewing the external Auditors quality control evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by procedures: the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Assessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal controls systems throughout the year.
external audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity: Whistle-blowing procedure Considering the scope of work undertaken Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a by the Managers internal audit department: good service pursuant to the Management Agreement Reviewing a semi-annual report on risk and includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise internal controls and reporting to the Board: concerns through a workplace concerns escalation Considering and reconfirming that it does not policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity is need an internal audit function given that the committed to providing the highest level of service to Company delegates its day to day operations its customers and to applying the highest standards of to third parties: and quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the Recommending the appointment or re-appointment policy is to encourage employees and others working of external Auditors.
for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation The Committee also reviews corporate governance and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy issues, the existence and performance of all controls is endorsed accordingly.
operating in the Company including the adherence to Section 842 status, the relationship with and the Audit Committee and Auditors performance of third party service providers such as The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent the registrars and custodians.
Directors and is chaired by Mr David Simpson.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 27 Corporate Governance Statement Management Engagement Committee The Committee met on 18 January 2007 and reviewed The Management Engagement Committee consists of the performance of the Manager for the year to 31 all of the independent Directors and is chaired by Mr December 2006.
The Committee noted the Companys Robert Walther.
The Committee is charged with reviewing good performance record and the commitment, quality and monitoring the performance of the Manager and and continuity of the team which was responsible for the ensuring that the terms of the Companys Management Company.
The Committee concluded that it was in the Agreement are competitive and reasonable for interests of shareholders that the appointment of the shareholders.
This Committee meets annually and reports Manager should continue.
Details of the Management to the Board of Directors, making recommendations where Agreement appear on pages 19 and 20. appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference may be found on the Companys website.
Responsibility as institutional shareholder The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles the Management Engagement Committee: it relates to include the pursuit of an active investment policy the investment management function, on which a through portfolio management decisions, voting on percentage of the funds under management is paid, and resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a to the administrative function.
The management fee is continuing dialogue with the management of investee currently being renegotiated to include a performance companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, related element.
Details will be announced shortly and expressly declares that it supports the Statement of will take effect from 1 January 2007.
Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the responsibilities of institutional The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing shareholders and agents.
the performance of the Manager are set out below: Relations with shareholders Quality of team the skills and particularly the The shareholder profile of the Company is regularly experience of the team involved in managing all monitored and the Board liaises with the Manager and aspects of the Companys business: the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust and communicate views to shareholders.
The Company business generally and to the Company in particular: is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for Managing the Company in running and controlling dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
the administration, the accounting and the It is believed that institutional shareholders have proper secretaryship of the Company: access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if Investment management portfolio management they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a skills, experience and track record and other member of the Board directly they should contact the investment related considerations including gearing, Company Secretary whose details are given on pages currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: 14 and 56.
All shareholders, particularly individual Shareholders shareholder consciousness and shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual relations, discount management and commitment to General Meeting at which there is a presentation of the the Companys goals: and past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, Management Agreement consideration of fees, followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and notice periods and duties.
Regular Board Audit Committee Management Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Robert Walther 5 5 1 2 1 1 David Simpson 5 5 2 2 1 1 Johan Bjrkman 4 5 2 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Simon Duckworth 5 5 2 2 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Deceased 12 February 2007 Page 28 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance Statement At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxy votes are disclosed on the Companys website.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 53 and 54 sets out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report on pages 21 and 22.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
On behalf of the Board Robert Walther 1 March 2007 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 29
