Corporate Governance Introduction the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting The Board has considered the principles set out asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and thus issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July supervises the management of the investment portfolio 2003 the Combined Code and the AIC Code of which is contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Corporate Governance the AIC Code revised in Board has the right of veto over the appointment of February 2006.
The Board believes that during the sub-managers recommended by the Fund Manager.
period under review the Company has complied with The Board has responsibility for the approval of private the provisions of the Combined Code, in so far as equity and unlisted investments and all investments in they relate to the Companys business.
The Board is in-house funds managed or advised by the Manager.
also adhering to the principles and recommendations Strategic issues, as highlighted on page 16, are reviewed of the AIC Code, save that the Company now regularly.
publishes quarterly the full list of its investments The overall attendance rate of Directors at on its website instead of in the Annual Report and Board meetings in 2006 was over 97%, and all the Accounts and copies are also available on request Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
The portfolio comprised over following table sets out the number of Directors 700 investments as at 31 December 2006, and it meetings including committee meetings held and is not considered meaningful to continue to publish attended during the year under review.
The Board this lengthy and continually changing information held an Away-Day meeting in November 2006 to within the Annual Report and Accounts.
The twenty consider strategic issues and also met in closed largest investments are disclosed on page 13 and session on three occasions during the year, without the ten largest investments in each of the regional any representation from the Manager.
sub-portfolios are disclosed in the Fund Directors attendance Managers review.
Service Private Providers and Audit Nomination Equity Marketing Board Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board The Board is responsible for the effective No.
of meetings 10 4 2 6 4 stewardship of the Companys affairs M A Loveday 10 n a 2 n a n a and has reviewed the schedule of M W Bunbury 10 3 n a 6 n a matters reserved for its decision, which K H Clarke 10 n a 2 n a n a are categorised under various headings, R J Gould 10 n a n a n a 4 1 including strategy, policy, finance, risk, C A Keljik 9 2 n a n a 4 2 investment restrictions, performance, E C S Macpherson 10 2 2 6 n a 3 appointments, the Board and public J L Rennocks 9 4 n a 2 n a 4 documents.
It has responsibility for all M C B Ward 9 n a n a 5 n a A M Wood 10 n a n a n a 4 corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, 1 Joined Audit Committee on 19 May 2006 share buy-back policy and corporate 2 Retired from Audit Committee on 19 May 2006 governance matters.
In order to enable 3 Joined Private Equity Committee on 19 May 2006 them to discharge their responsibilities, 4 Joined Nomination Committee on 1 January 2007 all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting the Board The Board believes that it has a reasonable balance reviews the Companys investment performance and of skills, experience, ages and length of service, but considers financial analysis and other reports of an is looking to bring in new Directors over the next two operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with years as Directors retire.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise Investors in New Zealand should note that the corporate governance rules the independence or contribution of directors of an and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ materially from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance investment trust company, where continuity and Best Practice Code.
30 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC experience can add significantly to the strength of a the Company Secretary in accordance with the terms of board.
Nevertheless, a nine year limit is imposed on the the Management Agreement.
appointment of new Directors, which may be exceeded for phasing and continuity purposes or in exceptional Independence of Directors circumstances.
In order to review the effectiveness of The Board, which is composed solely of independent the Board, the Committees and the individual Directors, non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the the Chairman carried out a thorough appraisal process independence of its members.
All the Directors, with in December 2006 in respect of the year under review.
particular focus on those who have served for over This encompassed both quantitative and qualitative nine years and are standing for annual re-election, measures of performance in respect of the Board have been assessed by the Nomination Committee and the Committees implemented by way of an as remaining independent of the Manager and of evaluation survey, a questionnaire and interviews with the Company itself: none has a past or current the Chairman.
The Fund Manager and the Company connection with the Manager and each remains Secretary also participated in this part of the process independent in character and judgement with to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
With regard no relationships or circumstances relating to the to individual Directors, the performance appraisal was Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
qualitative, implemented by way of a questionnaire The Nomination Committees assessments of and an appraisal meeting with the Chairman.
The Director independence have been endorsed by the appraisal of the Chairman follows the same process Board, which is prepared to have a minority of nonand is carried out by the Board as a whole under the independent Directors should this be considered leadership of the Senior Independent Director, in the appropriate at any stage.
The appraisal process is There is no chief executive position within the considered by the Board to be constructive in terms Company, as day-to-day management of the of identifying areas for improving the functioning and Companys affairs has been delegated to the Manager.
performance of the Board and the Committees and the contribution of individual Directors, building on Board Committees and developing individual and collective strengths, The Board has appointed a number of committees as well as setting priorities for the following year.
Copies of the terms of reference Board has considered the option of using external of each committee are available on request and appraisal consultants and, whilst it believes that this can also be found on the Companys website at is unlikely to provide any meaningful advantage over www.
Membership is listed the internal process that has been adopted, it could on page 26 and attendance at meetings on page 30. nevertheless provide an independent perspective if used on an occasional basis.
This will be given further Nomination Committee consideration in 2007.
The primary role of the Nomination Committee is The Board has established a procedure whereby to review and make recommendations with regard Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their to Board structure, size and composition, the duties, may take independent professional advice at balance of knowledge, experience, skill range and the Companys expense.
The Board has direct access age profile and consider succession planning and to company secretarial advice and services of the tenure policy.
It also considers the criteria for future Manager which, through its nominated representative, Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, is responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee selection, appointment and induction.
The Committee procedures are followed, and that applicable regulations considers and makes recommendations to the Board are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and with regard to the appointment of new Directors, other meetings are fully recorded through a process that committee membership, the re-appointment of those allows any concerns of Directors to be recorded in the Directors standing for re-election at annual general minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint or remove meetings, variations in terms of appointment and the Report and Accounts 2006 3 Corporate Governance continued question of each Directors independence prior to Limited Pantheon and to make recommendations publication of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The to the Board regarding further investments.
These Committee also reviews the attendance and time responsibilities have been carried out in respect commitment of the Directors in fulfilling their duties, of the period under review.
With effect from including their other directorships.
1 January 2007, the Fund Manager has day to day The composition of the Board remained responsibility for private equity, including the making of unchanged during the year, but active consideration recommendations for further investments and reports is being given to the appointment of new Directors to the Committee.
Sir Michael Bunbury represents the in conjunction with the planned retirements of Companys interests on the advisory committees of Kenneth Clarke and Sir Andrew Wood immediately HarbourVest and Pantheon.
No remuneration is paid following the forthcoming AGM, and the intention by these managers to Sir Michael Bunbury.
that Ewen Macpherson and John Rennocks will also retire in 2008.
The Committee met in January 2007 Service Providers and Marketing Committee to consider the appointment of a search agency for The Service Providers and Marketing Committee was the purpose of seeking one or more replacement formed in March 2006, taking on certain responsibilities non-executive Directors, the recruitment and selection previously carried out by the, then named, Audit and process for which is ongoing.
The final decision with Management Engagement Committee and additional regard to appointments always rests with the Board responsibilities arising from the outsourcing of certain and all such appointments are subject to confirmation regional portfolios in 2005.
The function of the by shareholders.
Committee is to review and monitor the Companys An induction process has been prepared for new service providers, and the fees charged in respect appointees to the Board, which involves a full briefing of those services.
This includes the Manager and, by the Chairman, the Fund Manager, Company in conjunction with the Manager, the Committee Secretary and by other appropriate persons within reviews and monitors the services of their outsourcing F&C.
This covers the role of the Board, the Companys adviser for the North America portfolio, Investment objective, policy and strategy, management Management Selection Limited, and the regional arrangements, its workings and processes, sub-managers.
Coverage extends to the Companys investment process and philosophy, measurement marketing, stock lending and custodian arrangements, of performance and risk, marketing objectives and the management of the savings schemes, as well an overview of the Managers investment resources as the review of share registration, trade marks and and services.
New appointees are also issued with a intellectual property rights.
All of the Committees Company manual and other key documentation.
responsibilities have been carried out during the course of 2006 and in January 2007.
Remuneration Committee As the Board has no executive Directors and Audit Committee no employees, and is composed solely of nonThe primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee executives, it does not have a Remuneration are to monitor the integrity of the financial statements Committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration of the Company and any formal announcements arrangements for the Directors of the Company can relating to the Companys financial performance: to be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on review the Companys internal financial controls and pages 28 and 29 and in note 6 on the accounts.
the internal control and risk management systems applicable to the Company: to review annually the Private Equity Committee need for the Company to have its own internal audit The function of the Private Equity Committee is to function: to make recommendations to the Board monitor and assess the performance of the Companys in relation to the re-appointment of the Auditors private equity investments managed by HarbourVest and to approve their remuneration and terms of Partners LLC HarbourVest and Pantheon Ventures engagement: to review and monitor the Auditors 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC independence and objectivity and the effectiveness referred to under Internal Controls and management of the audit process: and to develop and implement of risk below and an annual compliance report from policy on the engagement of the Auditors to supply the Managers head of Audit, Risk and Compliance.
It also reviews Directors and The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is Officers liability insurance.
satisfied with, the whistleblowing policy that has The Audit Committee has direct access to the been put in place by the Manager under which Auditors,  LLP, and to its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about the internal audit, risk and compliance director of possible improprieties in financial reporting or other the Manager, and to the Managers group audit matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
The for proportionate and independent investigation of Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
relating to the annual and interim accounts and other significant published financial information.
Internal controls and management of risk All of the Audit Committees responsibilities have The Board has overall responsibility for the been carried out at its meetings held over the course of Companys systems of internal controls and for 2006 and in February 2007.
A meeting has been held reviewing their effectiveness.
These aim to ensure with the Auditors to review the work carried out for the that assets of the Company are safeguarded, audit of the annual financial statements.
The Auditors proper accounting records are maintained, and also attend each Audit Committee meeting and, on the financial information used within the business the basis of these meetings, the Audit Committee has and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks been able to assess the effectiveness of the external identified, covering financial, operational, reputational, audit.
In completing this review, the Audit Committee compliance and risk management, is embedded in has taken into account the standing, experience and the controls of the Company by a series of monthly tenure of the audit partner and his team, the nature investment performance and attribution statements, and level of services provided, and confirmation that financial and risk analysis and Managers reports, and they have complied with the relevant UK independence a quarterly control report.
The Manager and the Company use risks are set out on pages 16 and 17.
The control different audit firms.
The Audit Committee has report incorporates a key risk table that identifies also reviewed the provision of non-audit services the risks to which the Company is exposed and and considers them to be cost effective and not to the controls in place to mitigate them, and includes compromise the independence of the Auditors.
The those risks that are not directly the responsibility non-audit services include taxation matters and the of the Manager and details of any known internal review of the interim results.
The Chairman of the Audit control concerns.
The systems of internal controls Committee is advised of non-audit work required and a are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of decision to authorise is taken on a case by case basis.
failure to achieve business objectives, and can only The cost, which for 2006 was 29,000 and is found in provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance note 5 on the accounts, is not of a material nature.
against material misstatement or loss.
Following a recommendation from the Audit The Board has carried out a risk and control Committee, the Board has concluded that there is assessment, including a review of the Managers no current need for the Company to have an internal risk management infrastructure and the Report on audit function: all of the Companys management policies and procedures in operation and tests for functions, including day to day responsibility for the period 1 January to 31 December 2006 the private equity investments from 1 January 2007, are Report that has been prepared by the Manager delegated to the Manager, which has its own Internal for its investment trust clients to the standards of the Audit, Risk and Compliance department, and whose Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and controls are monitored by the Board.
The Audit Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06.
Containing Committee has received and reviewed the Report a report from independent external accountants, Report and Accounts 2006 33 Corporate Governance continued the Report sets out the Managers control policies owning 7% of the share capital took the opportunity and procedures with respect to the management of to do so.
These annual meetings have proved its clients investments.
The effectiveness of these constructive in providing a two-way forum for the controls is monitored by the Managers group audit canvassing of shareholder views, gauging opinion, committee which receives regular reports from the and for enabling the Board to become aware of Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance Department any issues or concerns.
The programme will be and ensures that action would be taken to remedy continued in 2007, led by the Fund Manager.
any significant failings or weakness identified from At annual general meetings, all investors have the this monitoring.
The Companys Audit Committee opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and will continue to work with the Managers Audit, Risk the Fund Manager.
and Compliance Department to enhance controls as All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings they affect the Company.
As reported above under plans have the opportunity to vote using a form of Audit Committee, the Board has concluded that direction and, in accordance with the Articles of there is no current need for the Company to have its Association, have the right to attend, speak and vote own internal audit function, but will keep this matter at all meetings.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any Investment Management other member of the Board may do so by writing The Board has contractually delegated the to the Company, for the attention of the Secretary management of the investment portfolio to the at the address set out on page 27 or by emailing to Manager giving the Manager responsibility for FCITCoSec@fandc.
gearing, asset allocation and sector and stock The Board monitors investor complaint levels and selection, together with the overall risk management will keep under review the Managers arrangements of the Companys assets, within the limits set and for Treating Customers Fairly.
regularly reviewed and monitored by the Board.
The Board has reviewed and endorsed the Managers approach to environmental, social and governance issues and voting policy which is explained under Responsible ownership on page 18, and receives periodic reports on its implementation.
Relations with shareholders Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In addition to the annual and interim report and accounts that are distributed to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and general information are available on the Companys website at www.
A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys institutional shareholders and private client asset managers.
As in previous years, the Chairman wrote to the top institutional shareholders and to the private client asset managers, as a result of which meetings were held with nine of these shareholders.
In total, shareholders representing 40% of the share capital were invited to meet or talk with the Chairman and the Fund Manager and those 34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
