qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Governance Report and Committee Reports The Board accepts the Nomination Committees assessment and The Board considers all six non-executive directors which expression The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or excludes the Chairman to be independent in character and through the operation of committees of directors and delegated judgment and is not aware of any relationships or circumstances authority, brings an independent judgment on all issues of strategy, which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgment performance, resources including key appointments and standards of any of them.
Christopher Jemmett and Lord MacGregor are of conduct.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, which it then both now aged 70 and in accordance with the Companys policy implements through its approval and regular monitoring of a will retire at the 2007 AGM.
Notwithstanding Lady Judge was first business plan and budget prepared by the executive directors.
The elected to the Board of Friends Provident Life Office in May 1994 business plan specifies key developments towards the strategic and to the Board of the Company in June 2001, the Board is objectives that are to be achieved by management within an agreed entirely satisfied that Lady Judge is independent in character and budget.
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, judgment, that there are no relationships or circumstances that are ensures that the directors receive timely and clear information on all likely to affect, or could appear to affect, her judgment.
At board meetings, directors receive reports from finance, risk management and each of the key business areas.
The Her other roles as Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Board, supplied with information that is both timely and appropriate, Council and Chairman of the Professional Standards Advisory deals with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, and Board of the Institute of Directors inform her contributions to takes all material decisions affecting the Group.
These include Board debates on governance issues and complement her role as acquisitions, sales, capital structure, financing, the establishment of the senior independent director.
board committees and their terms of reference, and the oversight The Board is satisfied that, as a non-executive director seeking reand review of the operation and achievement of the Groups election, Lady Judge continues to perform effectively and activities.
During 2006, it has been the practice for non-executive demonstrates commitment to her role, including commitment of directors to have a private session after each board meeting without time for Board and committee meetings and her other duties.
the executive directors being present.
The boards of F&C and the UK and international insurance subsidiaries also meet separately and The Nomination Committee worked closely with the Board in order regularly to monitor and direct the operations of those businesses to ensure that the independent executive directors have the and report, on a timely basis, through the respective chief appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the executives, to their immediate controlling companies.
activities of the Board and to help the Group continue to compete effectively in the market place.
During 2006, the Nomination Board membership, attendance and balance Committee devoted considerable time to succession planning The current membership of the Board and the significant which resulted in a number of changes to the Board.
Details of the commitments of the directors are stated on pages 44 and 45. process followed are contained in the report of the Nomination The names of the chairman and members of each of the Audit Committee on page 58.
The non-executive directors have a wide and Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are range of experience and the Board is able to lead and give stated in the reports of those committees.
direction to the Group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its decision taking.
During 2006, the Board met on 10 occasions, and directors also Any director having a concern in this or any other regard may raise attended an off-site strategy meeting.
The total number of it with the Chairman or the senior independent director.
meetings including Board committees and the attendance of directors at these meetings are shown as follows: All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures that Board processes and leading Total number of meetings B A&C N R I corporate governance practice are followed.
There is also an see key below 10 7 10 8 4 established procedure whereby individual directors who consider it Sir Adrian Montague Chairman 10 9 4 necessary in furtherance of their duties, may take independent, Lady Judge professional advice at the Companys expense.
Deputy Chairman, and senior independent director 10 984 Alison Carnwath Non-executive director 10 6 8 Christopher Jemmett Non-executive director 10 7 8 4 Ray King Non-executive director 97 4 Sir Mervyn Pedelty Non-executive director 3 1 Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market Non-executive director 10 7 10 Keith Satchell Group Chief Executive 10 4 Ben Gunn Chief Executive FPLP 10 Philip Moore Group Finance Director 10 4 Alain Grisay Chief Executive F&C 10 4 appointed on 1 October 2006 KEY: B Board A&C Audit and Compliance Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee I Investment Committee 50 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 30 3 07 00:24 Page 51 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Information and communication Committees of the Board The Board regularly reviews strategy and members of executive All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements management also participate in an annual strategic review that of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director and considers overall business direction and its financial implications.
exclusively comprise, or, in the case of the Nomination Committee Individual business units prepare annual budgets and business where the Chairman of the Board is a member, have a majority plans that provide a basis against which actual results can be of, independent directors.
The Board committees are constituted benchmarked.
Assets, liabilities, investments and other relevant with appropriate written terms of reference that are reviewed criteria are also monitored.
Progress against plans is actively annually and minutes of the Board committees are circulated to monitored and supported by regular forecasts, which, together the Board.
Reports on the activities of the Audit and Compliance, with actual results, are consolidated and presented to the Board Nomination and Remuneration Committees are included on pages for discussion on a timely basis.
Details of other significant committees reporting to the boards of the Company or the Life and Pensions subsidiaries are: Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance is continually monitored, risks are identified in a timely manner, their Investment Committee financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated Sir Adrian Montague Chairman, Philip Moore, Keith Satchell until and, where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and 31 December 2006, Jim Smart from 1 January 2007, Alain implemented.
Grisay, Christopher Jemmett, Lady Judge, Ray King and Sir Mervyn Pedelty from 1 October 2006.
Performance and continual professional development Group Asset Liability Committee The Boards formal annual evaluation of its own performance, of This was established during 2006 and reports to the Investment its committees and individual directors was carried out in 2006 by Committee.
It comprises the executive directors of the Company, each director completing a questionnaire prepared internally, and together with senior managers from the Life and Pensions and a self-assessment of his or her performance.
Completed Asset Management businesses, and supervises the application of questionnaires were sent in confidence to the Chairman who also agreed risk appetite in respect of asset liability matching for both conducted individual meetings with directors.
The Chairman shareholder and policyholder funds.
It also reviews the investment reported to the October Board meeting comments and issues of, and monitors market, liquidity and credit risk management in raised by directors during this process.
The Board has again relation to, shareholder funds and makes recommendations to the confirmed that it will keep this process under review to ensure Investment Committee in respect of policy on foreign exchange that analyses of the outcome of this evaluation will give the Board, and interest rate hedging.
the Chairman and the Nomination Committee in particular, the information they need to continue to fulfil the intentions underlying Group Risk Committee the requirements of the Combined Code during 2007.
Keith Satchell until 31 December 2006, Philip Moore, Ben Gunn, Alain Grisay and Jim Smart with effect from 1 January 2007.
After the Board meeting in December, the senior independent Details of the activities of the Committee are set out on page 54. director met with the independent directors other than the Chairman to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
It was With-Profits Committees WPCs of the Life and Pensions agreed that the Chairman had continued to perform effectively operating companies throughout the year and provided strong leadership to the Group.
While these committees are committees of the boards of the Life and Pensions operating companies and not the Company, the Throughout 2006, the Board received presentations from various Board of the Company appoints the chairman of the WPCs from business units and two Board meetings each year are held at the amongst the independent directors of the Company.
Alison offices of subsidiary companies in order to gain better insight of Carnwath has fulfilled that role since 1 April 2004.
An overview of business activities and operations of the Group at that location.
the work of the WPCs is set out on page 59.
Directors also individually attend internal briefings on specific technical topics and external seminars to keep up-to-date with regulations and best practice affecting the Groups core businesses and report on these to the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
There is a full induction process in place for new directors that recognises the complexities of the Life and Pensions and Asset Management businesses and aims to enable directors to make a full contribution to Board discussions within an optimum time-frame.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 51 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Reporting to shareholders Internal controls and risk management The Company places considerable importance on communications The Group has in place an ongoing process for identifying, with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of evaluating and managing the significant risks it faces.
It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings regularly reviews the process through the risk committee structure with major institutional shareholders, where a wide range of and confirms that it complies with the Internal Control: Revised relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and Guidance for Directors On The Combined Code published by the governance are discussed.
Further, the Chairman and the senior Financial Reporting Council and the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on independent director are available to meet major shareholders and Socially Responsible Investment, which focus on social, ethical the Chairman writes annually to the 20 largest shareholders, and environmental SEE risks.
emphasising his availability should they wish to meet with him.
The Board of the Company is ultimately responsible for the During 2006, no such meetings with the Chairman were requested Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their by shareholders.
Twice during the year, the Chairman and the effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than directors met with the Companys joint brokers, JPMorgan eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as no Cazenove and Merrill Lynch, following completion of the executive business can be successful without taking some risk.
They can presentations to major shareholders.
This helps the non-executive thus provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against directors to maintain an up-to-date understanding of the views of material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness At its AGM, the Company complies with the provisions of the of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management.
Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the The Companys Audit and Compliance Committee has also separation of resolutions and the attendance of directors, received: particularly committee chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of the formal notice of the AGM complies with the Combined Code.
a review of the operation of the Groups risk management The outcome of every general meeting of shareholders, including framework from the Groups risk management function: detailed voting results and votes withheld, is published on the a report from the Groups independent internal audit function Companys website following the close of the meeting.
of the frameworks effectiveness: and assurances from the Group Risk Committee that the risk Institutional investors committees within the operating subsidiaries have reviewed As an institutional investor, the Company aims to exercise wise the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management stewardship over the companies in which it invests.
The activities within their respective remits.
Companys approach to socially responsible investments has been These reports commented on the controls that had operated enhanced by the Responsible Engagement Overlay reo during the year under review and where any significant failings or developed by the Companys fund manager, F&C, which complies weaknesses were identified, actions have been taken or are being with the principles set out in the Institutional Shareholders taken to remedy them.
Through this process, the Audit and Committees Code of Activism, including comprehensive and Compliance Committee was able to recommend to the Board the considered voting and dialogue, where appropriate, with investee approval of the statements concerning internal controls and risk companies.
The Companys policy on socially responsible management statements.
investment can be found on the corporate website www.
com sri, which also includes the voting reports, voting policy and latest newsletter.
52 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 53 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Operational risks can arise in the Groups internal processes and Risk management systems, through its people or from external events.
The Board The Group seeks to take appropriate and managed risks in order aims to build an appropriate control environment to keep the to make superior returns for its shareholders and customers.
The exposure to operational risks in line with the agreed risk appetite, Boards vision for risk management is an environment where recognising that operational risks may arise in the normal course business managers can take risks with confidence, and where of business even when carried out in line with the Groups policies consideration of risk is embedded into business planning, and applicable regulation.
It seeks to have in place the people, processes and systems to: Risk processes identify and understand the risks facing the business: Operational risk is identified and evaluated within business units select the appropriate risks to accept, and price correctly for using a risk and control self-assessment process.
Risks are them: recorded on an operational risk database, along with details of the avoid, mitigate or transfer the inappropriate risks: and controls in place to manage the risks and any remedial actions monitor the businesss risk profile against agreed risk appetite.
necessary to improve those controls.
Risks are managed as closely as possible to the source of the risk.
Risk appetite The strategic and financial risk processes are aligned to the Risk appetite is an expression of the level of acceptable and or business planning process, with risk being identified and evaluated unacceptable risk and is determined by the Board and senior in relation to the achievement of business objectives.
The Groups willingness to take on risk is set with processes are run centrally by the Group Risk function in coreference to its capacity to bear risk.
The Board has set risk operation with key business units.
Risks within business change appetite for the Group as a whole, and has approved more detailed activities are identified and evaluated by the management of the appetite statements for the individual businesses.
Qualitatively, change programme both in relation to the delivery of the risk appetite is set within a range from risk seeking to zero programme and in terms of the change programmes effect on tolerance, which varies according to the type of risk.
Risk categorisation Specific risk identification and assessment methodologies have Risks are categorised as strategic, financial or operational.
Details of been developed for merger and acquisition and strategic specific risks currently facing the Group in the achievement of its investment opportunities, new product developments and general strategy are given in the Annual Review on pages 15, 21 and 27. project and change management programmes.
Strategic risks are those arising from the choice of a particular The risk governance and management structures described below strategy, or with external forces acting to impair the Groups ability to apply to all the risks facing the Group, including those that arise realise its strategy.
The Boards appetite for strategic risk varies from from social, environmental and ethical matters.
More information risk seeking, for example in relation to finding and exploiting new about the Groups performance in relation to these matters can be applications of technology, to risk averse, for example in relation to found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 40 actions or events that could damage the Groups reputation.
Financial risks arise from changes in financial risk factors and include credit, insurance, liquidity and market risks.
The Boards appetite for the different categories of financial risks can vary by risk type, by company within the Group and by the funds or assets concerned.
More details of financial risk appetite are included in note 30 to the consolidated accounts.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 53 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT A second line of defence is provided by the independent Group Governance Risk function, and those specialist functions that undertake policyOperational responsibility within the Group ultimately rests with setting and monitoring roles, such as Compliance and Legal.
the Group Chief Executive and is devolved through an executive The third line of defence is provided by Internal Audit, which has structure with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
responsibility for providing independent assurance over the risk In particular, the Chief Executive of F&C has operational management process and the internal controls environment.
responsibility to the Board of F&C and its shareholders, reporting appropriately to the Board of the Company as controlling The diagram below illustrates the governance structure for risk shareholder.
Members of Group management are, therefore, management including the interaction of various committees with accountable for the operation of the systems of internal control the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries.
within the Groups core businesses.
The boards and the risk committees within the Group have Business unit management is responsible for putting in place the terms of reference that describe their roles in the identification, ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks and assessment, management and monitoring of risk.
The structure is designed to provide The Board: clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups is responsible for the risk management framework and for business, and includes whistleblowing procedures to enable staff setting high level risk policy and risk appetite: to raise concerns in confidence.
Through these mechanisms, the has delegated to the Group Risk Committee authority to performance of the business is monitored, risks are identified in a approve the risk framework of the UK Life & Pensions business timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control and to endorse the risk frameworks of the other operating procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective actions subsidiaries: and agreed and implemented.
receives quarterly reports from the Group Risk function The Groups governance structures for risk management are based summarising the Groups key risks and the actions in place to on three lines of defence.
Primary accountability for managing risk control them, and a brief monthly update on the key risks and lies with the business units, and with those specialist functions issues as part of its regular management information.
that are responsible for specific operational processes, such as Human Resources, IT and Facilities Management.
Governance structures for risk management FP plc Board Risk information flows Board Committee FP plc Audit & Compliance Committee Risk function Business Group Risk Committee FPLP Board FPIL Board Lombard Board F&C Board Financial Risk Operational FPIL Risk Lombard Risk F&C Management Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee FPIL Risk Lombard Risk F&C Risk function coordinator coordinator Lombard FPLP Business units FPIL Business units F&C Business units Business units 54 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Group Risk Function 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 55 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The Group Risk Committee: Independence of external auditors is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and is responsible for The Combined Code requires the Company to explain the process developing, sponsoring and monitoring the risk management to ensure that auditors objectivity and independence is activities and processes of the companies within the Group: safeguarded in their provision of non-audit services to the Company.
has authority to approve policies for the management of The Audit and Compliance Committee evaluated the independence strategic and reputational risks and for those risks that arise of the external auditor and satisfied itself of its integrity, from membership of a group of companies called enterprise competence and professionalism.
Having given full consideration risks : to the Committees evaluation, the Board has satisfied itself that approves the risk management frameworks of the Groups UK during the year, no aspect of the work of the independent auditor Life & Pensions business: and was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception receives quarterly reporting from the operating subsidiaries, of independence and balancing that with the best interests of the summarised by the Group Risk function.
Company, the Board has also considered the policy for awarding audit-related and or non-audit work to the Groups external auditor.
Within the UK Life & Pensions business, the boards of the principal The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Group operating companies: companys external auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The oversee the management of strategic risk: Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work carried out in a have established a Financial Risk Committee and an Operational manner that affords best value for money.
The auditor must not be Risk Committee, which include executive directors and other in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must relevant senior managers: and have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in receive a quarterly summary of operational and financial risk and the best interests of the Company and the Group.
a detailed report of strategic risk from the Group Risk function.
In particular, the external auditor is not permitted to: The Financial Risk and Operational Risk Committees: perform work that involves the valuation of an asset or liability receive detailed quarterly reporting from the Group Risk incorporated into any of the Companys financial statements: function in respect of the significant risks within their respective act as secondees to positions of influence within the Group: remits, together with details of activities to improve the control design and implement systems that have financial implications: environment where necessary: provide internal audit services where an opinion has to be given oversee the implementation of detailed risk appetite for the on managements assessment of accounting controls and risks within their respective remits: and financial systems: have delegated authority to approve the policies for, and provide litigation support services: oversee the management of, financial and operational risk provide corporate finance services: and respectively.
advise on senior executives remuneration.
The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform audit-related and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit and Within the International business, FPIL and Lombard have risk Compliance Committee or its Chairman, it is appropriate for it to committees comprising executive directors and other relevant do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
senior managers that oversee their risk management processes and report into their respective boards.
These committees provide The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee is quarterly reports to the Group Risk function.
The boards of FPIL authorised to approve the use of auditors for audit-related and nonand Lombard are authorised to determine their respective policies audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 100,000 and for the management of risk, subject to the oversight of the Group the aggregate value of audit-related and non-audit work awarded Risk Committee.
to auditors does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit and The board of F&C determines its policy for the management of Compliance Committee is required.
risk and, in conjunction with management, identifies the major risks in the Asset Management business and reviews and agrees procedures to control these risks, where possible.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each of the F&C business units, across all locations.
The F&C Management Committee, which includes all executive directors of F&C, discusses these reports and all significant items are identified and reported to the F&C board on a regular basis.
F&C provides a quarterly summary of its key risks to the Group Risk function.
The risk management arrangements within F&C are described in detail in the F&C Annual Report and Accounts.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 55 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 29 3 07 09:21 Page 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit In preparing each of the group and parent company financial services may be formally market-tested through a tender process statements, the directors are required to: involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the consistently: needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
As reported in make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and the Audit and Compliance Committees report to shareholders on prudent: page 57, a limited tender process was undertaken during the year for the group financial statements, state whether they have in conjunction with F&C to agree the appointment of a single been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: group external auditor.
This process concluded with the for the parent company financial statements, state whether appointment by F&C of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to F&C in applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, October 2006. subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Statement of compliance with provisions of the the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Combined Code unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the The directors consider that the Company has throughout 2006 and parent company will continue in business.
to date applied the principles and met the requirements of the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of financial position of the parent company and enable them to the Annual Report and Accounts ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as and the group and parent company financial statements, in are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the corporate and financial information included on the Companys law, the directors are required to prepare the group financial website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and the applicable law and in other jurisdictions.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Future developments in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2006 and to date have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as Nevertheless, it continues to be committed to the highest adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in that those controls continue to develop in line with the relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant requirements of the business, the FSA and leading practice.
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to On behalf of the Board give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
Gordon Ellis Company Secretary 19 March 2007 56 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
