qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 57 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The Audit and Compliance Committee The Committee has undertaken a review and implemented Purpose and terms of reference changes to ensure that the reporting structures for internal controls The Committee provides the Board with independent assurance on and risk are appropriate for the needs of the Company and reflect the Groups financial reporting process, internal controls and the widening geographical scope of the Companys activities and adherence to policies and procedures.
The role, responsibilities and its more extensive range of products.
work of the Committee can best be understood by reference to its written terms of reference, which are published on the Companys As part of its normal responsibilities, the Committee has dealt with website and can be obtained on written request to the Company compliance with the relevant parts of the Combined Code, the Secretary at the Companys registered office.
effectiveness of internal controls and reporting procedures for risk management processes.
In particular, the Committee has agreed The Committee has again reviewed its terms of reference and its the annual audit plan with the external auditor and has considered effectiveness, the latter by reference to a self-assessment the auditors reports and has monitored and followed up questionnaire that focused on the behaviours of the Committee management actions in response to the issues raised.
The results were discussed in November 2006 Committee also worked closely with Internal Audit and agreed the when the Committee collectively concluded that it was operating annual internal audit plan and reviewed the performance and effectively.
The Committee also reviewed the Membership and attendance Companys policy on whistleblowing, the anti-money laundering procedures and the annual compliance plan for the Companys UK The members of the Committee are Christopher Jemmett Life and Pensions subsidiaries.
Chairman, Alison Carnwath, Ray King and Lord MacGregor and their record of attendance during 2006 is set out on page 50.
The use of the auditors for non-audit work is approved by the Committee or its Chairman within his delegated authority.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should On an annual basis, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of continue throughout 2007.
Committee meetings are normally the external auditor and has made a recommendation to the Board attended, at the invitation of the Chairman, by the external auditor, on the reappointment of the auditor.
Within the schedule of the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Executive and, meetings, the Committee fulfilled its main role and responsibilities periodically, the Group Head of Risk, the Director of Governance, and as a consequence can confirm that it has met the requirements the Director of Group Finance and the Head of Internal Audit.
of the Combined Code in so far as they relate to the work of audit committees during 2006 and up to the date of this report.
Activities and work of the Committee During 2006, the Committee met on five occasions, timed to coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the For the Board Company.
The Committee has throughout the year monitored the integrity of the financial statements through a review of the quarterly new business results and final and interim report and accounts.
In addition, during 2006 the Committee in conjunction with the Audit and Compliance Committee of its Asset Management subsidiary, F&C has met twice to consider the benefits to the Group of the Christopher Jemmett appointment of a single group auditor.
A limited tender process Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee was undertaken between the auditors of the Company and of 19 March 2007 F&C.
Following completion of this process, the Audit and Compliance Committee of F&C made a recommendation to the board of F&C to appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of F&C and this appointment took effect in October 2006.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 57
