qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT The Nomination Committee executive director from 1 October 2006.
The Committee is Purpose and terms of reference currently progressing the search for a further independent nonThe Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations executive director.
The increased number of meetings held by the to the Board, for all new Board appointments.
It ensures the Committee during the year reflected the additional workload arising existence of a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, the aim from these activities.
of which is to ensure that appointments are appropriate to the needs of the Group and the balance of the Board.
The Committee has also again reviewed the standard letter of appointment used for the non-executive directors contract for The terms of reference of the Committee, which explain the services to ensure that it continues to meet the requirements of purpose, delegated authority and duties of the Committee, have the Combined Code.
The individual terms and conditions of been published on the Companys website and can be obtained on appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during written request to the Company Secretary.
Through its agenda, the normal business hours at the Companys registered office by Committee effectively deals with the duties delegated to it by its contacting the Company Secretary.
The Committee has assessed whether each independent director Membership and attendance is fulfilling his or her duties, confirmed the time required of nonThe members of the Committee are Lord MacGregor Chairman, executive directors for the fulfilment of their duties, and made Lady Judge and Sir Adrian Montague.
The attendance record of recommendations to the Board as to the independence of members at the meetings of the Committee is set out on page 50. directors and their suitability for re-election as directors.
The Group Chief Executive attended when required, by invitation.
Finally, the Committee reviewed the relevant parts of the draft For the entirety of 2006, and up to the date of this report, the 2007 AGM notice to shareholders to ensure its appropriateness as Company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code regards those matters to be disclosed that could be regarded as in so far as they related to the work of nomination committees.
within the Committees remit, for example, the biographical details of directors and their independence.
Activities and work of the Committee Following Keith Satchells announcement of his intention to retire in 2007, the succession plans for both executive and non-executive For the Board directors were reviewed throughout 2006 and the Committee led the search and recruitment process with the assistance of external executive search consultants.
The Committee considered fully the leadership needs of the Group and after considering both internal and external candidates, recommended to the Board that Philip Moore, the existing Group Finance Director, be appointed as Group The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market Chief Executive.
Philip Moore was duly appointed as Group Chief Chairman, Nomination Committee Executive on 1 January 2007 in succession to Keith Satchell.
As a 19 March 2007 result of Philip Moores appointment, the Committee undertook a further search for a new Group Finance Director.
The Committee interviewed a number of candidates and recommended to the Board the appointment of Jim Smart who joined the Company in November 2006 and was formally appointed Group Finance Director on 1 January 2007.
The Committee also considered the need for additional non-executive directors in view of the planned retirements of Christopher Jemmett and Lord MacGregor, who are both aged 70, in May 2007.
The Committee reviewed the mix of skills and experience that would be of most benefit to the Group and following a further search process recommended the appointment of Sir Mervyn Pedelty as an independent non- 58 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
