Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice For the year ended 31 December 2006 Dear Shareholder I am delighted to introduce this, our fifth, HBOS Remuneration Committee Report for which we will be seeking approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
It is my final report as Chair of the Committee.
Karen Jones, a fellow Non-executive Director, will take over as Chair immediately following the Annual General Meeting in April 2007.
We introduced our current remuneration policy for our most senior colleagues now about 215 in all at the start of 2002, immediately following the establishment of HBOS plc.
Our remuneration principles have changed little since then and, in broad terms, are as follows: we have a median salary policy and manage actual salaries broadly up to this position: we set clear and tough targets under our short term incentive STI schemes - and we inform shareholders of our performance against those targets and the resulting STI outcomes: we operate a nowt for nowt long term incentive LTI scheme: if we do no better than matching our competitor average in terms of returns for shareholders, our top 215 colleagues get no LTI: and we ensure that we have a clear correlation between overall reward and corporate performance, both in the short and the long term.
We believe that we are at the forefront, among our competitors, of operating in such a robust and transparent remuneration environment.
Following the five full calendar years that our remuneration policy has been in place, I can report that: during that period, and following regular reviews by the Committee, we have maintained the key characteristics of our policy and have not seen a need for fundamental change: we have gained strong support for our policy and practice from shareholders generally, as recently evidenced by support from almost 99% of shareholders who voted on the 2004 and 2005 Remuneration Committee Reports: we have maintained regular and open dialogue with our major shareholders and their representative bodies and have enjoyed welcome support and advice from them on remuneration matters: and we have examined how well incentive awards made in previous years have aligned with both shareholders interests and the Groups performance and have concluded that alignment is strong.
Speci cally, on that latter point we have looked back over the first five full calendar years of HBOS 2002-2006 in order to assess the correlation between corporate performance and incentive outcomes.
Under the STI arrangements, we have used consistent measures - pro tability, earnings per share EPS and return on equity ROE.
Over the five year period these have risen, on average, by about 17.3% p. a. about 16.1% p. a. and about 6.7% p. a. respectively.
Even though we have delivered double digit pro t growth each year, our STI payments have, on average, been only about one third of the way from the target levels towards the maximum levels.
Our consistent delivery of operational performance also shows through in our strong relative total shareholder return TSR performance and in the rewards which our shareholders - and also our colleagues - enjoy as a result.
Speci cally, under the LTI arrangements, we have again used a consistent measure - TSR - and over the five year period, we have, on average, outperformed our competitors annually by about 5% and HBOSs absolute TSR over that period has been about 69%.
In terms of incentive outcomes, we have made payments, on average, at about 90% of maximum levels.
Overall, over this period, shareholders have enjoyed about 11bn of added value over and above the cumulative annual growth delivered by our weighted average comparator group: our LTI payments to colleagues have represented approximately 1.5% of this gain.
Every year since 2002, all incentive outcomes earned by Executive Directors have, at their choice, been taken in HBOS shares, rather than in cash.
In 2005, we conducted a wide ranging review of remuneration policy for our most senior colleagues and, as explained in last years report, we decided to: cease, from Pensions A-Day in April 2006, service-related pension accrual for those whose pension pots then exceeded the 1.5m Lifetime Allowance.
We replaced that remuneration element with a simple but generally lower value annual taxable cash allowance of 25% of salary: maintain the LTI scheme for our most senior colleagues, in its current form.
It pays nothing for average performance and pays linearly increasing amounts as we add more value for shareholders relative to that created by our competitors - with about 1.5% of that relative added value going to participants and 98.5% going to shareholders generally: and maintain the structure of the existing STI scheme and introduce, from January 2006, a second element to the STI scheme for our 50 most senior colleagues who collectively, are the principal drivers of not only divisional operating but also Group operating and Group shareholder performance.
One year later, it is apparent that many competitors have increased incentive opportunities quite signi cantly and appear to have made relatively strong STI payments for relatively average performance.
Furthermore, the changes we have made in response to the Pensions A-Day legislation, which bring greater transparency and performance orientation to the HBOS reward proposition, have been followed, so far, by very few others.
We must be competitive on our reward offerings.
So, to retain our best colleagues and to recruit and retain the best from elsewhere, we propose further changes from 2007 - but on a basis which continues to align colleague and shareholder interests.
Firstly, as established readers of our reports will know, we actively encourage colleague shareholding, most signi cantly through our sharekicker facility.
This allows colleagues to invest their STI outcomes in HBOS shares and to get 50% more after three years if they stay with us.
We intend to sustain that scheme for the vast majority of colleagues.
But, from 2007, for our most senior 215 colleagues, sharekicker will become much more performance-linked.
Like our existing LTI, it will work on a nowt for nowt principle.
So, if we do not grow EPS, in real terms, over the three year sharekicker period, senior colleagues will just get their own invested money back with no enhancement.
Our rigorous nowt for nowt approach in relation to mediocre performance ows through into an equally rigorous approach when we perform well.
So, if we deliver real EPS growth of 12% p. a. or more over three years, colleagues will get a 200% return on their sharekicker investment.
99 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Secondly, for Executive Directors and subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting, we will increase conditional share grants under our existing LTI from 100% to 133.33% of salary.
The changes we are making recreate the opportunity for colleagues to receive competitive incentive outcomes but only if they create additional value for shareholders through real EPS growth and relative TSR growth.
We construct all our incentives so that all our colleagues have a very clear performance:reward link - and one that is increasingly performance focused and longer term in nature, as colleague seniority increases.
The changes mean that our suite of incentive schemes for 2007 for our top 215 colleagues will be: Core STI 1 year Purpose: To motivate achievement of divisional operating objectives over one year.
Performance measures and drivers: Will vary by level of seniority and function.
May include divisional sales, costs, pro tability, risk management delivery and or customer service delivery.
Extended STI 2 years top 50 colleagues only Purpose: To motivate consistent achievement of Group operating objectives over more than one year.
Performance measures and drivers: Group pro tability, operating expenses and EPS.
LTI - TSR 3 years Purpose: To incentivise relative and absolute overall share performance.
To align shareholder and senior colleague interests.
Performance measures and drivers: Relative TSR with secondary absolute TSR.
LTI - EPS 3 years Purpose: To incentivise consistent improvement in real EPS and to encourage colleagues to invest core STI and extended STI outcomes in shares.
Performance measures and drivers: Real EPS growth.
In the full report which follows, we have produced transparent and extensive technical details, as we have done for the past four years.
We welcome questions and feedback from all shareholders on both the content and the transparency of the report.
We believe our remuneration policy is right for our shareholders and right for our colleagues - and we encourage all shareholders to support this report at the Companys forthcoming 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Brian Ivory Chair Remuneration Committee 27 February 2007 100 1.
What this report covers This report to shareholders: sets out our remuneration policy: explains the policy under which our Chairman, our Executive Directors, the next two most senior groups of colleagues and our Non-executive Directors were remunerated for the year ended 31 December 2006: and sets out tables of information showing individual details of the salary, incentive, share and pension interests of all the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Role and membership of the committee and compliance issues The Remuneration Committee the Committee is a committee of the Board.
Your Board believes that a properly constituted and effective Remuneration Committee is key to ensuring that Executive Directors and other colleagues remuneration is aligned with shareholders interests and that it motivates Executive Directors and other colleagues to enhance the absolute performance and the relative competitiveness of the Group.
The full Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found at www.
The members of the Committee during 2006 were all independent Non-executive Directors, as shown below: Sir Brian Ivory Chair Sir Ron Garrick Karen Jones joined 1 July 2006 Coline McConville At the invitation of the Chair of the Committee, the Groups Chairman and the Chief Executive attend Committee meetings to provide background and context on matters relating to the remuneration of the other Executive Directors and other colleagues in the Group, but do not attend when their own remuneration or contractual terms are discussed.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration or contractual terms.
During 2006, the Committee met on 7 occasions and the attendance of Committee members is as shown below: Sir Brian Ivory Chair 7 meetings Sir Ron Garrick 7 meetings Karen Jones 3 meetings of a possible 3 Coline McConville 7 meetings This frequency of meetings enables the Committee regularly to review, for Executive Directors and other senior colleagues, overall reward and the components thereof, in relation to the absolute performance and the relative competitiveness of the Group.
The performance of the Committee is evaluated as part of the overall evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of each Non-executive Director, as set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 93 to 98.
Full details of the Groups approach to Corporate Governance, including compliance with the Combined Code, are also included in that report.
The Board has approved this report.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting inviting them to consider and approve this report, as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The report complies with the requirements of all relevant regulations under the Companies Act 1985 and the Combined Code.
Section 10 of this report has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc, with the exception of Section 10.3.
1 Shares, Notes 5 and 10 to Table 6a within Section 10.3.
7 Interest in Shares under Trusts and Section 10.3.
9 Statutory Performance Graph, which do not fall to be audited.
Advisors to the committee During 2006, David Fisher, Director, Group HR, acted as Secretary to the Committee and provided advice to it.
Ian Goodwin, previously Secretary to the Committee, continued to provide advice to it.
Harry Baines, Company Secretary, also provided advice to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee sought independent external advice on remuneration matters.
The Committee does not retain a lead advisor but uses organisations best suited to undertake speci c projects from time to time.
During 2006, the Committee took advice, directly or indirectly, from: Watson Wyatt Limited, in relation to pension issues: a partner from this organisation acts as Trustee Actuary to the Groups final salary pension scheme: Mercer Human Resource Consulting, in relation to pension issues: this organisation also acts as Corporate Actuary to the Group: Hay Group, in relation to remuneration issues: this organisation also advises the Group on a range of remuneration issues: New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, in relation to various policy and remuneration issues and in relation to the preparation of this report: and Linklaters, in relation to various legal issues and in relation to the preparation of this report: this organisation also provides legal advice to the Group on remuneration and on a wide range of other issues.
In the opinion of the Committee, there were no con icts of interest during 2006 in relation to these organisations advising the Group, the pension scheme trustees and the Committee.
Service contracts The Chairman of the Group is covered by a contract which extends to 30 June 2008.
If the contract is terminated by the Group prior to the expiry of the term, contractual compensation equivalent to the fees payable during the balance of the term subject to a maximum compensation equivalent to one years fees may, in certain circumstances, be payable.
All the Executive Directors have rolling contracts which can be terminated by the Group on one years notice or by the Director on six months notice.
If any contract is terminated by the Group prior to the expiry of the term, contractual compensation up to the equivalent of one years basic salary may, in certain circumstances, be payable.
There is no contractual compensation entitlement for any of the Directors beyond this.
Executive Directors are expected to make reasonable efforts to mitigate any loss arising from early termination of their contracts.
There are no provisions in service contracts which provide for enhanced terms on a change of control of the Group.
It is the Committees policy to design contracts for any newly recruited Executive Directors in a comparable form to the contracts of existing Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors are appointed by letter for an initial term of three years.
They will usually serve a second three year term.
Where the Board is satis ed that it is in the interests of the Group and its shareholders, a Non-executive Director may be asked to serve a third three year term.
101 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Notwithstanding these three yearly terms, appointments of Non-executive Directors can be terminated at any time on one months written notice given either by the individual Director or by the Group.
External appointments The Group recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the bene t of the Group.
Provided that it does not impact materially on their executive duties, Executive Directors are generally encouraged to accept one such appointment.
They may retain any resulting fee.
In certain circumstances, two such appointments may be permitted.
The fees payable in respect of any second appointments are donated to charity.
Share ownership The Group believes that share ownership by colleagues throughout the Group enhances their alignment with shareholders interests.
Therefore colleagues in the Group are able to acquire shares as a result of: the free share plan up to 3,000 p. a. : the sharesave plan based on contributions of up to 3,000 p. a. : the sharebuy plan based on contributions of up to 1,500 p. a. or 10% of salary, whichever is the lesser this is being introduced in 2007 : These three plans are set up within the approved HMRC legislative framework which can confer tax advantages on UK colleagues.
the short term incentive plan for all other than the most senior 215.
Colleagues can opt to take the whole or part of their incentive in shares rather than in cash.
Those who take their incentive in shares, retain them for three years and remain with the Group for that period or rank as qualifying leavers receive a guaranteed 50% enhancement of such shareholding this facility is termed sharekicker : the long term incentive plan linked to the core and extended short term incentive plans.
For the most senior 215, colleagues can opt to take the whole or part of their incentive in shares rather than in cash.
Those who take their incentive in shares, retain them for three years and remain with the Group for that period or rank as qualifying leavers may receive no enhancement or may receive up to a 200% enhancement of such shareholding depending on the real growth in the Groups EPS over the three year period.
There is a real at risk element to this component this is being introduced from the start of 2007 : the long term incentive plan linked to TSR performance.
For the most senior 215, share grants of varying percentages of salaries are made and colleagues may receive none of the grant or may receive up to 200% of the grant depending on the Groups annualised TSR compared to the annual weighted average TSR of a basket of comparator companies.
There is also a real at risk element to this component: and personal purchase using the Groups, or other, sharedealing facilities.
These arrangements assist colleagues throughout the Group to acquire shares.
They form a key element of the Groups sustained and, we believe, differentiating commitment to encouraging share ownership by as many colleagues as possible.
The Group requires all of its Directors including the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, together with other senior colleagues, to acquire and retain signi cant numbers of shares relative to base salaries or fees.
In the case of each Director the value of the shareholding is required to be at least 100% of base salary or base fee, based on average personal shareholdings, within three years of appointment.
All such colleagues satis ed these requirements in 2006.
It is pleasing to report that the average holding of Executive Directors who had been in post for at least three years at the end of 2006 was about six times the minimum requirement a strong vote of con dence in the Groups future prospects.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior colleagues To deliver its objective of creating real increases in shareholder value relative to the finance sector, the Group needs to attract and retain the most capable and committed people and create the right employment conditions and reward opportunities for them.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors and their most senior colleagues is aligned with this objective.
Accordingly, the focus of remuneration policy is not simply on salary but is increasingly weighted towards incentive plans that are aligned with the delivery of both shorter term operating plans and longer term increases in shareholder value.
The practical delivery of this policy is achieved through a number of objectives which have remained largely stable since 2002.
However, in 2006, the Group modi ed both its short term incentive plan and its pension policy as explained in last years report and, in 2007, the Group intends subject, in respect of one element, to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting to make further changes to incentive plans, most signi cantly by introducing a second long term incentive plan.
The resulting objectives for 2007 will therefore be as follows: salary policy will be set at around market median for the financial services sector though, in practice, salaries are managed broadly up to this position: the short term incentive plans will be based on the delivery of operating plans: and the long term incentive plans will be focused on both the creation of relative additional shareholder value and the creation of real growth in EPS.
Participants in these plans will not receive any payments under them unless either: the Groups relative TSR is above that of the finance sector as measured using the weighted average TSR of a comparator group of companies.
This long term plan is highly geared so that average performance or worse generates no reward but outstanding performance generates a high level of reward: or the Groups growth in EPS is above that of the growth in the Retail Prices Index.
This long term plan is also highly geared so that no real performance improvement or worse generates no reward but outstanding performance generates a high level of reward.
The Committee has appropriate procedures in place to ensure that these policies are followed in practice.
The changes we are making to our remuneration structures are set out in Sections 7.3 and 7.4.
There are no further plans at present to make any changes to this remuneration policy for 2007 and beyond.
In broad terms, for 2007 and beyond, for every 100 of target reward for Executive Directors, about 30 is xed and 70 is performance contingent.
Sustained exceptional performance can result in a further 100 of reward.
Of the performance element of reward, between 13.5% and 22% is based solely on annual performance with the rest based on longer term performance.
For remuneration purposes, roles in HBOS fall into one of ten categories, Levels 1-9 and the Executive Directors.
This report covers colleagues who fall into Level 8 and above, about 50 colleagues in all, but with emphasis on Executive Directors.
The report also covers the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
The Appendix gives broad details of remuneration arrangements for colleagues in Levels 1-7.
102 7.1 Salary Salary benchmarks are reviewed annually, taking account of information from independent sources on salary rates for comparable jobs in the finance sector and in other selected major listed companies.
Actual salaries are normally reviewed annually in May but can be reviewed at any time.
There is no automatic or guaranteed annual salary increase.
The benchmarking process is both extensive and rigorous.
It is designed to ensure that actual salaries are managed up to broadly the median salary policy adopted by the Committee.
Speci cally, the Committee considers data sourced from Hay Group and New Bridge Street Consultants LLP: as well as data sourced from annual reports and accounts of other relevant companies.
These include selected companies from the FTSE 20 comprising an equal number of companies, by market capitalisation, bigger than and smaller than HBOS together with other major banks, insurance companies and retailers.
Base salaries of the Executive Directors after the most recent review with effect from 1 May 2006 and at 31 December 2006, were: Peter Cummings 570,000, Jo Dawson 455,000, Benny Higgins 625,000, Andy Hornby 870,000 from 1 August 2006, Phil Hodkinson 615,000, Colin Matthew 575,000.
The signi cant salary increase for Andy Hornby was largely attributable to his promotion to Chief Executive with effect from 1 August 2006.
Until the date of his leaving on 31 July 2006 Sir James Crosbys base salary was 875,000.
At 31 December 2006, the average salary for those in Level 9 was 290,000: the upper quartile was 315,000 and the lower quartile was 260,000: and for those in Level 8 the average was 219,000: the upper quartile was 241,000 and the lower quartile was 187,000.
7.2 Incentive plan philosophy The purpose of the incentive plans is to provide a direct link between each individuals remuneration and three components of performance, namely their own, that of the business they work in and that of the total Group, both over the shorter and the longer term.
All Executive Directors and a substantial majority of other senior colleagues with HBOS-wide portfolios participate in incentive plans which are Group-wide.
Performance targets and levels of participation differ in order to align overall individual remuneration with the Groups policy objectives outlined earlier.
Different, market speci c, arrangements exist for a small number of senior colleagues within the Group.
Payment of incentives, for Executive Directors and certain other individuals, is subject to the approval of the Committee.
Except in certain exceptional circumstances in respect of initial periods of employment, it is the Committees policy that no Executive Director should have a contractual right to an incentive.
Incentive arrangements to apply during 2007 are set out below.
7.3 Shorter term incentive plans The shorter term incentive plans for Executive Directors and colleagues in Level 9 and Level 8 have two key elements.
The first element, operated annually, rewards the achievement of annual line of sight operating plan objectives those for which the individual has prime or material contributory accountability.
It is an annual scheme based on annual performance.
Payment levels which apply for the 2007 plan are as follows: Category Incentive for 2007 as a % of annual salary Target Maximum Executive Directors 60 90 Level 9 50 75 Level 8 40 60 Any incentive outcome from the 2007 plan is crystallised for participants in March 2008 but then may be invested in shares for three years until March 2011 see Section 7.4.
For Executive Directors and certain senior colleagues, payment of target incentive will require the achievement of targets which include EPS, pro tability and operating expenses.
For others, payment of target incentive will require the achievement of divisional or functional operating plan targets which might include sales, costs, pro tability, risk management and or customer service components.
The second element, operated annually, rewards the sustained achievement of Group operating plan objectives, for which Executive Directors and colleagues in Level 9 and Level 8 have aggregate contributory responsibility, through a combination of annual and biennial performance.
Group performance is again measured using EPS, pro tability and operating expenses.
Any incentive outcome from the 2007-08 plan is crystallised for participants in March 2009 but then may be invested in shares for three years until March 2012 see Section 7.4.
The incentive levels for both the first and second elements of the plan are generally similar to, but marginally higher than, those which applied in 2006 and 2006-07.
The Committee is proposing to increase certain incentive levels for these plan elements to address, in part, a clear shortfall in HBOSs competitive remuneration position in the financial services sector.
103 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued There is a separate additional core short term incentive plan for one Executive Director, Peter Cummings, to recognise and respond to market practice in his divisional specialism.
The levels of the incentive payments under this additional plan are dependent on the extent to which Peter Cummings achieves his divisional operating plans.
The additional incentive opportunity was a target incentive of 50% of salary and a maximum of 75% of salary for 2006 and will be a target incentive of 100% of salary and a maximum of 200% of salary for 2007, payable in a mixture of cash and shares.
7.4 Longer term incentive plans The longer term incentive plans for Executive Directors and colleagues in Level 9 and Level 8 have two key elements.
Under the first element, participants are granted conditional shares shortly after the start of the financial year equal to the number of shares secured by a percentage of the participants salary and based on the price of the Groups shares, using the average market price in the last ten business days of the previous financial year.
For awards in 2007, grant levels subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting in respect of Executive Directors will be as follows: Category Conditional share grant as a % of salary Executive Directors 133.33 Level 9 100 Level 8 66.67 The number of shares ultimately released to participants under the plan is dependent on the Groups annualised TSR fide ned as the gross overall return on ordinary shares of HBOS after all adjustments for capital actions and reinvestment of dividends or other income over three year periods, compared to the annualised weighted average TSR of a basket of comparator companies Alliance & Leicester: Aviva: Barclays: Bradford & Bingley: Legal & General: Lloyds TSB: Northern Rock: Prudential: Royal Bank of Scotland: and Royal & Sun Alliance over equivalent periods.
For awards in 2007, any releases early in 2010 will be as follows: Groups relative Amount released as TSR performance a % of share grant 0% p. a. or below 0 3% p. a.
100 6% p. a. or above 200 Intermediate positions will be determined by interpolation.
If the relative TSR performance does not exceed 0% p. a. after three years, the conditional share grant lapses.
There is no retest in this or any other circumstance.
The Committee believes that TSR is an appropriate performance measure because it is a robust and transparent measure of the creation of shareholder value: that a relative measure is more competitively appropriate than an absolute one: and that a weighted average group made up of the biggest domestic banking and insurance companies is the most valid comparator and gives a more effective performance test than a traditional ranking-based league table.
Calculations of TSR performance are performed independently of the Group by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP for the purposes of determining outcomes under the plan.
Provided that the weighted average TSR of the comparator companies is at least 0% p. a. HBOS shareholders will have to enjoy an additional return equivalent to at least 8bn over 2007-2009 for share grant participants in 2007 to enjoy maximum releases early in 2010.
The estimated face value of conditional share grants for 2007 is about 22.4m in respect of about 205 participants.
Maximum releases would amount to about 44.8m plus share growth plus dividends.
Under the second element, participants may choose to invest some or all of their cash shorter term incentive outcomes as described in Section 7.3 in the Groups shares for a three year period: with the number of shares ultimately released to participants under the plan dependent on the Groups annualised real growth in EPS in excess of the Retail Prices Index.
For investments early in 2007, releases early in 2010 will be as follows: Groups real Amount added as a EPS performance % of amount invested 0% p. a. or below 0 6% p. a.
100 12% p. a. or above 200 Intermediate positions will be determined by interpolation.
If the real EPS performance does not exceed 0% p. a. after three years, the investment opportunity lapses.
The Committee believes that EPS is an appropriate performance measure because it is a robust and transparent measure and regarded as the best rounded long term absolute measure of financial performance.
This second element of the longer term incentive plans replaces sharekicker for Executive Directors and colleagues in Levels 9 and 8 as set out for Executive Directors in Section 10.3.
Colleagues with existing sharekicker entitlements from March 2005 and or March 2006 will be given the opportunity to transfer these interests into this new incentive plan in March 2007 but only linked to the performance of prospective and not retrospective real growth in EPS.
104 Executive Directors and colleagues in Level 9 and Level 8 have never been granted executive share options by HBOS and will not be granted executive share options in 2007.
There are no plans to grant executive share options to these individuals in future years.
The Executive Directors and other senior colleagues may participate in the free share plan and in the sharesave plan.
The Executive Directors and other senior colleagues will also be able to participate in the sharebuy plan being introduced for all eligible UK colleagues in 2007.
These are all standard HMRC approved schemes available to nearly all colleagues, with no performance conditions.
These overall long term incentive levels are higher than those which applied in 2006.
The Committee is proposing to increase the overall potential incentive levels to address, in part, a clear shortfall in HBOSs competitive remuneration position in the financial services sector.
7.5 Bene ts Each senior colleague is provided with bene ts, which principally comprise a company car or cash in lieu, pension arrangements or allowances, paid leave, healthcare cover and preferential terms for some Group products.
Individuals are generally included in membership of HMRC approved final salary pension arrangements and, for certain individuals who joined the Group after 1989, for membership of separate final salary pension arrangements.
These arrangements, taken together, provide a personal pension bene t based on salary only.
The arrangements also provide a lump sum life assurance bene t of four times salary and pension bene ts for spouses dependants and qualifying children.
The final salary pension arrangements are closed to new entrants.
All recruits since October 2002 have been, and future recruits will be, included in HMRC approved money purchase pension arrangements or separate arrangements of equivalent value.
These arrangements also provide a lump sum life assurance bene t of four times salary.
All tax-approved bene ts are subject to HMRC limits.
Pension entitlement is based on salary only.
In April 2006 service related pension accrual under final salary pension arrangements ceased for those whose pension interest then exceeded the Lifetime Allowance of 1.5m.
In broad terms, this is equivalent to a maximum pension of 75,000 p. a. or such higher amount as had accrued by April 2006.
Similar cessations applied under money purchase pension arrangements.
Affected colleagues receive an annual non-pensionable cash allowance of 25% of salary, payable monthly, in lieu of such service related pension accrual or money purchase pension contributions.
This cash allowance will not count as salary for the purposes of the incentive schemes.
Similar cessations will take effect in April 2007 and in each subsequent April as more colleagues pension interests exceed the Lifetime Allowance applicable at that time.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman The remuneration policy for the Chairman recognises that, whilst the Chairman was independent of the organisation when he joined it, he is not now regarded as independent.
The Chairman plays an active role in in uencing the strategic direction of the Group and ensuring overall performance delivery.
Therefore we believe that it is entirely appropriate that the Chairmans reward arrangements are based on a mixture of a base fee and performance-related long term incentive.
The base fee of the Chairman after the most recent review with effect from 1 July 2006, and at 31 December 2006, was 680,000.
In addition, as has been the case in HBOS since 2002, the Chairman is included in a long term incentive plan equivalent to that described in the first part of Section 7.4.
He receives an annual conditional grant based on 100% of his fee which is otherwise subject to the same performance conditions as apply to Executive Directors.
The Committee established the long term incentive plan for the Chairman through a separately constituted scheme, for two reasons.
Firstly, so that shareholders could vote on this scheme quite separately from any vote on the scheme applying to Executive Directors.
Secondly, for legal reasons, because the Chairman is not an employee of the Group and cannot therefore be included in the share-based long term incentive plan described in the first part of Section 7.4 as that plan is available to employees only.
In practice, however, the scheme which applies for the Chairman is a mirror image of the scheme applying to Executive Directors, save that the annual conditional grant is based on, and will remain at, 100% of his fee.
There is no other incentive plan and there are no bene ts car or cash in lieu, pension, paid leave, healthcare for the Chairman.
The Chairman is reimbursed for a proportion of his of ce expenses.
The Committee does not seek precisely to calibrate the Chairmans reward to a particular time commitment: in practice the Chairman has always been available as required by the Group and, in broad terms, spends about half his working time on HBOS business.
Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Remuneration for Non-executive Directors consists solely of fees.
There are no short term incentive plans or long term incentive plans or bene ts car or cash in lieu, pension, paid leave, healthcare for Non-executive Directors.
The current base Board membership fee for each Non-executive Director after the most recent review, effective from 1 May 2006, is 57,750.
In addition, fees are paid for services on committees and for directorships of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Fees are set based on comparisons with other Non-executive Director fees and time commitments in comparable companies.
105 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued 10.
Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2006 10.1 Emoluments Table 1a below has been prepared in accordance with regulatory requirements in respect of Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The allowances paid in 2006, which generally relate to nine month periods, were: Sir James Crosby 72,917 four months, Peter Cummings 105,417, Benny Higgins 104,167 eight months, Phil Hodkinson 114,479, Andy Hornby 152,708 and Colin Matthew 107,292.
The allowance paid in 2005 to Mark Tucker was 142,647 on terms set out in last years report.
Comparative year end totals excluding the non-pensionable cash allowances are also detailed.
Note 2: The annual cash incentive amounts, approved by the Committee, relate to performance under the short term incentive plan in 2006 against targets for EPS and ROE and pro tability.
The target cash incentive was 50% of salary and the maximum cash incentive was 75% of salary.
The actual cash incentive outcome for 2006 was 69.65% of salary.
Both the target cash incentive level and the actual cash incentive outcome exclude the additional incentive arrangements for Peter Cummings.
Annual cash incentive gures exclude potential sharekicker enhancements for any element of the incentive taken in shares.
Details of potential sharekicker enhancements from earlier years are set out in Table 5a and Table 5b.
The deferred share incentive amounts, approved by the Committee, relate to the release, during 2006, of the additional shares under sharekicker as set out in Table 5a and Table 5b.
Note 3: Peter Cummings was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 January 2006.
His contract, incentives and bene ts are in a form comparable to that for existing Executive Directors except that he has an additional short term incentive plan as described in Section 7.3.
Jo Dawson was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 May 2006.
Her contract, incentives and bene ts are in a form comparable to that for existing Executive Directors.
Benny Higgins was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 May 2006.
His contract, incentives and bene ts are in a form comparable to that for existing Executive Directors except that he has certain temporary components of his remuneration which compensate for remuneration lost when leaving his previous employer.
The table includes an amount of 100,000 column 3 paid to him when he joined the Group: and includes an amount of 145,000 column 5 which represents the backdating of his incentive to the start of 2006.
Table 6a gives details of other temporary components of his remuneration.
106 Karen Jones was appointed a Non-executive Director on 24 January 2006.
Sir James Crosby retired as an Executive Director on 31 July 2006.
He participated in the first element of the short term incentive plan, as described in Section 7.3, for the first seven months of 2006.
He did not participate in the second element of the short term incentive plan, as described in Section 7.3: nor did he participate in the long term incentive plan starting in 2006, as described in Section 7.4.
He received no pension enhancement and no termination payment.
George Mitchell, Mark Tucker and John Maclean ceased to be Directors in 2005 based on terms set out in last years report.
Note 4: The fee payment to Dennis Stevenson comprises payments made to him personally in respect of his service as Chairman of the Group of 627,500 2005 - 562,500.
Note 5: From 1 May 2005 the basic Board membership fee payable to Non-executive Directors was at a rate of 50,000 p. a. and from 1 May 2006 it was increased to a rate of 57,750 p. a.
The basic Board membership fee covers the range of duties and responsibilities associated with Non-executive Directorship, including attending Board meetings and the Annual General Meeting.
The gures shown in the table above also include fees for services on committees of the Board, details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 93 to 98.
The levels of fees for some Non-executive Directors re ect the signi cant time spent by them on such committee duties.
The gures shown in the table above also include fees for services as Directors of subsidiaries and joint ventures: and for services on other committees.
The fees in relation to these subsidiaries, joint ventures and other committees were as follows: Table 1b 2006 2005 000 000 Charles Dunstone 20 17 Sir Ron Garrick - - Anthony Hobson 116 85 Sir Brian Ivory 34 33 Karen Jones - - Coline McConville 20 17 Kate Nealon 59 40 David Shearer 30 26 John Maclean - 55 Total 279 273 Note 6: The salaries shown for Sir James Crosby, Phil Hodkinson and Andy Hornby are the amounts of salary they would have received had they not given up 5,718, 5,441 and 4,488, respectively, as additional pension contributions.
Short term incentives, long term incentives and pension entitlements have been calculated by reference to salaries prior to the reductions for additional pension contributions.
Note 7: Certain Executive Directors are non-executive directors of other companies.
Their roles and fees were as follows: Sir James Crosby was a Non-executive Director of ITV plc during 2006 for which he received fees until his retirement from HBOS on 31 July 2006 which he retained of 29,167.
Sir James Crosby was a Non-executive Director of the Financial Services Authority during 2006 for which he received fees until his retirement from HBOS on 31 July 2006 of 17,396 which he donated to charity.
Sir James Crosby was a Non-executive Director of St. Jamess Place plc during 2006.
The fees were paid directly to HBOS and not to him personally.
Sir James Crosby resigned as a Non-executive Director on 31 May 2006.
Andy Hornby was a Non-executive Director of GUS plc until 10 October 2006 Home Retail Group plc from 11 October 2006 for which he received fees which he retains of 37,225.
In addition, the annual rate of share based fee which he retains is 2,500 ordinary shares in GUS plc, and an amount of 14,937 in lieu of ordinary shares in Home Retail Group plc.
Andy Hornby and Jo Dawson were appointed Non-executive Directors of St Jamess Place plc on 31 May 2006.
The fees are paid directly to HBOS and not to them personally.
Phil Hodkinson was appointed a Non-executive Director of BT Group plc on 1 February 2006 for which he received fees which he retains of 48,333.
Phil is also a Director of Business in the Community for which he received no fees.
Jo Dawson was appointed to the Association of British Insurers on 12 July 2006.
Peter Cummings was a Director of The Maggie Keswick Jencks Cancer Caring Centres during 2006.
Benny Higgins was appointed a Non-executive Director of Sainsburys Bank plc on 2 May 2006.
Benny Higgins was appointed a Non-executive Director of Visa Europe Limited on 12 May 2006 for which he received fees which he retains of Euro 10,000.
107 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Note 8: The annual cash incentives for 2006 may be applied, if participants so choose, to buy shares in March 2007 under the arrangements described in Section 7.4.
The deferred share incentives for 2003 are the values of additional shares released in 2006 if participants chose to buy shares in March 2003 with their annual cash incentive under the arrangements described in Section 10.3.
Note 9: Taxable bene ts and allowances comprise the bene ts in kind values of company cars, healthcare, additional life assurance, concessionary rate mortgages and, where relevant, a contribution towards the cost of providing distant accommodation, away from the Executive Directors primary residential area, as well as the amounts referred to in Note 1.
Note 10: The table does not include any notionally accrued cash incentive amounts relating to the second element of the short term incentive plans described in Section 7.3.
The first cycle of this scheme covers 2006-2007 and there is no entitlement to any accrued cash incentive amount relating to performance in 2006.
10.2 Pension bene ts Details of each Executive Directors pension and lump sum life assurance entitlement are as follows: Table 2 Normal Pension as Lump sum retirement age a % of life assurance final salary as a multiple of salary Peter Cummings 60 55 4 Jo Dawson 60 15 4 Phil Hodkinson 60 15 4 Andy Hornby 60 23 4 Colin Matthew 60 66 4 Notes to Table 2 Note 1: Pension is generally based on retirement from service at normal retirement age age 60 and is based on final salary.
Pension and lump sum life assurance is provided from the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme the Scheme and otherwise from separate arrangements with the Group.
Note 2: On death after retirement or after leaving service, a spouses or dependants pension may be payable.
Childrens bene ts may also be payable.
Executive Directors who have five years service as an Executive Director have a contractual right to retire at age 55 or above with a non-reduced pension and at age 50 or above but below age 55 with a reduced pension.
Pension increases after retirement are a mixture of guaranteed and discretionary.
Scheme provisions vary by individual: at best, the Scheme guarantees to increase pensions in line with the Retail Prices Index, subject to a maximum of 5% p. a. and a minimum of 3% p. a. no minimum for pensionable service after 31 March 2004.
There is an established policy of reviewing pensions on a discretionary basis taking account of increases in the Retail Prices Index.
Allowance is made in transfer values on leaving in respect of the guaranteed and discretionary increases outlined above.
Note 3: The pension entitlements of the Executive Directors included in the Scheme are set out in the table below: Table 3 Name Age Accrued Increase in Transfer Value Increase in Pension accrued 31.12.05 31.12.06 transfer value at pension less Directors 31.12.06 during 2006 contribution 000 p. a.
Note 2: The increase in accrued pension is the accrued pension at 31 December 2006 less the accrued pension at 31 December 2005.
The amount shown in square brackets is calculated on the basis of the disclosure methodology under the Listing Requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
108 Note 3: The transfer values are based on the accrued pensions at 31 December 2005 and at 31 December 2006 and are calculated as at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006 respectively based on factors supplied by the actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited.
The transfer values are the notional lump sums which would have been paid to another pension scheme for the bene t of the Director had he she left service at the respective dates.
It is not possible for a transfer value to be paid directly to the Director personally.
Note 4: The Directors contribution is the personal contribution required, if any, under the terms of the Scheme.
The contributions for Sir James Crosby, Phil Hodkinson and Andy Hornby are aggregates of the personal contributions required under the terms of the Scheme, subject to the statutory limit, together with the amounts of salary they gave up as additional pension contributions as outlined in Note 6 to Table 1a.
Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting bene ts are included in Table 3.
Note 5: For Peter Cummings appointed 1 January 2006 and Jo Dawson appointed 1 May 2006 the opening accrued pensions and transfer values have been calculated at the relevant dates of appointment.
For Sir James Crosby retired 31 July 2006 the closing accrued pension and transfer value have been calculated at the relevant date of retirement.
Note 6: For those members whose bene ts were above the Lifetime Allowance at A-Day, there will be no further service accrual of bene ts and no further Directors contributions.
This applies to all Executive Directors except Jo Dawson, until her bene ts reach the Lifetime Allowance.
Where there is no further service accrual of pension, Executive Directors receive an annual non-pensionable cash allowance of 25% of salary, payable monthly, in lieu.
Note 7: Benny Higgins is not included in the Scheme, and simply receives the cash allowance referred to in Note 6 above.
10.3 Share interests The data in this Section covers all share interests of Directors and not those solely attributable to any shorter period of Directorship.
1 Shares The bene cial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Group are set out below: Table 4 Number Number of shares of shares at 31.12.06 at 31.12.05 01.01.06 or, if later, date of appointment Chairman Dennis Stevenson 267,794 301,006 Executive Directors Peter Cummings 88,791 71,097 Jo Dawson 52,485 51,655 Benny Higgins 311 - Phil Hodkinson 263,094 207,648 Andy Hornby 535,379 496,780 Colin Matthew 356,930 213,445 Non-executive Directors Charles Dunstone 100,000 100,000 Sir Ron Garrick 23,980 23,268 Anthony Hobson 7,500 6,500 Sir Brian Ivory 7,000 7,000 Karen Jones 10,000 - Coline McConville 5,320 5,320 Kate Nealon 12,879 12,879 David Shearer 10,000 10,000 Notes to Table 4 Note 1: Sir Brian Ivory has a non-bene cial interest over 4,500 ordinary shares 2005 - 4,500.
Note 2: Certain Executive Directors and former Executive Directors will or may receive further interests in the ordinary shares of the Group arising out of the short term incentive plans and the long term incentive plans as set out in Tables 5a, 5b, 6a, 6b, 7, 8 and 9.
Note 3: As at 27 February 2007, the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, Karen Jones holds an interest in 200,000 4.875% HBOS Treasury Services plc Notes due December 2007.
Otherwise, no Director had any interest in the preference shares of the Group or in the loan or share capital of any Group undertaking at the beginning or during or at the end of the financial year.
No options to subscribe for shares in other Group companies are granted to Directors of the Group.
109 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Note 4: There has been no change in the share interests as set out in the table between the end of the financial year and 27 February 2007, the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, other than as set out in Notes 4 and 5 to Table 8.
2 Short Term Incentive Plan HBOS Executive Directors All Executive Directors, excluding Benny Higgins, who did not join the Group until 2006, have conditional entitlements to shares arising from sharekicker.
Where the annual incentive for 2002 and or 2003 and or 2004 and or 2005 was taken in shares and these shares are retained in trust for three years, additional shares may also be transferred to the Directors.
Details of these shares are set out below.
The basic and additional shares shown below which vested in 2006 are also included in Table 4.
The additional shares shown below which vested in 2006 are also included in Table 1a.
Note 3: Because the basic shares are the participants entitlements, they are shown net of original income tax and National Insurance liability.
The additional incentive shares are shown in a like manner.
In practice, the value of the grossed-up equivalent additional shares inclusive of associated income tax and National Insurance has been shown in Table 1a at the time of release, as is the case with those released in the year on 21 March 2006.
Those released in 2006 represented the basic shares purchased by the Directors own annual cash incentive in March 2003 plus the additional shares, as shown in Table 1a, arising as a result of sharekicker.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of release was 9.85.
Note 4: Certain former Executive Directors also have entitlements to shares arising from sharekicker.
111 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued 10.3.
3 Long Term Incentive Plan and Special Long Term Bonus Plan HBOS Executive Directors and Chairman Details of the shares which have been conditionally awarded to Executive Directors and the Chairman under the plans are set out below.
The performance conditions relating to these conditional awards are set out in the notes below the table.
This special grant level was at 200% of his salary.
The normal grant level would have been 66.67% of his salary.
The grant is otherwise subject to the same performance conditions as apply to other Executive Directors.
112 The second grant effective from May 2006 for Benny Higgins over 30,425 shares having a value of 300,000 was necessary to facilitate his recruitment in May 2006 and partially re ects value foregone from his previous employment.
This award will vest in May 2009, subject to his continued employment, and is not subject to any performance conditions.
Note 3: Certain former Executive Directors retain interests under the plan.
Details of these interests are set out below.
Note 4: Awards are not pensionable.
Note 5: The performance period for the January 2003 grant ended on 31 December 2005.
HBOSs TSR over the performance period exceeded the weighted average of the comparator group by 5.49% p. a. so 183% of share grants were released to grant recipients.
The shares granted in January 2003 vested on 3 March 2006.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 9.895.
In addition, dividend reinvestment shares have been released to grant recipients as set out in the table and as provided for under the rules of the plans.
The dividend reinvestment shares are the additional shares which would have accrued on the overall share grants actually released had dividends due during the performance period been reinvested in shares.
Note 6: As explained in last years report, for the 2003 grants, all participants could choose to take any shares released after three years based on the three year performance outcome or could continue to participate in the plan for a further two years and take shares at that point based on the better of the three year and the five year performance outcomes.
This design feature sought to motivate participants continually to sustain strong performance or to improve lesser performance for their bene t and the bene t of shareholders.
This feature does not apply for the 2004 grants and does not apply for any grants in subsequent years, to re ect the preference on retesting expressed by most major institutional investors.
With the exception of Peter Cummings, all Executive Directors chose to take their 2003 grants in 2006 based on the three year performance outcome.
Note 7: Subject to performance, the shares granted under the long term plan effective from January 2004 will be released to most individuals shortly after the three year anniversary of the grant date, in March 2007.
Note 8: In the case of the Chairman, it is not possible to include him in the standard Long Term Incentive Plan.
Nor is it possible to include him in such an arrangement where the grant is denominated in shares.
He is therefore included as the sole participant in the Special Long Term Bonus Plan where the grants are awards of notional shares.
He will become entitled to the cash value of any notional shares on vesting but has agreed that this value will, subject to any withholdings for income tax or National Insurance, be applied in acquiring HBOS shares on his behalf.
Note 9: The number of shares to be released to participants is dependent on the Groups TSR over a three year period, compared to the annualised weighted average TSR of a basket of comparator companies over an equivalent period.
For the grant effective from January 2003, a five year period could also apply.
This basket of companies comprises: for the January 2003 and 2004 grants: Abbey National, Aviva, Barclays, Legal & General, Lloyds TSB, Prudential, Royal & Sun Alliance and Royal Bank of Scotland, but with Abbey National replaced by Alliance & Leicester, Bradford & Bingley and Northern Rock with effect from 1 July 2004.
The Committee decided to remove Abbey National from the comparator group, in respect of the January 2003 and 2004 grants, effective from the end of June 2004 immediately before bid activity started : and replace it with Alliance & Leicester, Bradford & Bingley and Northern Rock effective from the start of July 2004: for the January 2005 and subsequent grants: Alliance & Leicester, Aviva, Barclays, Bradford & Bingley, Legal & General, Lloyds TSB, Northern Rock, Prudential, Royal & Sun Alliance and Royal Bank of Scotland.
113 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Shares have been or will be released as follows: Groups relative Amount released as a TSR performance % of share grant 0% p. a. or below 0 3% p. a.
100 6% p. a. or above 200 Intermediate positions are determined by interpolation.
Shown as granted in Tables 6a and 6b.
Note 10: The performance period for the January 2004 grant ended on 31 December 2006.
HBOSs TSR over the performance period exceeded the weighted average of the comparator group by 3.40% p. a. so 113.33% of share grants will be released to grant recipients in March 2007.
In addition, dividend reinvestment shares will be released to grant recipients as provided for under the rules of the plans.
Full details concerning these shares, which will be released to the Chairman and the Executive Directors in March 2007, will be set out in the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
The performance period for the January 2005 grants does not end until 31 December 2007.
So far, HBOSs TSR over the two year elapsed period exceeds the weighted average of the comparator group by 6.26%.
The performance period for the January 2006 grants does not end until 31 December 2008.
So far, HBOSs TSR over the one year elapsed period falls short of the weighted average of the comparator group by 3.17%.
Chart 1 Performance of HBOS for January 2004 awards Source: Datastream This chart 80% shows the Total 70% Shareholder Return TSR 60% performance of HBOS against the weighted 50% average TSR of its 40% comparator group over the 3 year 30% performance period of the 20% January 2004 award.
4 Long Term Incentive Plan - Share Options HBOS Executive Directors are not awarded executive share options.
The share options under the Bank of Scotland plans are exercisable in accordance with the rules of the plans, all performance targets having been satis ed, as set out in last years report.
No further share options have been or can be granted under these plans.
114 Cumulative movement in TSR over performance period Equivalent to 14.2% Details of the options outstanding under the plans in respect of Executive Directors are set out below: Table 7 Option At Granted G, At Share Exercisable effective 31.12.05 Exercised 31.12.06 option from 01.01.06 E or price Lapsed L in year Colin Matthew Oct 96 50,000 50,000 E 2.7367 Oct 97 28,000 28,000 5.3533 Jan 07 - Oct 07 Oct 98 5,223 5,223 5.7433 Jan 07 - Oct 08 Oct 98 29,777 29,777 5.8350 Jan 07 - Oct 08 May 00 40,000 40,000 5.5150 Jan 07 - May 10 Oct 00 40,000 40,000 6.1000 Jan 07 - Oct 10 193,000 143,000 Notes to Table 7 Note 1: On 27 September 2006, Colin Matthew exercised options over 50,000 shares granted effective from October 1996.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of exercise was 10.58.
Note 2: On 23 March 2006, George Mitchell, who retired as an Executive Director on 31 December 2005, exercised options over 50,000, 35,000, 40,000, 45,000 and 50,000 shares granted effective from October 1996, October 1997, October 1998, May 2000 and October 2000, respectively.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of exercise was 9.86.
He has no remaining options under the plan.
Note 3: Details of the market price of the Groups ordinary shares during 2006 are given in Section 10.3.
Note 4: Jo Dawson has share options under the HBOS all-employee plan which were granted before she was appointed an Executive Director or to Level 9 or Level 8.
She has options over 3,727 shares granted effective from April 2002 at an option price of 7.512.
These are exercisable between 1 January 2007 and 14 April 2008.
There are no performance conditions.
5 Sharesave Plan The sharesave plan is available to all UK based Group colleagues.
The plan allows colleagues to save a xed amount of money on a monthly basis.
At the end of a pre-determined period, of three, five or seven years, colleagues have the right, if they so choose, to use the funds accumulated to purchase shares in the Group at a xed price, based on a market price or an average market price determined around the invitation date and discounted by up to 20%.
Certain Executive Directors have taken up membership of the plan and the projected numbers of shares which they would be entitled to purchase at the end of the relevant pre-determined periods are set out below: Table 8 Option At Granted G, At Exercisable effective 31.12.05 Exercised 31.12.06 from 01.01.06 E or Lapsed L in year Peter Cummings Oct 01 600 600 Jan 07 Jun 07 Sep 02 549 549 Jan 08 Jun 08 Sep 04 452 452 Jan 08 Jun 08 Sep 05 791 791 Jan 11 Jun 11 Sep 06 238 G 238 Jan 10 Jun 10 2,392 2,630 Jo Dawson Sep 03 1,607 1.607 Jan 07 Jun 07 Sep 06 2,065 G 2,065 Jan 12 - Jun 12 1,607 3,672 Benny Higgins Sep 06 2,065 G 2,065 Jan 12 Jun 12 2,065 Phil Hodkinson Sep 02 2,970 2,970 Jan 10 - Jun 10 2,970 2,970 Andy Hornby Sep 03 1,607 1,607 Jan 07 Jun 07 Sep 06 2,216 G 2,216 Jan 14 Jun 14 1,607 3,823 115 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Notes to Table 8 Note 1: Options under these plans were granted using market prices around the dates of the invitations, discounted by 20%, as follows: Effective date of grant Share option price Oct 01 5.62 Sep 02 5.975 Sep 03 5.74 Sep 04 5.443 Sep 05 6.912 Sep 06 7.928 Note 2: On 28 March 2006, George Mitchell, who retired as an Executive Director on 31 December 2005, exercised options over 603 shares granted effective from September 2004.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of exercise was 9.665.
Note 3: On 28 December 2006, Sir James Crosby, who retired as an Executive Director on 31 July 2006, exercised options over 1,911 shares granted effective from September 2002.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of exercise was 11.37.
Note 4: On 5 January 2007, Andy Hornby exercised options over 1,607 shares granted effective from September 2003.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of exercise was 11.42.
Note 5: On 5 January 2007, Peter Cummings exercised options over 600 shares granted effective from October 2001.
Note 6: Details of the market price of the Groups ordinary shares during 2006 are given in Section 10.3.
6 Free Share Plan The free share plan is available to most Group colleagues.
The plan awards colleagues free shares on an annual basis.
At the end of three years, shares are transferable to colleagues, subject to the participants still being in the Groups employment at that time or earlier if they are a qualifying leaver.
Shares must be held in trust for five years to qualify for full tax and National Insurance bene ts.
All Executive Directors have taken up membership of the plan and the projected number of shares which they would be entitled to at the end of the relevant period is set out below: Table 9 Award At Awarded A, Dividend At Releasable effective 31.12.05 Released R reinvestment 31.12.06 from 01.01.06 or Forfeit F shares acquired in year in year Peter Cummings Aug 05 333 14 347 Aug 08 Aug 06 308 A 3 311 Aug 09 333 658 Jo Dawson Aug 05 333 14 347 Aug 08 Aug 06 308 A 3 311 Aug 09 333 658 Benny Higgins Aug 06 308 A 3 311 Aug 09 311 Andy Hornby Aug 05 333 14 347 Aug 08 Aug 06 308 A 3 311 Aug 09 333 658 Phil Hodkinson Aug 05 333 14 347 Aug 08 Aug 06 308 A 3 311 Aug 09 333 658 Colin Matthew Aug 05 333 14 347 Aug 08 Aug 06 308 A 3 311 Aug 09 333 658 116 Notes to Table 9 Note 1: Shares were awarded at 9.10 and 9.74 in August 2005 and August 2006, respectively, the middle market prices of the Groups ordinary shares on the days immediately preceding the dates of the awards.
Note 2: Participants in this plan have an interest in dividends on the free shares in the form of dividend shares as and when they become due.
Dividends were paid on 15 May 2006 and 9 October 2006 and were reinvested in shares.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on these dates were 9.45 and 10.83, respectively.
Dividend reinvestment shares are required to be held for three years from the dates of payment.
Note 3: On 21 February 2006, 333 shares were released from the trust on behalf of George Mitchell, who retired as an Executive Director on 31 December 2005.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of release was 10.36.
He has no remaining shares under the plan.
Note 4: On 29 December 2006, 342 shares were released from the trust on behalf of Sir James Crosby, who retired as an Executive Director on 31 July 2006.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of release was 11.32.
Note 5: Details of the market price of the Groups ordinary shares during 2006 are given in Section 10.3.
7 Interest in Shares under Trusts Certain Executive Directors, together with certain other colleagues, are deemed to have or have had an interest or a potential interest as potential discretionary bene ciaries under: the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
As such, they were each treated as at 31 December 2006 as being interested in the 5,405,010 ordinary shares 31 December 2005 276,879 ordinary shares held by the trustees of these Trusts.
The shares held in the Trusts will be used to satisfy share awards under short term and long term incentive plans.
The relevant Executive Directors speci c individual interests are shown in Tables 5a, 5b, 6a and 6b: the Groups Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust.
As such, they were each treated as at 31 December 2006 as being interested in the 1,697,350 ordinary shares 31 December 2005 3,167,458 ordinary shares held by the trustee of this Trust.
The shares held in the Trust will be used to satisfy entitlements of colleagues arising on the exercise of options under the Sharesave Plan.
The relevant Executive Directors speci c individual interests are shown in Table 8: and the Groups Share Incentive Plan Trust.
As such, they were each treated as at 31 December 2006 as being interested in the 12,964,303 ordinary shares 31 December 2005 7,129,501 held by the trustees of this Trust.
The shares held in the Trust will be used to satisfy share awards under the Free Share Plan.
The relevant Executive Directors speci c individual interests are shown in Table 9.
All of the Groups share plans empower new issue shares to be allotted to satisfy share requirements.
The Groups past practice has generally been to purchase shares in the market in relation to the plans described in Sections 10.3.
6 and to issue new shares in relation to the plans described in Sections 10.3.
5 and the Groups all-employee share option plan.
This practice was reviewed in 2006, and as a consequence, purchased shares were also used to a large extent to satisfy awards in relation to the plan described in Section 10.3.
New issue shares were used to satisfy awards made under the plan described in Section 10.3.
The method by which share plan requirements are satis ed will again be reviewed in 2007 and any changes to the 2006 practice will be set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
8 General The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 was 11.32.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 9.93.
The range during the year was 8.95 to 11.37.
Save as disclosed in Section 10.3.
5 of this Report, there has been no change in the Directors interests in shares or options granted by the Group between the end of the financial year and 27 February 2007, the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
9 Statutory Performance Graph The following graph illustrates the Groups TSR performance compared to that of a broad equity market index over 2002-2006.
As HBOS has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 since inception and as performance against sector companies is illustrated in Chart 2, the Group believes that the FTSE 100 is a suitable comparator index to use for the purposes of this graph to satisfy regulatory requirements.
Chart 2 Total shareholder return Source: Datastream 180 This chart shows that the value of 170 100 invested in HBOS on 31 160 December 2001 had increased 150 to 167 by 31 140 December 2006 compared with 130 the value of 100 invested in the 120 FTSE 100 Index from the same 110 date which had increased to 100 141.
To produce 90 a fair value each point is a 80 30 day average of the return 70 index.
60 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 FTSE 100 Index HBOS Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Sir Brian Ivory Chair, Remuneration Committee 27 February 2007 117 Value Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Appendix Remuneration in HBOS generally Principal features This section outlines the structure of remuneration in HBOS for the vast majority of colleagues.
Each role in HBOS is positioned in one of ten levels, 1-9, and the Executive Directors.
The level of a role is determined by the knowledge required to do it, the challenge of delivering the required job outputs and the accountability which the role carries.
The level then, in broad terms, determines the salary range which can apply for the role: the short term incentive STI and long term incentive LTI structures: and the range of bene t and product offerings available.
Details of the remuneration arrangements which apply to those in Levels 8 and 9 and Executive Directors are given in the main body of the report.
The table below sets out the number of colleagues and full-time equivalents FTE in other levels and the typical inter-quartile full-time equivalent salary range applying to colleagues in each such level.
Different ranges apply to different groups of colleagues depending on role specialism and geographic location.
Remuneration is, for all colleagues, generally made up of four elements, namely salary, short term incentive schemes, long term incentive schemes and bene ts.
HBOS adopts a total reward approach so that colleagues appreciate the totality, the exibility and the performance drivers of their reward package.
Salary HBOS salary policy is to manage salaries in aggregate, by Level, around the appropriate market median.
Whilst finance sector generic medians establish baseline positions, businesses benchmark according to role specialism and to geographic location.
The alignment of practice with policy is one we aspire to deliver by matching average salaries with the market median position, whilst managing actual salaries to re ect personal skills, experience, performance and business vulnerability.
Short term schemes HBOS has short term incentives which are annual, operating plan aligned, generally team based and built around line of sight issues.
Participants know that these incentives give a real chance of a zero outcome and, equally, a real chance of a maximum outcome which, in cash terms, may be equivalent to 20% of salary or more.
The cash incentive levels for 2007 are generally as follows: Level Incentive as % of Salary Minimum Target Maximum 1-4 0 10-12 20-30 5 0 17.5 35 6 0 25 50 7 0 32.5 48.75 Long term schemes Almost every colleague in HBOS enjoys four for Level 7, five long term incentive propositions, each share-based.
Colleagues in Level 1 - 6 who choose to buy shares with their net cash STI get 50% more shares after three years provided they remain in the service of the Group or rank as a qualifying leaver.
For colleagues in Level 7, their sharekicker opportunity will become performance based, and hence at risk, and will be determined by EPS performance, resulting in between 0% and 200% more shares as described in Section 7.4.
Colleagues who choose to save up to 3,000 p. a. by monthly instalments, are given the option, at the end of three, five or seven years, to buy shares based on the share price around the invitation date, discounted by up to 20%.
Thirdly, share options free shares.
In 2002, 2003 and 2004, colleagues were given share options over 20% of salary: and these can be crystallised after a minimum of three and a maximum of six years.
In 2005 and 2006, colleagues were given free shares based on 5% of salary maximum 3,000 p. a. : and these will crystallise after a minimum of three years.
From 2007, colleagues who choose to buy shares from pre-tax salary can do so, utilising up to 1,500 p. a. or 10% of basic salary, whichever is the lesser.
If the shares are retained in trust for five years or more, provided the colleague remains in the service of the Group or ranks as a qualifying leaver, they can be removed tax free.
Colleagues in Level 7 were given share grants over 33.33% of salary in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006.
The same arrangements will apply in 2007.
The level of grant released is conditional on relative TSR performance against a weighted finance sector basket, over a three year period with no grant released for performance which matches or is worse than the average and with twice the grant released for outperformance of 6% p. a. or more intermediate positions being determined by interpolation, as described in Section 7.4.
Bene ts Our key bene ts are pensions, paid leave, cars, healthcare and mortgage arrangements.
We increasingly seek to package them as an overall exible bene ts proposition and a comprehensive product offering.
Some existing colleagues have fide ned bene t pension arrangements.
Some existing colleagues have, and all new colleagues are eligible for, fide ned contribution pension arrangements.
Both include death and ill health bene ts.
Affected colleagues receive an annual non-pensionable cash allowance, payable monthly, in lieu of such service related pension accrual or money purchase pension contributions.
