16 corporate governance STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE AND THE APPLICATION OF ITS PRINCIPLES The Company has, throughout the 15-month financial period ended 30 June 2006, complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code except in two respects, set out below.
Since joining the FTSE 250 during the latter part of 2005 the Company has not had an equal number of independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
Prior to entering the FTSE 250 the Company did not need to meet this requirement.
However the Board recognised the importance of this provision and intends to appoint Michael OLeary as an independent Non-Executive Director before the end of the year.
By June 2006 Alistair Mathers had served as a Non-Executive Director for more than nine years.
The Company had decided that he should remain in his post as Chairman of the Audit Committee whilst the Company was effecting a change in its financial year end but is currently seeking a replacement.
The Company has applied both the main and supporting principles of Section 1 of the Code and an explanation of how these principles have been applied is set out both below and in the Directors remuneration report and the corporate social responsibility report.
THE BOARD The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the 15-month period under review.
There was full attendance at all those meetings save that Peter Holding missed one meeting due to illness.
Board decisions are generally on matters of strategy, policy, people and budgets.
Decisions on the day to day management of the Company are delegated to an Operating Board comprising Executive Directors and senior mangers.
Each Director receives detailed information on matters to be discussed well in advance of each meeting to ensure that there is a full debate at Board level and, in particular so that the Non-Executive Directors can contribute fully, as required by the Code.
The Board has formally reserved specific matters to itself for determination and has approved terms of reference for all other Board committees: these are available on request and are published on the Companys web site at www.
The Non-Executive Directors terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection as required by the Code.
There is a formal policy in place to ensure that all directors have access to independent professional advice, if they have the need to seek it.
CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated.
The division of responsibilities is clearly defined in writing and has been approved by the Board.
Whilst Mark Jackson has been Chief Executive throughout the period under review, Rodney Baker-Bates was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 2 December 2005 as a consequence of Michael Symons retirement on 10 June 2005.
This appointment followed an interim arrangement during which time the Chairman role was undertaken by Richard Burrell.
Rodney Baker-Bates is also currently a Consultant to the Board of C. Hoare & Co and holds a number of other Chairmanships, which include Westbury Property Fund Limited, Solutions plc and First Assist Group.
He has recently been appointed as Non-Executive Director to the Britannia Building Society.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Roger Taylor, the Senior Independent Director, meet regularly in the absence of Executive Directors.
BOARD BALANCE Following Michael Symons retirement in June 2005 and Rodney Baker-Bates appointment, during the period under review, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, four full-time Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
All three Non-Executive Directors, R J Taylor, A H Mathers and RC M Burrell were viewed as independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Richard Burrell was Chief Executive of Berrington Fund Management Limited Berrington which, as reported last year, was the appointed investment manager to the Medical Property Investment Fund Limited MPIF and the Westbury Property Fund Limited.
In May 2006, MPIF acquired Berrington and Richard Burrell became chief executive of MPIF.
Mark Jackson is the Non-Executive Chairman of MPIF.
Notwithstanding this, the Board, having reviewed the position, remains of the opinion that Richard Burrell continues to exercise independent judgement.
After the Company entered the FTSE 250 it was required by Code provision A.
3.2 to have an equal number of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company decided to complete the appointment of a new Chairman before recruiting an additional Non-Executive.
After the appointment of the Chairman, other factors militated against making immediately another, Non-Executive appointment.
This will be resolved by appointment of Michael OLeary referred to above.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Board appointments and succession planning is the responsibility of the Nominations Committee which currently comprises the Chairman who chairs this Committee, the three Non-Executive Directors, R J Taylor, A H Mathers and R C M Burrell and the Chief Executive.
During the period under review the Committee met on four occasions and there was full attendance at each meeting.
Michael Symons chaired the Committee until his resignation on 10 June 2005.
The Chairman was appointed to the Committe in December 2005.
The Committee, with the assistance of external recruitment consultants, led the recruitment process for the current Chairman, as well as the appointment of an additional Non-Executive.
It is currently seeking a replacement for Alistair Mathers who will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director during 2007.
17 corporate governance continued PERFORMANCE EVALUATION A Board evaluation is currently being conducted by an external consultant and is due to be completed by the end of 2006.
The Board intends that a regular performance evaluation will be undertaken.
RE-ELECTION All Directors must submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Nomination Committee has recommended to the Board that David Robertson, should be nominated for re-election and that Rodney Baker-Bates, who was appointed to the Board during the period under review and Michael OLeary who will be appointed to the Board on 1 October 2006 should be nominated for election.
The biographies of the Directors submitted for re-election are on page 8.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee comprising exclusively Non-Executive Directors, R J Taylor Committee Chairman, A H Mathers and R C M Burrell met on ten occasions during the 15-month period under review.
Richard Burrell was unable to attend two of the meetings, otherwise there was full attendance.
The Committees role is to determine remuneration packages for Executive Directors to enable the Group to attract, retain and motivate Executives of the necessary calibre without paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Further information is given in the Directors Remuneration Report and other parts of this Annual Report & Statement.
A public statement regarding the use of remuneration consultants is available on the Companys web site at www.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for the whole Board.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company is committed to maintaining good relations with all its shareholders through the provision of regular Interim and Annual Reports, other trading statements and the Annual General Meeting.
The Company also arranges individual and Group meetings with its institutional shareholders.
The views of analysts, brokers and major shareholders are relayed to the Board through the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Company holds its Annual General Meeting once a year in Bath providing an opportunity for all shareholders and particularly private investors to ask questions of the Board.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board has ultimate responsibility for both the preparation of Accounts and the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and its prospects and present price sensitive information in an appropriate way.
The Company publishes interim reports two this year due to the 15-month period covered so the Companys financial position can be monitored regularly by shareholders.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and has during the period covered by this report applied principle C2 of the Combined Code by maintaining a continuous process for identifying, evaluating, reporting and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the period of the review and to the date of signing the annual report and accounts.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Turnbull Report.
In accordance with provision C2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
These controls include the financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems that have been in operation during this financial period.
The Board confirms that the risk management processes in operation are in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, which links the regular reviewing of reports on internal control to the management of strategic and operational risks that are significant and relevant to the achievement of business objectives.
The Board, in seeking to achieve the Groups business objectives, cannot offer an absolute guarantee that the application of a risk management system will overcome, eliminate or mitigate all significant risks.
However, by linking an established risk-management system, which seeks in quantitative terms to identify the potential impact a risk may have on the Group to relevant business objectives, the Board is able to provide a reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the financial year under review the primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing operational risks related to internal processes, systems and staff lies with the Groups senior managers immediately below Board level.
These managers submit monthly risk management reports to the Operating Board, which is comprised of those senior managers and the Executive Directors.
Minutes of Operating Board meetings and copies of all risk reports are sent to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The management and monitoring of strategic risks remains the sole responsibility of the Board.
Through its oversight role the Groups Risk Committee has continued to have a positive and contributory role in the management of risk.
The Board has performed a specific evaluation of the Groups system of internal controls for the purpose of this report.
This evaluation considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by this report.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee have again assisted the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
18 corporate governance continued INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED In the period under review, the Group has not had any significant problems that required specific disclosure in the annual report and accounts so has not had to apply any specific processes to deal with material internal control issues that might arise from such disclosure.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS The Audit Committee comprising A H Mathers chartered accountant and committee chairman, R J Taylor and R C M Burrell met five times in the year under review and save one meeting which Roger Taylor was unable to attend, there was full attendance on each occasion.
The Committee Chairman is the required, financially qualified member of this committee.
Further details about, and the qualifications of, the Committee Chairman and the other committee members can be found in their biographies elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Board has, through the Audit Committee, established formal and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, the review of formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, internal control and external auditing.
As required by its terms of reference the Committee has during the period under review, considered the Groups Risk Management activities as a whole and the monitoring of the internal audit function in addition to the financial aspects of internal control.
It has reviewed the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors and has approved their fees.
The Committee has also reviewed the Companys arrangements to enable employees to raise confidentially, concerns about possible improprieties.
It has reviewed the interim and final results published in respect of the period under review and has considered its own effectiveness.
The Committee has reviewed the Internal Auditors work for the period under review and approved its current programme of work.
The Committee receives reports written and in person from Executive Directors, senior managers and representatives of the Risk Committee to discharge its responsibilities.
It also receives reports from and meets in the absence of management external and internal auditors.
It sets and reviews the programme of work to be undertaken by the Internal Auditor.
During the period under review the Company recruited from BMW UK a full-time internal Auditor, replacing the external consultant who previously undertook this role.
The Company has a formal policy regarding the use of Auditors for non-audit work.
By Order of the Board Alistair Mathers Chairman Audit Committee 8 September 2006
