HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors Page Directors Corporate Governance Report...................... 248 S K Green, Group Chairman Directors....................................................... 248 Age 58.
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Group Managing Directors........................... 251 North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Private Group General Managers............................. 252 Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
A Director of The Board................................................. 254 HSBC France and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Group Treasurer from Corporate governance codes.................... 257 1992 to 1998.
Executive Director, Corporate, Board committees..................................... 259 Investment Banking and Markets from 1998 to 2003.
An executive Director of John Swire & Sons Remuneration policy.................................. 266 Limited and a Director of Swire Pacific Limited.
A Employee share plans............................... 267 non-executive Director since 1990 and a nonSubsidiary company share plans............... 271 executive Deputy Chairman since 1992.
A member of the Nomination Committee.
A non-executive Employee compensation and benefits....... 275 Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporate responsibility............................... 276 Corporation Limited from 1981 to 1996.
A Patron of Investing in sustainability......................... 276 the UK Foundation of the University of British Community involvement............................ 277 Columbia, a registered charity.
A former Senior Member of the Supplier payment policy........................... 277 Hong Kong Executive Council and Legislative Council.
A non-executive Director since 1998 and a Dividends for 2007................................... 278 non-executive Deputy Chairman since 2001.
Communication with shareholders........... 278 Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and of the Notifiable interests in share capital.......... 278 Nomination Committee.
From the conclusion of the Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares.......... 279 Annual General Meeting in 2007, will cease to be Annual General Meeting........................... 279 the senior independent non-executive Director, a member and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Nomination Corporate Governance Report Committee.
A non-executive Director of Macsteel The information set out on pages 248 to 290 and Global BV.
Former Chairman of Corus Group plc information incorporated by reference constitutes the and a former member of the Court of the Bank of Corporate Governance Report of HSBC Holdings.
M F Geoghegan, CBE, Group Chief Executive Age 53.
Chairman of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. and HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Bank Canada.
A Director and, since 6 March 2006, Deputy Chairman of HSBC Bank plc.
A Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC France, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC National Bank USA.
President of HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo from 1997 to 2003 248 and responsible for all of HSBCs business R A Fairhead throughout South America from 2000 to 2003.
Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Executive of HSBC Bank plc from 2004 to 6 March Financial Times Group Limited and a Director of 2006.
A non-executive Director and Chairman of Pearson plc.
member, and from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2007, Chairman of the Group The Rt Hon the Lord Butler of Brockwell, Audit Committee.
A non-executive Director of The KG, GCB, CVO Economist Newspaper Limited.
Former Executive executive Director since 1998.
Chairman of the Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Corporate Responsibility Committee and the HSBC Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
A member of the Nomination Committee until the conclusion of the D J Flint, CBE, Group Finance Director Annual General Meeting in 2007.
Joined HSBC as an executive Director in Director of Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
Non-executive Chairman of HSBC Finance member of the International Advisory Board of Corporation.
A non-executive Director of BP p. l. c. Marsh McLennan Inc. Chaired the UK Government and a member of the Consultative Committee of the Review of Intelligence on Weapons of Mass Large Business Advisory Board of HM Revenue & Destruction in 2004.
Secretary of the Cabinet and Customs.
Chaired the Financial Reporting Councils Head of the Home Civil Service in the United review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Served on the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory Council of the International R K F Chien, CBE Accounting Standards Board from 2001 to 2004. retiring on 25 May 2007 A former partner in KPMG.
Chairman of CDC Corporation and of its subsidiary, China.
com Inc. A non-executive Director W K L Fung, OBE since 1998.
A member of the Group Audit Age 58.
Group Managing Director of Li & Fung Committee.
Non-executive Chairman of HSBC Limited.
A Private Equity Asia Limited and a non-executive member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking and, until the conclusion of the Annual General Corporation Limited since 1997.
Non-executive Meeting in 2007, of the Remuneration Committee.
A Chairman of MTR Corporation Limited and a nonnon-executive Director and, since May 2005, Deputy executive Director of Convenience Retail Asia Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Limited, Inchcape plc, VTech Holdings Limited and Corporation Limited.
A non-executive Director of The Wharf Holdings Limited.
CLP Holdings Limited, Integrated Distribution Services Group Limited, Convenience Retail Asia J D Coombe Limited, Shui On Land Limited and VTech Holdings Age 61.
Chairman of Hogg Robinson plc.
A member of the Hong Kong Trade executive Director since March 2005.
A former non-executive the Group Audit Committee and, since 1 June 2006, Director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. a member of the Remuneration Committee.
A nonFormer Chairman of the Hong Kong General executive Director of Home Retail Group plc and a Chamber of Commerce, the Hong Kong Exporters member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG.
A Association and the Hong Kong Committee for the member of The Code Committee of the Panel on Pacific Economic Co-operation Council.
A trustee of the Royal Academy Trust.
Former executive Director and S Hintze Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
A retiring on 25 May 2007 former Chairman of The Hundred Group of Finance Age 62.
Former Chief Operating Officer of Barilla Directors and a former member of the Accounting S. P. A.
member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and of the Remuneration Committee.
A nonexecutive Director of Premier Foods plc.
A former non-executive Director of Safeway plc and the Society of Genealogists, a registered charity.
A 249 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance Biographies Directors Senior management former Senior Vice President of Nestl S. A.
With General Meeting in 2007, a member of the Group Mars Incorporated from 1972 to 1993, latterly as Audit Committee.
A Member of the Advisory Board Executive Vice President of M&M Mars in New of the East Asia Institute and of the Investment Jersey.
A Member of The Wellcome Trust Investment Committee.
Founder of J W J Hughes-Hallett Newton Investment Management, from which he retired in 2002.
Chairman of John Swire & Sons Limited.
A S M Robertson member of the Group Audit Committee since 1 June 2006 and, from the conclusion of the Annual Age 66.
Non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce General Meeting in 2007, a member of the Group plc and the founder member of Simon Nomination Committee.
A non-executive Director of Robertson Associates LLP.
A non-executive The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Director since 3 January 2006.
From the conclusion Limited from 1999 to 2004.
A non-executive of the Annual General Meeting in 2007, to be the Director and formerly Chairman of Cathay Pacific senior independent non-executive Director and a Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited.
A trustee of the executive Director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, Dulwich Picture Gallery, the Hong Kong Maritime The Economist Newspaper Limited and The Royal Museum and the Esme Fairbairn Foundation.
A Opera House Covent Garden Limited.
Chairman of member of the London School of Oriental and Trustees of the Royal Academy Trust and the Ernest African Studies Governing Body.
A trustee of the Eden Project and of the Royal Opera House Endowment Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, KCMG Fund.
A former Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International.
Former Chairman of Dresdner Age 66.
Chairman of Anglo American plc.
A nonKleinwort Benson and a former non-executive executive Director since 2001.
Chairman of the Director of Inchcape plc, Invensys plc and the Remuneration Committee and a member of the London Stock Exchange.
A nonexecutive Director of Accenture Limited, a Governor H Sohmen, OBE of Nuffield Hospitals and President of the Liverpool retiring on 25 May 2007 School of Tropical Medicine.
Chairman of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS and the Age 67.
Chairman of Bergesen Worldwide Limited, Global Compact Foundation.
A former Director and Bergesen Worldwide Offshore Limited and Chairman of The Shell Transport and Trading Bergesen Worldwide Gas ASA.
Chairman and Company, plc and former Chairman of the President of BW Corporation Limited formerly Committee of Managing Directors of the Royal World-Wide Shipping Group Limited.
A nonDutch Shell Group of Companies.
A non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking G Morgan Corporation Limited from 1984 to 2005 and Deputy Chairman from 1996 to May 2005.
A non-executive Director since 1 October Chairman of The International Tanker Owners 2006 and, from the conclusion of the Annual General Pollution Federation Limited.
Meeting in 2007, a member of the Remuneration Committee.
A Director of SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. Sir Brian Williamson, CBE and Alcan Inc. A member of the Board of Trustees of The Fraser Institute and the Energy Advisory Age 62.
Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc.
A member and, Director of HSBC Bank Canada until 18 April 2006. from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Founding President and Chief Executive Officer of in 2007, Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
A EnCana Corporation until December 2005 and Vice non-executive Director of Resolution plc.
A member Chairman from December 2005 to 24 October 2006. of the Supervisory Board of Euronext NV.
A senior adviser to Fleming Family and Partners.
Former S W Newton Chairman of London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, Gerrard Group plc and Age 65.
Chairman of The Real Return Group Resolution Life Group Limited.
A non-executive Director since executive Director of the Financial Services 2002 and, from the conclusion of the Annual Authority and of the Court of The Bank of Ireland.
250 A A Flockhart Adviser to the Board Age 55.
President and Group Managing Director, D J Shaw Latin America and the Caribbean.
An Adviser to the Board since 1998.
A partner in Norton Rose from 1973 to HSBC in 1974.
A Director of The Bank of Bermuda Limited, and Chief Executive Officer, Mexico in 2002.
Chief HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA and, Executive Officer HSBC Thailand from 1992 to since May 2006, a non-executive Director of Shui 1994.
Managing Director of The Saudi British Bank On Land Limited.
from 1997 to 1999 and Senior Executive VicePresident, Commercial Banking, HSBC Bank USA Secretary Inc. from 1999 to 2002.
Head of Corporate, Investment Banking and Group General Manager on 1 October 2006.
Joined Markets and Group Investment Businesses.
Company Secretary of HSBC Managing Director since 2004.
Director of HSBC Holdings plc since 1990.
Corporation Secretary of Bank plc, HSBC USA Inc. and The Hongkong and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Joined Limited from 1986 to 1992 and Company Secretary HSBC in 1980.
Appointed a Group General Manager of HSBC Bank plc from 1994 to 1996. in 2000.
Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific from 1996 to 2002, Head of Global Group Managing Directors Markets from 2002 to 2003, and Co-Head of Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets from C C R Bannister 2003 to May 2006.
A Group Managing Director since 1 August 2006.
Chairman of HSBC Insurance Managing Director since 26 May 2006 and Holdings Limited since November 2006.
Deputy Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited since Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Securities USA 24 July 2006.
Appointed a Inc. from 1996 to 1998 and Chief Executive Officer, Group General Manager in 2003.
Managing Director Group Private Banking from 1998 to 2006. of The Saudi British Bank from 1999 to 2003.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of V H C Cheng, OBE HSBC Bank Middle East Limited from 2003 to Age 58.
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai May 2006.
A Group Managing Director since May 2005.
D D J John Appointed a Group General Manager in 1995.
Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc.
A Group Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Managing Director since 6 March 2006.
Joined Hang Seng Bank Limited from 1998 to 2005.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2000.
Deputy Chairman and C-H Filippi Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Bank Malaysia Age 54.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Berhad from 1999 to 2002.
Chief Operating Officer HSBC France.
A Group Managing Director since of HSBC Bank plc from 2003 to May 2005 and 2004.
A Director of HSBC Bank plc.
A member of Deputy Chief Executive from May 2005 to the Supervisory Board of HSBC Trinkaus & 6 March 2006.
Joined HSBC France in 1987 having previously held senior appointments in the French Y A Nasr civil service.
Appointed a Group General Manager in Age 52.
Global Head of Corporate and Institutional Investments since 1 October 2006.
A Director of Banking from 2001 to 2004.
HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1998.
President and Chief Executive Officer of 251 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors Senior management HSBC Bank Canada from 1997 to 1999.
President T M Detelich and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA Inc. and Age 50.
President, Consumer and Mortgage HSBC Bank USA from 1999 to 2003.
President, Lending, HSBC Finance Corporation.
Joined HSBC HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo from 2005 Finance Corporation in 1976.
Group General Managers J D Garner E Alonso Age 37.
Group General Manager, Personal Financial Services and Direct Businesses, HSBC Bank plc.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Joined HSBC in 2004.
Appointed a Group General HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
Appointed a Group General Manager on 1 October 2006.
President and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Bank Canada.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Turkey.
Appointed a Group General Manager in August Joined HSBC in 1990.
Group General Manager and Group Chief Age 58.
Group General Manager, Global e-business.
Joined HSBC Finance Joined HSBC in 1999.
Appointed a Group General Corporation in 1989.
Group General Manager, Legal and Age 48.
Appointed a Group General Group General Manager in 1998.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Age 49.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC India.
Officer, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited.
Appointed a Group General HSBC in 1981.
Appointed a Group General Manager Manager on 1 October 2006. in 2004.
Group General Manager, Internal Audit.
Group General Manager, Human Resources.
Appointed a Group General Joined HSBC in 1975.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2002.
Head of Corporate, Investment Banking and Age 53.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Markets, USA.
President and Chief Executive Director, HSBC Bank plc.
Officer, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. and HSBC USA Appointed a Group General Manager in May 2005.
Appointed a Group General Manager in August 2005.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive M Leung Officer, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad.
Appointed a Group General Manager Joined HSBC in 1978.
Group General Manager and Head of Age 52.
Group General Manager, Credit and Risk.
Appointed a Group General Appointed a Group General Manager on Manager in 2003.
Chief Executive Officer, The Hongkong and Age 48.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Finance Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Chairman, Corporation and Chief Operating Officer, HSBC Hang Seng Bank Limited.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Mexico.
Chief Executive Officer, Group Private Manager in 2003.
Appointed a Group General Manager on 1 November 2006.
Executive Director, Hong Kong and W G Menezes Mainland China, The Hongkong and Shanghai Age 61.
Group Executive, Card Services, HSBC Banking Corporation Limited.
Joined HSBC in Finance Corporation.
Appointed a Group General Manager Appointed a Group General Manager on 1 October in April 2005.
Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director K Newman Age 49.
Senior Executive Vice President, Personal Financial Services, HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive, Hang Seng Bank Limited and Director, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Group General Manager, Chief Executive Officer, Africa.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2003.
253 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board substantial change in balance sheet management Board of Directors policy.
The Board The Directors who served during the year were The objective of the management structures within Sir John Bond, Lord Butler, R K F Chien, HSBC, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC J D Coombe, Baroness Dunn, R A Fairhead, Holdings and led by the Group Chairman, is to D J Flint, W K L Fung, M F Geoghegan, S K Green, deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
S Hintze, J W J Hughes-Hallett, A W Jebson, Sir Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is John Kemp-Welch, Sir Brian Moffat, Sir Mark delegated to the Group Management Board under the Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, S W Newton, leadership of the Group Chief Executive.
S M Robertson, H Sohmen and Sir Brian Williamson.
HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board of Directors.
The authority of each Director is exercised Sir John Bond, A W Jebson and Sir John Kempin Board Meetings where the Board acts collectively Welch retired as Directors at the conclusion of the as a unit.
At 5 March 2007 the Board comprises the Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2006.
Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group S M Robertson was appointed a Director on Finance Director and 15 non-executive Directors.
3 January 2006, G Morgan was appointed a Director The names and brief biographical particulars of the on 1 October 2006 and J F Gil Daz was appointed a Directors are listed on pages 248 to 250.
The Group Director on 2 January 2007 and resigned on 5 March Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group 2007.
Finance Director are employees who carry out The Board of Directors meets regularly and executive functions in HSBC in addition to their Directors receive information between meetings duties as Directors.
Non-executive Directors are not about the activities of committees and developments HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily in HSBCs business.
Non-executive Directors bring an external perspective, Seven Board meetings were held during 2006. constructively challenge and help develop proposals Lord Butler, R K F Chien, J D Coombe, Baroness on strategy, scrutinise the performance of Dunn, D J Flint, M F Geoghegan, S K Green, management in meeting agreed goals and objectives S Hintze, Sir Brian Moffat, S M Robertson, and monitor the reporting of performance.
The nonH Sohmen and Sir Brian Williamson attended all of executive Directors have a wealth of experience the Board meetings.
R A Fairhead, W K L Fung, across a number of industries and business sectors, J W J Hughes-Hallett, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart and including the leadership of large, complex S W Newton attended six of the Board meetings.
The roles of non-executive John Bond and A W Jebson attended the four Board Directors as members of Board committees are set meetings held before they ceased to be Directors.
It is estimated that nonJohn Kemp-Welch attended three of the four Board executive Directors spend 24 days per annum on meetings held before he ceased to be a Director.
HSBC business after an induction phase, with G Morgan attended the one Board meeting held Committee members devoting significant additional following his appointment.
During 2006, the non-executive Directors and The Board sets the strategy for HSBC through the Group Chairman met twice without the presence the five-year strategic plan and approves the annual of the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance operating plans presented by management for the Director.
In addition, the non-executive Directors achievement of the strategic objectives.
The annual met once without Sir John Bond when he was Group operating plans ensure the efficient disposition of Chairman to discuss his performance and on one HSBCs resources for the achievement of these other occasion without S K Green, following his objectives.
The Board delegates the management and appointment as Group Chairman.
day-to-day running of HSBC to the Group In addition to the meetings of the principal Management Board but retains to itself approval of Committees referred to in the following pages, certain matters including annual plans and eleven other meetings of Committees of the Board performance targets, procedures for monitoring and were held during the year to discharge business control of operations, the authority or the delegation delegated by the Board.
of authority to approve credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital All Directors attended the 2006 Annual General expenditure or realisation or creation of a new Meeting.
venture, specified senior appointments, and any 254 Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive appointment also had the unanimous support of the Board.
Mr Geoghegan has over 33 years experience The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief with HSBC and has worked in 10 countries in North Executive are separated and held by experienced and South America, Asia, the Middle East and full-time Directors.
S K Green succeeded Sir John Europe.
Bond as Group Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2006 and The Directors believed strongly that these M F Geoghegan succeeded S K Green as Group appointments were in the best interests of the Chief Executive.
Sir Brian Moffat, the senior shareholders.
The appointments had the unanimous independent non-executive Director and the support of the Directors and were made after Chairman of the Nomination Committee, wrote to consulting with representatives of major institutional shareholders regarding these appointments.
investors and explaining the succession planning and independent external search process.
S K Green and He explained that the decision by the Board to M F Geoghegan stood for re-election at the 2006 appoint S K Green as Group Chairman was made Annual General Meeting and were both re-elected after a thorough selection process.
This was ahead of taking up their new roles from the conducted by the Nomination Committee, assisted conclusion of that meeting.
by external advisers, and included extensive benchmarking against external candidates.
The Nowadays, success in financial services depends Committee considered carefully the requirements of in a large measure on the relative strengths of the position in terms of HSBCs size, geographical competing management teams.
Planning spread and complexity: the need for full time management succession is key to this, has long been executive commitment and experience of established in the Group and the plan is regularly international banking at the highest level: and took reviewed by the non-executive Directors.
account of the need for the Group Chairman to have Furthermore, HSBC is a remarkable organisation a wide range of skills, the capacity for strategic with a distinctive character and culture.
The business thinking and the ability to sustain and enhance the is managed through international teamwork and Groups corporate character.
The Committee also HSBC believes this is best achieved by management took into consideration the need for the Group continuity and amongst colleagues who have similar Chairman to be able to work closely and effectively values.
By way of example, the top 45 executives with the Group Chief Executive, to have the have a combined service of over 1,000 years with authority to run the Board and to have the personal HSBC, although four of these executives have joined standing to represent HSBC externally at the highest the Group in the last six years, thus ensuring there is level.
Job specifications for the Group Chairman and a balance of new talent to help run the business.
the Group Chief Executive, setting out their respective authorities and responsibilities, have been Board balance and independence of agreed by the Board.
The Nomination Committee Directors came to the unanimous conclusion that S K Green The Board considers all of the non-executive was the outstanding candidate.
Directors to be independent in character and S K Green joined HSBC in 1982.
Baroness Dunn and H Sohmen have Treasurer from 1992 to 1998, and Executive served on the Board for more than nine years, Director, Corporate, Investment Banking and however, and in that respect only, do not meet the Markets from 1998 to 2003, when he was appointed usual criteria for independence set out in the UK Group Chief Executive.
He has worked in Hong Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Kong, New York, the Middle East and London, and Board has therefore determined Lord Butler, has immense international experience and R K F Chien, J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, knowledge of HSBC.
The Committee concluded that W K L Fung, J F Gil Daz, S Hintze, J W J HughesS K Green is superbly well qualified to serve as Hallett, Sir Brian Moffat, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Group Chairman.
His principal commitment outside G Morgan, S W Newton, S M Robertson, and Sir HSBC is as Chairman of The British Bankers Brian Williamson to be independent.
determination of each non-executive Directors independence the Board has concluded that there are S K Greens successor as Group Chief no relationships or circumstances which are likely to Executive was M F Geoghegan, who led HSBC affect a Directors judgement and any relationships Bank, HSBCs principal subsidiary in the UK, from or circumstances which could appear to do so were 2004 to March 2006.
He too is highly qualified for considered not to be material.
From the conclusion his position as Group Chief Executive and his of the Annual General Meeting in 2007, Lord Butler, 255 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Corporate governance W K L Fung and Sir Brian Moffat will each have arranged for newly appointed Directors.
The served on the Board for more than nine years and, in programmes consist of a series of meetings with that respect only, will not meet the usual criteria for other Directors and senior executives to enable new independence set out in the UK Combined Code on Directors to receive information and familiarise corporate governance.
themselves with HSBCs strategy, operations and internal controls.
Prior to their appointment, each When determining independence the Board Director receives comprehensive guidance on the considers that calculation of the length of service of duties and liabilities of a Director of HSBC a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or Holdings.
Opportunities to update and develop skills her first election by shareholders as a Director of and knowledge, through externally run seminars and HSBC Holdings.
Given the complexity and through briefings by senior executives, are provided geographical spread of HSBCs business, the to all Directors.
experience of previous service on a subsidiary company board can be a considerable benefit to Performance evaluation HSBC and does not detract from a Directors independence.
MWM Consulting was commissioned to undertake an independent performance evaluation of the Board, In accordance with the Rules Governing the its committees and individual Directors.
The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of evaluation examined those key areas where the Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director Board requires clarity in order to provide high level determined by the Board to be independent has oversight, including: the strategic process: key provided an annual confirmation of his or her business drivers and performance milestones: the independence to HSBC Holdings.
global economic environment and competitive context in which HSBC operates: the risks faced by Information, induction and ongoing the business: board dynamics, capability and development alignment: reputation: and information flows.
The The Board regularly reviews reports on progress report on the evaluation has been reviewed by the against financial objectives, on business Board and has been used by the non-executive developments and on investor and external relations Directors, led by Sir Brian Moffat, in their and receives reports from the Chairmen of Board evaluation of the performance of the Group Committees and from the Group Chief Executive.
The review concluded that the Board and The Board receives regular reports and presentations its committees were functioning effectively.
It is the on strategy and developments in the customer groups intention of the Board of HSBC Holdings to and principal geographical areas.
Regular reports are continue to review its performance and that of its also provided to the Board, the Group Audit Directors annually.
Committee and the Group Management Board on credit exposures and the loan portfolio, asset and Retirement and re-election of Directors liability management, liquidity, litigation and Lord Butler, R K F Chien, Baroness Dunn, compliance and reputational issues.
The agenda and R A Fairhead, W K L Fung, S Hintze, Sir supporting papers are distributed in advance of all Brian Moffat, G Morgan and H Sohmen will retire at Board and Committee meetings to allow time for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
With the appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at exception of R K F Chien, S Hintze and H Sohmen, the meetings.
All Directors have full and timely who are to retire, they offer themselves for access to all relevant information and may take re-election.
independent professional advice if necessary.
Following the performance evaluation of the The Directors have free and open contact with Board, the Group Chairman has confirmed that the management at all levels.
Group Managing Directors Directors standing for re-election at the Annual and Group General Managers meet informally with General Meeting continue to perform effectively and Directors after Board meetings.
Board offsite visits to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
are made each year to enable Directors to see at first hand the operations of subsidiary companies in local Brief biographical particulars of all Directors environments and to meet management, employees including those seeking re-election at the Annual and customers.
In 2006 the Board visited Istanbul, General Meeting, are given on pages 248 to 250.
Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, with particular emphasis on internal controls, are 256 Relations with shareholders None of the Directors had, during the year or at the end of the year, a material interest, directly or The Board ensures all Directors, including nonindirectly, in any contract of significance with HSBC executive Directors, develop an understanding of the Holdings or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
views of major shareholders through attendance at analyst presentations and other meetings with Corporate Governance Codes institutional investors and their representative bodies.
The Board also met with representatives of HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate institutional shareholders in 2006 to discuss governance.
HSBC Holdings has complied with the corporate governance matters.
applicable code provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive Reporting Council the Combined Code and the Group Finance Director hold regular throughout the year, save for code provision A.
2.2 as meetings with institutional investors and report to the Group Chairman did not on appointment meet the Board on those meetings.
the Combined Codes independence criteria.
On 26 Sir Brian Moffat, Deputy Chairman and, until May 2006 S K Green, who had previously served as the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in Group Chief Executive, became Group Chairman.
In 2007, senior independent non-executive Director, is accordance with the provisions of the Combined available to shareholders should they have concerns Code, the Board consulted major shareholders in which contact through the normal channels of Group advance of the appointment.
Sir Brian Moffat, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance senior independent non-executive Director and the Director or other executives has failed to resolve or Chairman of the Nomination Committee, wrote to all for which such contact would be inappropriate.
From shareholders to explain the Boards decision and the the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in reasons for the appointment.
These are described on 2007, S M Robertson will be senior independent page 255. non-executive Director.
The senior independent nonHSBC Holdings has complied with all executive Director may be contacted through the applicable code provisions of the Code on Corporate Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules London E14 5HQ.
Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited throughout the Indemnification of Directors, relevant audit year.
information and contracts of significance The Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified securities by Directors that complies with The Model out of the assets of the Company against claims from Code in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising in Authority and with The Model Code for Securities connection with the performance of their functions, Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers Hong in accordance with the provisions of the UK Kong Model Code set out in the Rules Governing Companies Act 1985.
Such indemnity provisions of the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of this nature have been in place during the financial Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange year but have not been utilised by the Directors.
of Hong Kong Limited has granted certain waivers Each person who is a director at the date of from strict compliance with the Hong Kong Model approval of this report confirms that so far as the Code, primarily to take into account accepted director is aware, there is no relevant audit practices in the UK, particularly in respect of information of which the Company's auditor is employee share plans.
Following a specific enquiry, unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that each Director has confirmed he or she has complied he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to with the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Group securities throughout the year.
information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.
This Differences in HSBC Holdings New York confirmation is given pursuant to section 234ZA of Stock Exchange corporate governance the UK Companies Act 1985 and should be practices interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to Under the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE the provisions thereof.
corporate governance rules for listed companies, as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, HSBC Holdings 257 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Corporate governance Board committees must disclose any significant ways in which its without management present and independent corporate governance practices differ from those directors must meet separately at least once per year.
followed by US companies subject to NYSE listing During 2006, HSBC Holdings non-executive standards.
HSBC Holdings believes the following to Directors met twice as a group with the Group be the significant differences between its corporate Chairman, but without the Group Chief Executive or governance practices and NYSE corporate Group Finance Director present, and met twice as a governance rules applicable to US companies.
group without the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director present.
HSBC US companies listed on the NYSE are required Holdings practice, in this regard, complies with the to adopt and disclose corporate governance Combined Code.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority require each listed company In accordance with the requirements of the incorporated in the UK to include in its Annual Combined Code, HSBC Holdings discloses in its Report and Accounts a narrative statement of how it annual report how the Board, its committees and the has applied the principles of the Combined Code and Directors are evaluated and the results of the a statement as to whether or not it has complied with evaluation on page 256 and it provides extensive the code provisions of the Combined Code information regarding Directors compensation in throughout the accounting period covered by the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 280 to Annual Report and Accounts.
The terms of reference of HSBC Holdings not complied with the Code provisions, or complied Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with only some of the Code provisions or in the are available at www.
case of provisions whose requirements are of a NYSE listing standards require US companies continuing nature complied for only part of an to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for accounting period covered by the report, must directors, officers and employees, and promptly specify the Code provisions with which it has not disclose any waivers of the code for directors or complied, and where relevant for what part of the executive officers.
In addition to the Group Business reporting period such non-compliance continued, Principles and Values, which apply to the employees and give reasons for any non-compliance.
As stated of all HSBC companies, pursuant to the above, HSBC Holdings complied throughout 2006 requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Board of with the applicable code provisions of the Combined HSBC Holdings has adopted a Code of Ethics Code, save with respect to the appointment of the applicable to the Group Chairman and the Group current Group Chairman, as referred to above.
The Chief Executive, as the principal executive officers, Combined Code does not require HSBC Holdings to and to the Group Finance Director and Group Chief disclose the full range of corporate governance Accounting Officer.
HSBC Holdings Code of Ethics guidelines with which it complies.
com codeofethics or from Under NYSE standards, companies are required the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, to have a nominating corporate governance London E14 5HQ.
If the Board amends or waives committee, composed entirely of independent the provisions of the Code of Ethics, details of the directors.
In addition to identifying individuals amendment or waiver will appear at the same qualified to become board members, this committee website address.
During 2006 HSBC Holdings made must develop and recommend to the board a set of no amendments to its Code of Ethics and granted no corporate governance principles.
HSBCs waivers from its provisions.
The Group Business Nomination Committee, which follows the Principles and Values are available on requirements of the Combined Code, includes a www.
majority of members who are independent.
All Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US members of the Committee are non-executive companies, independent directors must comprise a Directors and three of the four members, including majority of the board of directors.
Currently, over the Committee chairman, are independent nonhalf of HSBC Holdings Directors are independent.
The Committees terms of reference do not require the Committee to develop Under the Combined Code the HSBC Holdings and recommend corporate governance principles for Board determines whether a director is independent HSBC Holdings.
As stated above, HSBC Holdings is in character and judgement and whether there are subject to the corporate governance principles of the relationships or circumstances which are likely to Combined Code.
affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Under the NYSE rules a director cannot Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, nonqualify as independent unless the board affirmatively management directors must meet on a regular basis 258 determines that the director has no material Y A Nasr, all of whom are Group Managing relationship with the listed company: in addition the Directors.
NYSE rules prescribe a list of circumstances in The Group Management Board exercises the which a director cannot be independent.
The powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so Combined Code requires a companys board to far as they concern the management and day-to-day assess director independence by affirmatively running of HSBC Holdings in accordance with such concluding that the director is independent of policies and directions as the Board may from time management and free from any business or other to time determine.
Matters reserved for approval by relationship that could materially interfere with the the Board are described on page 254. exercise of independent judgement.
Following each meeting the Group Chief Lastly, a chief executive officer of a US Executive reports to the Board on the Group company listed on the NYSE must annually certify Management Boards activities.
that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance standards.
Group Audit Committee In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, HSBC Holdings Group The Group Audit Committee meets regularly with Chairman is not required to provide the NYSE with HSBCs senior financial, internal audit, credit, legal this annual compliance certification.
However, in and compliance management and the external accordance with rules applicable to both US auditor to consider HSBC Holdings financial companies and foreign private issuers, the Group reporting, the nature and scope of audit reviews and Chairman is required promptly to notify the NYSE the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in writing after any executive officer becomes aware and compliance.
The members of the Group Audit of any material non-compliance with the NYSE Committee throughout 2006 were Sir Brian Moffat corporate governance standards applicable to HSBC Chairman, R K F Chien, J D Coombe and Holdings.
J W J Hughes-Hallett was appointed a member of the Committee on 1 June 2006.
Sir John Since July 2005 HSBC Holdings has been Kemp-Welch ceased to be a member of the required to submit annual and interim written Committee on 26 May 2006.
From the conclusion of affirmations of compliance with applicable NYSE the Annual General Meeting in 2007, Sir Brian corporate governance standards, similar to the Moffat will cease to be Chairman and a member of affirmations required of NYSE listed US companies.
the Committee, R A Fairhead will become Chairman of the Committee and S W Newton will become a Board committees member of the Committee.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board has appointed a number of committees consisting of certain Directors, Group Managing The Board has determined that Sir Brian Moffat, Directors and, in the case of the Corporate R K F Chien, R A Fairhead, J D Coombe and J W J Responsibility Committee, certain co-opted nonHughes-Hallett are independent according to SEC director members.
The following are the principal criteria, and that Sir Brian Moffat, R A Fairhead, committees: J D Coombe and J W J Hughes-Hallett may be regarded as audit committee financial experts for the Group Management Board purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and as having recent and relevant financial The Group Management Board meets regularly and experience.
operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board.
The objective of Appointments to the Committee are made for the Group Management Board is to maintain a periods of up to three years, extendable by no more reporting and control structure whereby all of the than two additional three-year periods, so long as line operations of HSBC are accountable to members continue to be independent.
individual members of the Group Management Formal and tailored induction programmes are Board who report to the Group Chief Executive who held for newly appointed Committee members and in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The members appropriate training is provided on an ongoing and of the Group Management Board are timely basis.
M F Geoghegan Chairman and D J Flint, both of whom are executive Directors, and C C R Bannister, There were seven meetings of the Group Audit V H C Cheng, C-H Filippi, A A Flockhart, Committee during 2006.
R K F Chien, J D Coombe, S T Gulliver, D H Hodgkinson, D D J John and 259 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees R A Fairhead and Sir Brian Moffat attended all of the The Committee undertakes an annual review of meetings: Sir John Kemp-Welch attended two of the the effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal three meetings held before his retirement and control.
This is described on page 262.
The J W J Hughes-Hallett attended each of the four Committee receives regular updates on changes in meetings held following his appointment.
law, regulations and accounting standards and practices and the preparations being made to respond At each meeting, the Committee has the to those requirements.
During 2006, the Committee opportunity to meet with the external auditor, received regular updates on the preparations for the without management present, to facilitate the review of internal financial reporting controls discussion of any matter relating to its remit and any required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, issue arising from the audit.
Similar arrangements the implementation of the Basel 2 capital adequacy have been adopted for the Committee to meet with requirements and the actions taken to implement the the internal auditor.
recommendations of the Corrigan Report on The terms of reference of the Committee, which reducing the risks of, and limiting the damage are reviewed annually, are available at caused by, systemic financial shocks.
To ensure issued by the Counterparty Risk Management Policy consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary Group focused on risk management, risk monitoring company audit committees, the Group Audit and enhanced transparency in financial institutions.
Committee has established core terms of reference to The Committee reports on its activities at each guide subsidiary company boards when adopting Board meeting and, twice annually, produces a terms of reference for their audit committees.
The written summary of its activities.
Committee receives bi-annual confirmations from subsidiary company audit committees relating to the The Committee has approved procedures for the financial statements and internal control procedures receipt, retention and handling of complaints of those subsidiaries.
regarding accounting, internal accounting controls and auditing matters.
The Committee receives The Group Audit Committee is accountable to regular reports regarding the nature, investigation the Board and assists it in meeting its responsibilities and resolution of material complaints and concerns for maintaining an effective system of internal from the Head of Group Compliance.
control and compliance and for meeting its external financial reporting obligations.
The Committee is The Committee reviews and monitors the directly responsible on behalf of the Board for the external auditor's independence and objectivity and selection, oversight and remuneration of the external the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into auditor.
The Committee receives frequent consideration relevant professional and regulatory comprehensive reports from the Group General requirements.
Manager Credit and Risk, the Head of Group The Committee reviews the strategy and Compliance, the Group General Manager, Legal and approves the terms for the engagement of the Compliance, the Group General Manager Internal external auditor for the audit of the Annual Report Audit and the Head of Group Security and receives and Accounts.
Regular reports on the progress of the periodic presentations from other functional heads audit facilitate the Committees assessment of the and line management.
Regular comprehensive reports on the work of The Committee receives reports from the the internal audit function are submitted to the external auditor on its own policies and procedures Committee.
These reports include reports on frauds regarding independence and quality control and and special investigations and summaries of internal oversees the appropriate rotation of audit partners audit findings, regulatory reports and external within the external auditor.
The external auditor auditors reports.
The Committee monitors and provides the Committee with an annual confirmation reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit of its independence in accordance with industry function and receives summaries of periodic peer standards.
reviews of HSBCs internal audit functions around the world.
HSBC has adopted the Principles of the On the recommendation of the Committee the International Institute of Internal Auditors, which Board has approved a policy for the employment by include a periodic external quality assurance review HSBC of former employees of the external auditor of the internal audit function.
The first such review or its affiliates.
The Committee monitors this policy will be undertaken in 2007. through the receipt of periodic reports of those former employees of the external auditor employed 260 by HSBC and the number of former employees of Nomination Committee the external auditor currently employed in senior The Nomination Committee is responsible for positions in HSBC.
The reports enable the leading the process for Board appointments and for Committee to consider whether there has been any identifying and nominating, for approval by the impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
auditors judgement or independence in respect of Before recommending an appointment to the Board, the audit.
the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, The Group Audit Committee has established knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the policies for the pre-approval of specific services that light of this, identifies the role and capabilities may be provided by the principal auditor, KPMG required for a particular appointment.
Candidates are Audit Plc and its affiliates KPMG.
These policies considered on merit against these criteria.
Care is are kept under review and amended as necessary to taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to meet the dual objectives of ensuring that HSBC devote to HSBC.
Prospective Directors are asked to benefits in a cost effective manner from the identify any significant other commitments and cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor, confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what whilst also ensuring that the auditor maintains the is expected of them.
All Directors are subject to necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
election by shareholders at the Annual General These pre-approval policies apply to all services Meeting following their appointment and to rewhere HSBC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries pays election at least every three years.
The members of for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the the Nomination Committee throughout 2006 were service and has selected or influenced the choice of Sir Brian Moffat Chairman, Lord Butler, Baroness KPMG.
All services entered into with KPMG during Dunn and Sir Brian Williamson.
2006 were pre-approved by the Committee or were From the conclusion of the Annual General entered into under pre-approval policies established Meeting in 2007, Sir Brian Williamson will become by the Committee.
A quarterly update on non-audit Chairman of the Committee in succession to Sir services provided by KPMG is presented to the Brian Moffat, Lord Butler will cease to be a member Committee.
of the Committee and J W J Hughes-Hallett and The pre-approved services relate to regulatory S M Robertson will become members of the reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types Committee.
of attestation reports, the provision of advice and There were four Nomination Committee other non-audit services allowed under SEC meetings during 2006, each of which was attended independence rules.
They fall into the categories of by all members.
audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
Following each meeting the Committee reports to the Board on its activities.
All services provided by KPMG relating to the implementation of section 404 of the SarbanesThe terms of reference of the Committee are Oxley Act were specifically pre-approved by the available at www.
The appointments of J F Gil Daz, G Morgan An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect and S M Robertson as non-executive Directors were of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG made on the advice and recommendation of the for each of the last three years is disclosed in Note 8 Nomination Committee.
J F Gil Daz, former on the Financial Statements on page 331.
Secretary of Finance and Public Credit in Mexico, and G Morgan, a director of HSBC Bank Canada for The Committee has recommended to the Board nine years, were identified by the Nomination that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed auditor at the Committee and so neither an external consultancy forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
nor open advertising was used in connection with their appointments.
Remuneration Committee The terms and conditions of appointments of The role of the Remuneration Committee and its non-executive Directors are available for inspection membership are set out in the Directors at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be Remuneration Report on page 280. made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
261 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees Internal control As set out on page 255, the Committee each meeting the Committee reports to the Board on conducted the selection process which recommended its activities.
to the Board that S K Green succeed Sir John Bond Further information will be in HSBCs as Group Chairman at the conclusion of the 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006, available in Annual General Meeting and that M F Geoghegan May 2007. succeed S K Green as Group Chief Executive.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Internal control Board concerning: plans for succession for both The Directors are responsible for internal control in executive and non-executive Directors: the HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
appointment of any Director to executive or other Procedures have been designed for safeguarding office: suitable candidates for the role of senior assets against unauthorised use or disposition: for independent non-executive Director: the re-election maintaining proper accounting records: and for the by shareholders of Directors retiring by rotation: the reliability of financial information used within the renewal of the terms of office of non-executive business or for publication.
Such procedures are Directors: membership of Board Committees, in designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of consultation with the Group Chairman and the failure to achieve business objectives and can only chairman of such committees as appropriate: any provide reasonable and not absolute assurance matters relating to the continuation in office of any against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud.
Director at any time: Directors fees and committee The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to fees for the Company: and appointments and redischarge its obligations under the Handbook of appointments to the Boards of Directors of major Rules and Guidance issued by the Financial Services subsidiary companies as appropriate.
The Committee regularly reviews the structure, The key procedures that the Directors have size and composition including the skills, established are designed to provide effective internal knowledge and experience required of the Board control within HSBC and accord with the Internal and makes recommendations to the Board as Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the appropriate.
It keeps under review the leadership Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting needs of HSBC, with a view to ensuring the Council.
Such procedures for the ongoing continued ability of HSBC to compete effectively in identification, evaluation and management of the the marketplace.
The Board has satisfied itself that significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place the Nomination Committee has in place appropriate throughout the year and up to 5 March 2007, the date plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts management positions as well as procedures to 2006.
In the case of companies acquired during the ensure an appropriate balance of skills and year, the internal controls in place are being experience within HSBC and on the Board.
reviewed against HSBCs benchmarks and integrated into HSBCs processes.
Corporate Responsibility Committee HSBCs key internal control procedures include The Corporate Responsibility Committee is the following: responsible for overseeing corporate responsibility and sustainability policies, principally Authority to operate the various subsidiaries is environmental, social and ethical matters and for delegated to their respective chief executive advising the Board, committees of the Board and officers within limits set by the Board of executive management on such matters.
The terms of Directors of HSBC Holdings.
Sub-delegation of reference of the Committee are available at authority from the Board to individuals requires www.
The members of these individuals, within their respective the Committee throughout 2006 were Lord Butler delegation, to maintain a clear and appropriate Chairman, W K L Fung, S Hintze and Sir Mark apportionment of significant responsibilities and Moody-Stuart, each of whom is an independent nonto oversee the establishment and maintenance of executive Director, and G V I Davis, E M Diggory systems of controls appropriate to the business.
and Lord May, who are non-director members of the The appointment of executives to the most Committee.
senior positions within HSBC requires the approval of the Board of Directors of HSBC There were five meetings of the Corporate Holdings.
Following Functional, operating, financial reporting and 262 certain management reporting standards are support functions and certain geographies within established by Group Head Office management the framework of the Group Strategic Plan.
committees, for application across the whole of Operating plans are prepared and adopted by all HSBC.
These are supplemented by operating HSBC companies annually, setting out the key standards set by functional and local business initiatives and the likely financial management as required for the type of business effects of those initiatives.
and geographical location of each subsidiary.
Centralised functional control is exercised over Systems and procedures are in place in HSBC to all computer system developments and identify, control and report on the major risks operations.
Common systems are employed for including credit, changes in the market prices of similar business processes wherever practicable.
financial instruments, liquidity, operational Credit and market risks are measured and error, breaches of law or regulations, reported on in subsidiaries and aggregated for unauthorised activities and fraud.
Exposure to review of risk concentrations on a Group-wide these risks is monitored by risk management basis.
committees, asset and liability committees and Responsibilities for financial performance executive committees in subsidiaries and by the against plans and for capital expenditure, credit Group Management Board for HSBC as a exposures and market risk exposures are whole.
A risk management meeting of the Group delegated with limits to line management in the Management Board, chaired by the Group subsidiaries.
In addition, functional management Finance Director, is held each month.
These risk in Group Head Office is responsible for setting management meetings address asset and liability policies, procedures and standards in the management issues.
Minutes of the risk following areas of risk: credit risk: market risk: management meetings of the Group liquidity risk: operational risk: IT risk: insurance Management Board are submitted to the risk: accounting risk: tax risk: legal and Group Audit Committee and to the Board of regulatory compliance risk: human resources Directors.
risk: reputational risk and purchasing risk: and A Disclosure Committee has been established to for certain global product lines.
review material disclosures made by HSBC Policies to guide subsidiary companies and Holdings for any errors, misstatements or management at all levels in the conduct of omissions.
The membership of the Disclosure business to safeguard the Groups reputation are Committee, which is chaired by the Group established by the Board of HSBC Holdings and Company Secretary, includes the heads of the the Group Management Board, subsidiary finance, legal, credit and risk, compliance, company boards, board committees or senior corporate communications, investor relations management.
Reputational risks can arise from and internal audit functions.
environmental, social or governance issues, or Processes are in place to identify new risks from as a consequence of operational risk events.
As a changes in market practices or customer banking group, HSBCs good reputation behaviours which could expose HSBC to depends upon the way in which it conducts its heightened risk of loss or reputational damage.
business but it can also be affected by the way in During 2006 additional attention was directed which clients, to which it provides financial towards evolving best practice in the areas of services, conduct their business.
internet banking, counterparty risk management The internal audit function, which is centrally policy following the publication of the Corrigan controlled, monitors the effectiveness of internal report in July 2005: best practice guidance control structures across the whole of HSBC.
emerging on liquidity management from the The work of the internal audit function is Institute of International Finance: the focused on areas of greatest risk to HSBC as implications of a slowing housing market in the determined by a risk-based approach.
The head US coupled with rising payment obligations of this function reports to the Group Chairman under adjustable rate mortgages: and the and the Group Audit Committee.
implications of changed customer behaviour in the UK regarding seeking protection from credit Management is responsible for ensuring that obligations.
recommendations made by the internal audit function are implemented within an appropriate Periodic strategic plans are prepared for and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect customer groups, global product groups, key must be provided to internal audit.
Management 263 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Internal control Directors interests Employees must also confirm annually to internal audit that framework or in adherence to Group policies, the offices under their control have taken or are in Group Audit Committee has reviewed special the process of taking the appropriate actions to reports, prepared at the instigation of management, deal with all significant recommendations made which analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons by external auditors in management letters or by learned and the actions proposed by management to regulators following regulatory inspections.
The Group Audit Committee has kept under The Directors, through the Group Audit review the effectiveness of this system of internal Committee, have conducted an annual review of the control and has reported regularly to the Board of effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal control Directors.
The key processes used by the Committee covering all material controls, including financial, in carrying out its reviews include: regular business operational and compliance controls and risk and operational risk assessments: regular reports management systems.
The Group Audit Committee from the heads of key risk functions including has received confirmation that management has Internal Audit and Compliance: the production taken or is taking the necessary action to remedy any annually of reviews of the internal control failings or weaknesses identified through the framework applied at Group Head Office and major operation of HSBCs framework of controls.
operating subsidiary level measured against HSBC benchmarks, which cover all internal controls, both Directors interests financial and non-financial: semi-annual According to the registers of Directors interests confirmations from chief executives of principal maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section subsidiary companies as to whether there have been 325 of the Companies Act 1985 and section 352 of any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, caused by weaknesses in internal controls: internal the Directors of HSBC Holdings at the year-end had audit reports: external audit reports: prudential the following interests, all beneficial unless reviews: and regulatory reports.
At 31 December 2006, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong of D J Flint, M F Geoghegan and S K Green in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each of which represents less than 0.02 per cent of the shares in issue, including interests arising through employee share plans are: D J Flint 817,055: M F Geoghegan 778,298: and S K Green 1,405,974.
3 Interests at 3 January 2006 date of appointment.
4 Interests held by private investment companies.
264 S K Green has an interest as beneficial owner in shares and have undertaken to transfer these shares 75,000 of HSBC Holdings plc 5 per cent to HSBC on ceasing to be Directors of HSBC Subordinated Notes 2009 which he held throughout France.
No Directors held any short positions as defined As a Director of HSBC Private Banking in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Holdings Suisse, S K Green has an interest as Kong.
Save as stated above and in the Directors beneficial owner in one share of CHF1,000, which Remuneration Report, none of the Directors had an he held throughout the year.
S K Green has waived interest in any shares or debentures of HSBC or any his rights to receive dividends on the share and has associated corporation at the beginning or at the end undertaken to transfer the share to HSBC on ceasing of the year, and none of the Directors or members of to be a Director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings their immediate family was awarded or exercised Suisse.
any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures during the year.
As Directors of HSBC France, S K Green and M F Geoghegan each have an interest as beneficial Since the end of the year, the interests of each of owner in one share of 5 in that company, which the following Directors have increased by the they held throughout the year.
2 Comprises scrip dividend on shares held as beneficial owner 568 shares, the acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Ownership Plan through regular monthly contributions 27 shares, the automatic reinvestment of dividend income on shares held in the plan 8 shares and by the automatic reinvestment of dividend income by an Individual Savings Account and Personal Equity Plan manager 39 shares.
3 Scrip dividend on awards held under The HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000.
4 Comprises scrip dividend on shares held as beneficial owner 2,842 shares, the acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Ownership Plan through normal monthly contributions 27 shares and the automatic reinvestment of dividend income on shares held in the plan 8 shares.
There have been no other changes in Directors option plans and HSBC Finance 1996 Long-Term interests from 31 December 2006 to the date of this Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.
Any subsequent changes up to the last options are exercisable between 2007 and 2014 at practicable date before the publication of the Notice prices ranging from 5.3496 to 9.1350 per share, of Annual General Meeting will be set out in the and US$10.66 to US$21.37 per share.
Employees At 31 December 2006, Directors and Senior Management held, in aggregate, beneficial interests At 31 December 2006, HSBCs customers were in 17,333,485 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares served by 312,000 full and part-time employees 0.2 per cent of the issued ordinary shares.
worldwide, compared with 284,000 at 31 December 2005 and 253,000 at 31 December 2004.
The main At 31 December 2006, executive Directors and centres of employment are the UK with Senior Management held, in aggregate, options to approximately 57,000 employees: the US 50,000: subscribe for 4,585,589 HSBC Holdings ordinary Brazil 29,000: Hong Kong 28,000: India 27,000: shares under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Mexico 24,000 and France 15,000.
HSBC negotiates Option Scheme, HSBC Holdings Group Share with recognised unions.
The highest concentrations Option Plan, HSBC Holdings savings-related share 265 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans of union membership are in Brazil, France, India, personal development programmes.
HSBC invests in Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, the Philippines, Singapore succession planning and developing a talent pipeline and the UK.
It is the policy to maintain wellfrom graduate hires through to senior management.
developed communications and consultation In addition, HSBC recognises that there are lessons programmes.
HSBC has not experienced any to be learned from other successful businesses, and material disruptions to its operations from labour will recruit from other organisations where disputes during the past five years.
In support of its strategy, HSBC focuses on Employee involvement attracting, developing and motivating the very best individuals and on encouraging talent internally.
HSBC Holdings continues to regard communication HSBC places employees engagement with the with its employees as a key aspect of its policies.
business central to people management.
With a Information is given to employees about proven link to superior business performance, this is employment matters and about the financial and beneficial to shareholders, colleagues and customers economic factors affecting HSBCs performance alike.
Emphasis is placed on performance through management channels, an intranet site management and differentiated rewards that are accessible to all HSBCs employees worldwide, incompetitive in their market, valuing those who house magazines and by way of attendance at contribute over time.
In addition, a continuing focus internal seminars and training programmes.
on policies that encourage an inclusive working Employees are encouraged to discuss operational environment and the availability of career and strategic issues with their line management and opportunities for all is critical to HSBC being an to make suggestions aimed at improving employer of choice.
HSBC seeks to maintain an performance.
The involvement of employees in the employee profile that reflects its customer base.
performance of HSBC is further encouraged through participation in bonus and share plans as appropriate.
HSBC operates in a highly competitive and international business environment and HSBCs About half of all HSBC employees now diverse workforce represents a significant participate in one or more of HSBCs employee competitive advantage.
The broad cultural mix and share plans.
increasing cross-border mobility of its employees enables HSBC to resource operations with Employment of disabled persons individuals who have detailed knowledge of local HSBC Holdings continues to be committed to markets and of HSBC globally, in order to enhance providing equal opportunities to employees.
The customer service and improve productivity.
HSBC employment of disabled persons is included in this recruits from a broad cross-section of society and commitment and the recruitment, training, career encourages the sharing of individual perspectives development and promotion of disabled persons is and ideas through collective leadership development based on the aptitudes and abilities of the individual.
events, training and global secondments.
Should employees become disabled during Increasingly HSBC recognises its role as an employment, every effort is made to continue their employer in a wider context and is developing its employment and, if necessary, appropriate training is commitment to employee health issues, involvement provided.
in community and not-for-profit organisations and flexible working opportunities.
As rising global Remuneration policy education levels and advances in technology As with most businesses, HSBCs performance improve, the Groups access to previously untapped depends on the quality and commitment of its resources and the profile of HSBCs employees people.
Accordingly, the Boards stated strategy is to continues to change.
Job losses in some countries attract, retain and motivate the very best people.
may arise but HSBC has a good record of communicating honestly and openly, treating people In a business that is based on trust and with respect and reassigning people wherever relationships, HSBCs broad policy is to look for possible.
people who want to make a long-term career with the organisation since trust and relationships are HSBC attaches great importance to cultivating built over time.
Resources have been set aside to ensure a supply of talented individuals to meet Remuneration is an important component in business needs, with support provided for these peoples decisions on which company to join, but it employees in the form of career enhancement and is not the only one: it is HSBCs experience that 266 people are attracted to an organisation with good Ordinance.
The options were granted at nil values, fairness, the potential for success and the consideration.
No options have been granted to scope to develop a broad, interesting career.
substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or services, or in excess of the individual limit for each In line with the overall principles applied by the share plan.
No options were cancelled during the Remuneration Committee as described on page 280 year.
in the Directors Remuneration Report: Employee share plans are subject to the employees salaries are reviewed annually in the following limits on the number of HSBC Holdings context of individual and business performance, ordinary shares that may be subscribed for.
In any market practice, internal relativities and 10-year period not more than 10 per cent of the competitive market pressures.
Allowances and HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time benefits are largely determined by local market to time approximately 1,159 million HSBC practice: Holdings ordinary shares at 5 March 2007 may in employees participate in various bonus aggregate become issuable pursuant to the grant of arrangements.
The level of performance-related options or be issued other than pursuant to options variable pay depends upon the performance of under all-employee share plans.
In any 10-year constituent businesses and the individual period not more than 5 per cent of the HSBC concerned.
Variable bonus plans emphasise Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to time revenue growth whilst retaining a strong link to approximately 579 million HSBC Holdings expense control: other key measures taken into ordinary shares on 5 March 2007 may in aggregate account in determining individual bonus levels be put under option under The HSBC Share Plan or include customer relationships: employee be issuable pursuant to the HSBC Holdings Group engagement: full utilisation of professional Share Option Plan, the HSBC Executive Share skills: and adherence to HSBCs ethical Option Scheme, the HSBC Holdings Restricted standards, lending guidelines, internal controls Share Plan 2000 or The HSBC Share Plan.
Bonus ranges are reviewed in number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares that may the context of prevailing market practice: and be issued on exercise of all options granted on or after 27 May 2005 under The HSBC Share Plan and HSBC has a long history of paying close any other plans must not exceed 1,119,000,000 attention to its customers in order to provide HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Under the HSBC value for shareholders.
This has been achieved Holdings savings-related share option plans, The by ensuring that the interests of HSBC and its HSBC Share Plan, HSBC Holdings Group Share employees are aligned with those of its Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Executive shareholders and that HSBCs approach to risk Share Option Scheme there were options outstanding management serves the interests of all.
over 277,129,598 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at Accordingly, employees are encouraged to 31 December 2006.
Particulars of options over participate in the success they help to create, HSBC Holdings shares held by Directors of HSBC through participating in the HSBC Holdings Holdings are set out on pages 287 of the Directors savings-related share option plans and in local Remuneration Report.
share ownership and profit-sharing arrangements.
The impact on earnings per share of granting share options which are to be satisfied by the issue of Employee share plans new shares is shown in diluted earnings per share on the face of the consolidated income statement, with To help align the interests of employees with those further details disclosed in Note 12 on the Financial of shareholders, share options are granted under allStatements on page 339.
The effect on basic earnings employee share plans and discretionary awards of per share of exercising all outstanding share options Performance Shares and Restricted Shares are made would be to dilute it by 0.58 per cent.
under The HSBC Share Plan.
There have been no awards of discretionary share options since All-employee share option plans 30 September 2005.
The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Set out on pages 267 to 275 are particulars of Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share outstanding employee share options, including those Option Plan: International are all-employee share held by employees working under employment plans under which eligible HSBC employees those contracts that are regarded as continuous contracts employed within the Group on the first working day for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment of the year of grant may be granted options to 267 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Employees Related Share Option Plan: International the option may make contributions of up to 250 or exercise price is determined by reference to the equivalent each month over a period of one, three or average market value of the ordinary shares on the five years which may be used on the first, third or five business days immediately preceding the fifth anniversary of the commencement of the invitation date, then applying a discount of relevant savings contract, at the employees election, 20 per cent except for the options awarded before to exercise the options.
Alternatively, the employee 2001 and the one-year options awarded under the US may elect to have the savings, plus where sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount is applied.
applicable any interest or bonus, repaid in cash.
The exercise period of the options awarded under Options granted over a one-year period will be all-employee share plans may be advanced to an exercisable within three months following the first earlier date in certain circumstances, for example on anniversary of the commencement of the savings retirement, and may be extended in certain contract.
Options granted over three or five-year circumstances, for example on the death of a periods will be exercisable within six months participant, the executors may exercise the option up following the third or fifth anniversary of the to six months beyond the normal exercise period.
commencement of the relevant savings contract.
In The closing price per HSBC Holdings ordinary share the case of redundancy, retirement on grounds of on 25 April 2006, the day before options were injury or ill health, retirement at or after normal awarded in 2006 under the HSBC Holdings retirement age, the transfer of the employing Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the HSBC business to another party, or a change of control of Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: the employing company, options may be exercised International, was 9.51.
The all-employee share before completion of the relevant savings contract.
option plans will terminate on 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to terminate the plans at an Under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related earlier date.
HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option applicable in the tables below, the US dollars, Hong Plan: International Kong dollars and euro exercise prices were converted from the sterling exercise price at the To encourage greater participation in the HSBC prevailing exchange rates.
The second amendment Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: gives individuals the choice of options over one year International, two amendments were approved at the in addition to three and five year terms.
The first was the weighted average closing price of the shares introduction of the facility to save and have option immediately before the dates on which options were prices expressed in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars exercised was 9.70. and euros as well as in pounds sterling.
The Share awards performance conditions for awards of Performance Shares are described under Long-term incentive Note 9 on the Financial Statements on pages 332 to plan on page 281.
The Remuneration Committee 338 gives details about share-based payments, has determined that for awards made from 2007, including awards of Performance Shares and Performance Share awards will be directed to those Restricted Shares made in 2006. senior executives who can influence the performance The HSBC Share Plan was approved at the 2005 conditions, being the Group Chairman and members Annual General Meeting.
Awards of Performance and attendees of the Group Management Board.
Shares are made under this Plan to executive 269 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans Awards of Restricted Shares are made to other Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
In 2006 there employees below the level of the Group were still some 35,000 high performing employees Management Board based on performance, potential approximately the top 20 per cent of performers and retention requirements or as part of deferral of below senior management who had received share annual bonus.
Restricted Share awards comprise a option awards under the HSBC Holdings Group number of shares to which the employee will Share Option Plan in 2003.
Further details were become entitled, normally after three years, subject given on page 216 of the Annual Report and to the individual remaining in employment.
All Accounts 2005. awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares The Remuneration Committee favours the use will be satisfied by the transfer of existing shares.
of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares and, following the introduction of The HSBC Share Plan Discretionary share option plans in 2005, has not granted discretionary share options Prior to 2005, awards of discretionary share options on any widespread basis.
There are locations, and were made under the HSBC Holdings Group Share there may be particular circumstances in the future, Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Executive however, where option grants may be appropriate.
Share Option Scheme to employees, based on No options were awarded in 2006.
The maximum performance criteria and potential.
The vesting of value of options which may be granted to an these options was subject to the attainment of preemployee in any one year under The HSBC Share determined relative TSR performance criteria, except Plan when taken together with any Performance within HSBC France which was acquired in 2000 Share awards made under The HSBC Share Plan is where performance criteria were phased in.
Under 700 per cent of the employees annual salary at the the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan the date of grant.
maximum value of options which could have been The exercise price of options granted under The granted to an employee in any one year together HSBC Share Plan, and previously under the HSBC with any Performance Share awards under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, is the higher of Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 was 150 per the average market value of the ordinary shares on cent of the employees annual salary at the date of the five business days prior to the grant of the option grant plus any bonus paid for the previous year or in or the market value of the ordinary shares on the date exceptional circumstances 225 per cent.
Under the of grant of the option.
The exercise price of options HSBC Executive Share Option Scheme the granted under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share maximum value of options which could have been Option Scheme was the market value of the ordinary granted to an employee in any one year was four shares on the business day prior to the grant of the times the employees relevant earnings.
The HSBC Share Plan will terminate on attainment of the relative TSR performance 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to condition where applicable, options are generally terminate the Plan at an earlier date.
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Employees of a subsidiary that The exercise period of the options awarded is sold or transferred out of HSBC may exercise under discretionary share incentive plans may be options awarded under the HSBC Holdings Group advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, Share Option Plan or the HSBC Holdings Executive for example on retirement and may be extended in Share Option Scheme within six or twelve months certain circumstances, for example on the death of a respectively of the sale or transfer regardless of participant the executors may exercise the option up whether the performance condition is met.
Subject to to twelve months beyond the normal exercise period.
the attainment of relative TSR performance conditions the options are exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
In light of the sustained performance and shareholder returns over the three year period to March 2006, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to waive the relative TSR performance condition in respect of the 2003 awards under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
No options have been granted under the Scheme since that date.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.72.
No options have been granted under the Plan since that date.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.69.
The HSBC Share Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options Options Options at exercised lapsed Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January during during 31 December award year year price from until 2006 2006 21 Jun 2005 8.794 21 Jun 2008 21 Jun 2009 552,526 552,526 30 Sep 2005 9.170 30 Sep 2008 30 Sep 2015 74,985 74,985 Subsidiary company share plans options could be granted over their respective shares.
No further options will be granted under either of HSBC France and its subsidiaries these companies plans.
The following are details of When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and its options to acquire shares in HSBC France and HSBC subsidiary company, HSBC Private Bank France, Private Bank France.
operated employee share option plans under which 271 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans HSBC France shares of 5 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 1 award price from until 2006 during year during year 2006 9 May 1996 35.52 9 May 1998 9 May 2006 44,500 44,500 - 7 May 1997 37.05 7 Jun 2000 7 May 2007 162,000 96,000 66,000 29 Apr 1998 73.50 7 Jun 2000 29 Apr 2008 285,244 93,090 192,154 7 Apr 1999 81.71 7 Jun 2000 7 Apr 2009 475,502 91,900 383,602 12 Apr 2000 142.50 1 Jan 2002 12 Apr 2010 765,750 119,625 646,125 1 Following exercise of the options, the HSBC France shares will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as for the acquisition of HSBC France 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share.
At 31 December 2006, The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
1 held 15,316,328 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC France shares arising from the exercise of these options.
HSBC Private Bank France shares of 2 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 1 award price from until 2006 during year during year 2006 21 Dec 1999 10.84 21 Dec 2000 21 Dec 2009 91,150 34,020 57,130 9 Mar 2000 12.44 27 Jun 2004 31 Dec 2010 82,160 54,534 27,626 15 May 2001 20.80 15 May 2002 15 May 2011 229,275 74,250 155,025 1 Oct 2002 22.22 2 Oct 2005 1 Oct 2012 195,075 32,000 163,075 1 Following exercise of the options, the HSBC Private Bank France shares will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 1.83 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share.
At 31 December 2006, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 held 1,085,323 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC Private Bank France shares arising from the exercise of these options.
HSBC Finance and its subsidiaries the acquisition.
Options and equity-based awards granted on or after 14 November 2002 will be Following the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, exercisable on their original terms, save that they all outstanding options and equity-based awards over have been adjusted to reflect the exchange ratio.
HSBC Finance common shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in The following are details of options and equitythe same ratio as the share exchange offer for the based awards to acquire shares in HSBC Holdings.
acquisition of HSBC Finance 2.675 HSBC At 31 December 2006, the HSBC Household Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Finance Employee Benefit Trust 2003 and the HSBC common share and the exercise prices per share Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 No.
No further options will held 8,670,335 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and be granted under any of these plans.
198,665 American Depositary Shares ADSs, each All outstanding options and other equity-based of which represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary awards over HSBC Finance common shares granted shares, which may be used to satisfy the exercise of before 14 November 2002, being the date the employee share options.
2 25 per cent of the original award is exercisable on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of award.
May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e. g. retirement.
2 Restricted Stock Rights vest one third on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of award.
3 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which rights vested was 9.83.
Beneficial Corporation: 1990 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 award price US$ from until 2006 during year during year 2006 20 Nov 1996 7.86 20 Nov 1997 20 Nov 2006 244,175 244,175 14 Nov 1997 9.20 14 Nov 1998 14 Nov 2007 131,248 131,248 19 Nov 1997 9.39 19 Nov 1998 19 Nov 2007 383,946 74,721 309,225 1 Dec 1997 9.68 1 Dec 1998 1 Dec 2007 49,218 49,218 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.77.
273 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans Beneficial Corporation: BenShares Equity Participation Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 award price US$ from until 2006 during year during year 2006 31 Jan 1997 9.87 31 Jan 1998 31 Jan 2007 36,391 15,457 821 20,113 15 Nov 1997 11.04 15 Nov 1998 15 Nov 2007 48,719 12,312 821 35,586 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.73.
Renaissance Holdings, Inc: Amended and Restated 1997 Incentive Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December award price US$ from until 2006 during year during year 2006 31 Oct 1997 1.25 31 Oct 1998 31 Oct 2007 1,325 1,325 1 Jan 1998 1.25 1 Jan 1999 1 Jan 2008 1,424 1,424 1 Oct 1998 1.74 1 Oct 1999 1 Oct 2008 803 803 1 Jan 1999 2.24 1 Jan 2000 1 Jan 2009 5,024 5,024 Bank of Bermuda plans further options will be granted under any of these plans.
Following the acquisition of Bank of Bermuda in 2004, all outstanding options over Bank of Bermuda All outstanding options over Bank of Bermuda shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC shares vested on completion of the acquisition.
The Holdings ordinary shares based on the consideration following are details of options to acquire shares in of US$40 for each Bank of Bermuda share and the HSBC Holdings.
At 31 December 2006, the HSBC average closing price of HSBC Holdings ordinary Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 shares, derived from the London Stock Exchange held 2,266,949 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Daily Official List, for the five business days which may be used to satisfy the exercise of these preceding the closing date of the acquisition.
6,400,001 6,500,000............................. 1 7,900,001 8,000,000............................. 1 Set out below is information in respect of the 10,400,001 10,500,000.......................... 1 five individuals who are not Directors of HSBC Holdings whose emoluments excluding The aggregate remuneration of Directors and commissions or bonuses related to the revenue or Senior Management for the year ended 31 December profits generated by employees individually or 2006 was US$84,316,000.
collectively with others engaged in similar activities The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to were the highest in HSBC for the year ended provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for 31 December 2006.
Directors and Senior Management for the year ended 000 31 December 2006 was US$2,398,312.
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in Executive Directors and members of Senior kind.......................................................... 1,708 Management are generally subject to notice periods Pension contributions.................................. 226 of up to 12 months and a normal retirement age Bonuses paid or receivable.......................... 19,847 Inducements to join paid or receivable....... 2,012 of 65.
The changes became effective on 6 April 2006.
In anticipation of these changes, the Their emoluments are within the following bands: 275 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Corporate responsibility Remuneration Committee established some assist the Groups customers to embrace principles when formulating its policy response: sustainability in their businesses: 1 the cost of pension provision should not risk management providing a policy increase: framework to manage and reduce sustainability risks arising from HSBCs lending and 2 HSBC should not compensate individuals for investment businesses: and changes in the tax regime: and advice providing policy and guidance for 3 HSBC should make available an effective management on sustainability issues as they alternative form of reward where current affect HSBCs corporate real estate portfolio pension provision is no longer tax effective.
HSBC aims for consistency in the Corporate Responsibility implementation of its sustainable development Corporate Responsibility is the term used at HSBC strategy across all Group businesses.
The United to describe the Groups approach to meeting a wide Nations set Millennium Development Goals of range of non-financial responsibilities which, resisting climate change, achieving water purity, although not generally enshrined as legal or encouraging biodiversity and alleviating poverty.
regulatory requirements, constitute behaviour HSBC has identified four themes as relevant to its expected of the Group by its stakeholders, including response.
These are risk management policies and shareholders, customers and employees.
Insofar as processes : business development carbon, water, these expectations concern HSBCs impact on the forestry and microfinance : operations buildings, environmental, social and economic well-being of travel, suppliers and IT : and philanthropy the world at large, Corporate Responsibility education and environment.
influences the Groups response to encouraging In pursuing its strategy, HSBC Holdings sustainable development.
expanded the Group Sustainable Development unit in 2006 to build on existing initiatives and focus on Investing in sustainability business development opportunities related to the HSBC seeks to meet societys expectations by United Nations four development goals.
managing all aspects of its business ethically, In 2005, HSBC was the first major banking responsibly and in an increasingly sustainable way.
organisation in the world to become carbon neutral.
The Groups key business values include a This was achieved by a three-stage carbon commitment to the highest personal standards of management plan: to manage and reduce the integrity at all levels and to honesty, transparency Groups direct emissions: to reduce the carbon and fair dealing in all its business activities.
In recent intensity of the electricity HSBC uses by buying years HSBC has intensified its efforts to embed green electricity where feasible: and to offset the sustainability into the way it manages risk and remaining carbon dioxide emissions by purchasing business development opportunities.
acknowledges that HSBCs continuing financial success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and During 2006, HSBCs leadership position in address non-financial considerations which are managing its carbon footprint attracted wide-ranging material to the business.
public interest and led to a marked growth in business opportunities presented to the Group in Recognising that HSBCs core financial services areas such as energy efficiency, low carbon businesses have the potential to exert the most technologies and renewable energy.
In recognition of influence over sustainability issues, a Group this, and to help clients respond to the challenges and Sustainable Development unit was formed in 2005 to opportunities of creating a lower carbon economy, work closely with these businesses in all customer HSBC launched its carbon finance strategy in 2006. groups to help them to manage sustainability risks In essence, HSBC will continue to support fossil fuel and to pursue opportunities in environmental electricity generation within the parameters of the markets worldwide.
The unit reports directly to the Equator Principles and sector-specific risk policies Group Chief Operating Officer.
while working with clients to promote clean energy Group Sustainable Development has three main generation and energy-efficient renewable energy objectives: technologies.
business development helping HSBC to HSBCs approach to business opportunity is identify and develop business opportunities that complemented by its management of risk.
The 276 Groups Sustainable Risk Advisory Unit has Co-ordinators based in each country in which HSBC published policies laying down minimum standards operates.
for lending and investment covering relationships Despite the considerable international pressure with clients in energy, forest land and products, on terrorist networks over the past few years, the freshwater infrastructure and the chemicals industry, global threat from terrorism persists.
HSBC remains all focusing on how HSBCs involvement in these committed to maintaining its preparedness and to environmentally sensitive industries can contribute ensuring the highest standards of health and safety to sustainable development.
wherever in the world it operates.
Group Security provides regular risk Community involvement assessments in areas of increased risk to assist HSBC sees value and opportunity from aligning its management in judging the level of terrorist threat.
longstanding commitment to the environment with In addition, Regional Security functions conduct its core strategic themes.
In 2006, for example, the regular security reviews to ensure measures to HSBC Global Education Trust launched Future protect HSBC staff, buildings, assets and First, a five-year programme designed to help street information are appropriate for the level of threat.
children, children in care and orphans, under which HSBCs operations around the world will collaborate Supplier payment policy with local charitable organisations to make a lasting and beneficial difference by supporting projects that HSBC Holdings subscribes to the Better Payment bring these children into the mainstream of society.
Practice Code for all suppliers, the four principles of The programme complements HSBCs sustainable which are: to agree payment terms at the outset and business development focus on poverty, for which a stick to them: to explain payment procedures to microfinance strategy was developed during 2006. suppliers: to pay bills in accordance with any contract agreed with the supplier or as required by In recognition of its leadership in merging law: and to tell suppliers without delay when an social, environmental and business objectives, invoice is contested and settle disputes quickly.
HSBC was named as overall winner in the first Financial Times Sustainable Banking Awards in Copies of, and information about, the Code are 2006.
The awards, in association with the available from: The Department of Trade and International Finance Corporation, drew 90 entries Industry, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H 0ET: and from 48 financial institutions around the world.
addition to initiatives noted above, HSBC It is HSBC Holdings practice to organise highlighted Investing in Nature, its US$50 million, payment to its suppliers through a central accounts five-year eco-partnership with Earthwatch Institute, function operated by its subsidiary, HSBC Bank.
WWF and Botanic Gardens Conservation Included in the balance with HSBC Bank is the International.
amount due to trade creditors which, at 31 December Also in 2006, HSBCs Group Head Office 2006, represented 20 days average daily purchases building in London achieved an overall rating of of goods and services received from such creditors, Excellent for site management and operation under calculated in accordance with the Companies Act the Environmental Assessment Method run by the 1985, as amended by Statutory Instrument 1997 571.
Building Research Establishment, the UKs leading environmental standards authority.
Donations During the year, HSBC made charitable donations Health and safety totalling US$86.3 million.
Of this amount, The maintenance of appropriate health and safety US$32.8 million was given for charitable purposes standards throughout HSBC remains a key in the UK.
responsibility of all managers and HSBC is No political donations were made during the committed to managing actively all health and safety year.
risks associated with its business.
HSBCs objectives are to identify, remove, reduce or control material At the Annual General Meeting in 2003, risks of fires and of accidents or injuries to shareholders gave authority for HSBC Holdings and employees and visitors.
HSBC Bank to make EU political donations and incur EU political expenditure up to a maximum Health and Safety Policies, Group standards and aggregate sum of 250,000 and 50,000 respectively procedures are set by Group Corporate Real Estate over a four-year period as a precautionary measure and are implemented by Health, Safety and Fire 277 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Corporate responsibility Shareholders in light of the wide definitions in The Political preference share was paid on 15 March, 15 June, Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
These 15 September and 15 December 2006. authorities have not been used.
Dividends for 2007 Corporate responsibility reporting The proposed timetables for the interim dividends in HSBC provides information in its Corporate respect of 2007 on the ordinary shares of US$0.50 Responsibility Report and website are given in the Shareholder Information section on www.
com cr on the extent to which it has pages 435 and 436. complied with its environmental, social and ethical A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per Series A policies.
Aspects covered include: how HSBC is dollar preference share equivalent to a dividend of implementing and applying the Equator Principles to US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, manage the environmental and social risks in project each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A finance: employee diversity: environmental dollar preference share was declared on 12 February management: and health and safety.
HSBC is using 2007 for payment on 15 March 2007. the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative in producing its 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Communication with shareholders Third party scrutiny of the assertions made in the report is provided through an assurance process Communication with shareholders is given high conducted by Den Norske Veritas.
Extensive information about HSBCs participates in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, activities is provided in the Annual Report and FTSE4Good and Business in the Communitys Accounts, Annual Review and the Interim Report Environment Index.
HSBCs Corporate which are sent to shareholders and are available on Responsibility Report 2006 will be available at www.
There is regular dialogue with www.
com crreport from May 2007. institutional investors and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholdings and the Shareholders business of HSBC are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner.
All Dividends for 2006 shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting or the informal meeting of First, second and third interim dividends for 2006, shareholders held in Hong Kong to discuss the each of US$0.15 per ordinary share, were paid on progress of HSBC.
6 July 2006, 4 October 2006, and 18 January 2007 respectively.
Note 11 on the Financial Statements gives more information on the dividends declared in Notifiable interests in share capital 2006.
On 5 March 2007, the Directors declared a According to the register maintained by HSBC fourth interim dividend for 2006 of US$0.17 per Holdings up to 20 January 2007 pursuant to section ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will 211 of the Companies Act 1985: be payable to ordinary shareholders on 10 May 2007 in cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong Kong Legal and General Investment Management dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 30 Limited gave notice on 11 June 2002 that it had April 2007, with a scrip dividend alternative.
As the an interest on 10 June 2002 in 284,604,788 fourth interim dividend for 2006 was declared after HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, representing the balance sheet date it has not been included as a 3.01 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue at creditor at 31 December 2006.
The reserves that date: and available for distribution at 31 December 2006 are Barclays PLC gave notice on 6 December 2006 US$12,045 million.
that it had an interest on 29 November 2006 in A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20 per 438,557,151 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, cent non-cumulative US dollar preference share, representing 3.79 per cent of the ordinary shares Series A Series A dollar preference share, in issue at that date.
equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A Since 20 January 2007, no disclosures of major American Depositary Share, each of which shareholdings have been made to the Company represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar pursuant to the requirements of the Financial Services Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
278 There are no notifiable interests in the equity Resolutions to receive the Annual Report share capital recorded in the register maintained and Accounts and to approve the Directors under section 336 of the Securities and Futures Remuneration Report, the re-election of Directors Ordinance of Hong Kong.
and the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor will be submitted to the Annual General In compliance with the Rules Governing the Meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of willingness to continue in office and the Group Hong Kong Limited at least 25 per cent of the total Audit Committee and the Board have recommended issued share capital of HSBC Holdings has been held that they be reappointed.
Resolutions will also be by the public at all times during 2006 and up to the submitted to the Annual General Meeting to renew date of this Report.
the authorities for the allotment of shares, the disapplication of pre-emption rights, the purchase of Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares ordinary shares, the scrip dividend alternative, political donations and expenditure, and to seek Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC approval for shareholder electronic communications Bank, HSBC Financial Products France and The pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 and for changes Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, to the articles of association.
which are members of a European Economic Area exchange, neither HSBC Holdings nor any A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting subsidiary undertaking has bought, sold or redeemed will be available on www.
From shortly any securities of HSBC Holdings during the year after the conclusion of the Meeting until 30 June ended 31 December 2006.
2007 a recording of the proceedings will be available on www.
Annual General Meeting On behalf of the Board The Annual General Meeting of HSBC Holdings S K Green, Group Chairman 5 March 2007 will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on Friday 25 May 2007 at 11.00am.
