Corporate Governance Corporate Governance statement that the board worked effectively the annual operating and capital The revised Combined Code on within this structure.
Going forward, expenditure budgets: Corporate Governance, issued by the David Gelber will not be standing for any changes to the Companys Financial Reporting Council in re-election at the forthcoming Annual capital structure or its status as a July 2003, formally applied to the General Meeting.
With the exception listed company: Company for the first time for the of David Gelber and the Chairman, risk management strategy: and year ended 31 March 2005.
As all the non-executive directors are treasury policy.
required by the Listing Rules issued independent of management and by the UK Listing Authority, this considered by the board to be free from Information, including monthly section on corporate governance any business or other relationships management accounts, is provided together with the Report on which could interfere with the exercise in a timely and regular manner to Directors Remuneration details how of their independence.
Biographies of directors for all meetings to enable the Company has applied the each of the directors and details of them to exercise their judgement principles set out in the Combined their membership of board committees in the discharge of their duties.
Code and includes additional are given on pages 24 to 25.
In addition senior executives below disclosures, where appropriate.
The board level attend certain board directors believe that during the year, Board nominations are recommended meetings and make presentations on with the exception of the composition to the board by the Nomination the results and strategies of their of the board structure, they have fully Committee under its terms of businesses.
All directors have access complied with the provisions of the reference.
to the advice and services of the Combined Code.
Group Company Secretary who is The appointment of David Gelber as responsible for ensuring that board Directors a non-executive director was not procedures and applicable rules are Directors and the board subject to an external search or open observed.
Procedures exist to enable The Company is headed by an advertising as the board considered the directors to obtain independent experienced board of directors him to be the most appropriate professional advice in respect of consisting of a non-executive candidate for appointment following their duties.
Chairman, Group Chief Executive his retirement as the Group Chief Officer, three further executive Operating Officer.
His appointment as There is a clear division of the roles directors and five non-executive a non-executive director was for a and the responsibilities of the directors.
The board meets at least fixed period of one year from 13 July Chairman and Group Chief Executive six times a year, with three meetings 2005.
Officer, which are set out in writing, being held overseas.
the Chairman being responsible for In accordance with the Combined leadership of the board and ensuring The board has a schedule of matters Code and the Companys Articles of effective communication with specifically reserved to it for decision Association all directors are subject shareholders and the Group Chief and approval which include, but are to re-appointment by shareholders at Executive Officer being responsible not limited to: the first opportunity following their for leading and managing the the Groups long-term objectives appointment and, subsequently, must business.
Duncan Goldie-Morrison is and commercial strategy: seek re-election at least once every the Senior Independent Director.
acquisitions, disposals and major three years.
Since the retirement of David Gelber investments: in July 2005 as Group Chief the Groups annual and interim New directors to the board are Operating Officer and his subsequent Financial Statements: provided with appropriate training and appointment as a non-executive any significant change in briefings which take into account director, the composition of the board accounting policies or practices: their individual qualifications and is not in compliance with the any interim dividend and experience.
All directors receive, Combined Code in that the number of recommendation of the final during their term of office, regular independent non-executive directors dividend: briefings on changes and is less than the number of executive developments in the Groups directors.
The directors considered 32 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Board and committee attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Risk Treasury Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the financial year 2005 06 6 4 3 1 7 11 Charles Gregson 6 6 1 1 Michael Spencer 6 6 1 1 Nicholas Cosh 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 2 David Gelber 6 6 2 2 8 11 Duncan Goldie-Morrison 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Stephen McDermott 6 6 7 7 James McNulty 6 6 3 3 1 1 2 2 William Nabarro 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Jim Pettigrew 6 6 4 7 11 11 Mark Yallop 5 5 6 6 6 8 appointed 13 July 2005 business and legislative and number of committees, each of reviewing the Groups internal regulatory changes which are which has detailed terms of financial controls and risk relevant to the Group.
management systems: The minutes of each of the assessing the independence, The removal and appointment of the committees are made available objectivity and effectiveness of the Group Company Secretary are to all directors and the board external auditors: reserved to the board.
On 9 January receives an oral update from each developing and implementing 2006, the board approved the committees Chairman.
policies on the engagement of the appointment of Deborah Abrehart as external auditors for the supply of Group Company Secretary following a Audit Committee non-audit services: the resignation of Helen Broomfield.
The committee comprises three making recommendations for the independent non-executive directors.
appointment, re-appointment and During the year the board evaluated The directors who served on the removal of the external auditors its performance and that of its committee during the year are: and approving their remuneration committees and individual directors.
and terms of engagement: This was done by way of a Nicholas Cosh FCA Chairman monitoring and reviewing the questionnaire which was completed Duncan Goldie-Morrison effectiveness of the Groups by each director to evaluate William Nabarro internal audit function: and effectiveness and accountability.
reviewing arrangements by which The results of this exercise were The committees full terms of staff may, in confidence, raise then summarised to the board by reference are available on the concerns about possible the Chairman.
The Chairmans Groups website, www.
com, or improprieties in matters of performance was evaluated by the from the Group Company Secretary.
financial reporting or other matters.
non-executive directors led by the Senior Independent Director who The Audit Committee is responsible Appointments to the committee are then provided the Chairman with the for: made by the board on the results of this evaluation.
monitoring the integrity of the recommendation of the Groups Groups Financial Statements and Nomination Committee following The board manages the Group any announcements relating to the consultation with the Chairman of the through board meetings and a Groups financial performance: Audit Committee.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 33 Corporate Governance continued The board has satisfied itself that to the circumstances of the Group.
of the external auditors is not collectively the committee possesses compromised by any non-audit work recent and relevant financial In the course of the year the performed.
Any proposed non-audit experience to enable the committee committee was kept up to date assignments, with fees in excess to function effectively and to on developments in accounting of 50,000, are subject to the discharge its responsibilities.
standards and their likely impact on committees prior review and the Groups Financial Statements.
As part of its consideration The committee meets four times a This has also included receiving of the annual Financial Statements year with meetings coinciding with regular updates on the Groups the committee has reviewed and is the start of the external audit transition to IFRS, details of which satisfied that the auditors have cycle, the financial year end and are given in the OFR.
remained independent of the Group the publication of the annual and during the financial year and continue interim Financial Statements.
The During the year, the committee to do so to the date of this report.
attendance record of committee received regular reports on the work The committee also received details members is set out above.
Also in of the outsourced internal audit from  LLP of attendance at such meetings, by department and reviewed the its own independence procedures invitation only, are the Chairman, authority, scope of work, resources and confirmation that, in its opinion, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group and effectiveness of the function.
it remained independent throughout Finance Director, Ernst & Young as The Ernst & Young representative has the year.
internal auditor and representatives direct access to the Audit Committee from the external auditors.
The committee Management is responsible for Chairman of the Audit Committee also considered the external maintaining an effective system of also maintains contact with those auditors Group management letter internal controls with the board attendees throughout the year.
At the on accounting procedures and being responsible for reviewing its end of each committee meeting systems of internal financial control.
To assist the board representatives from Ernst & Young in this duty, the committee reviews as internal auditor and the external During the financial year, the the Groups internal financial controls auditors are given the opportunity to committee reviewed the effectiveness and risk management systems.
raise any issues, in private, without of the external audit process and Details of the steps taken by the management being present.
the qualification, expertise and committee to review the effectiveness resources of the external auditors.
of the Groups system of internal The Chairman of the Audit Committee The committee also reviewed and control are set out below.
reports on the committees approved the proposed audit fee deliberations and any significant and terms of engagement for the The committee has previously issues that may have arisen to the 2005 06 audit and has reviewed the whistleblowing board meeting following each recommended to the board that it arrangements within the Group and is meeting of the committee.
Minutes of propose to shareholders that satisfied that such arrangements are each committee meeting are provided  LLP be restill appropriate.
appointed as the Groups external auditors.
It also monitored the b Nomination Committee In the 2005 06 financial year, the balance of audit and non-audit fees The committee comprises the committee reviewed the Groups to ensure that the independence and Chairman, four non-executive annual and interim Financial objectivity of the external auditors is directors and one executive director: Statements, prior to their approval by maintained.
In doing this it ensured William Nabarro Chairman that accounting policies adopted, The committee monitors the boards Nicholas Cosh judgements and disclosures made in policy as to the types of non-audit Duncan Goldie-Morrison the preparation of those Financial work that can and cannot be Charles Gregson Statements were the most appropriate undertaken by the external auditors James McNulty to ensure that the independence Michael Spencer 34 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 The committee recommends to the It is the boards responsibility to Annual General Meeting provides board appointments for the role of determine the Groups risk appetite shareholders with an opportunity to Chairman, Group Chief Executive and identify, monitor and assess the receive information on the Groups Officer, executive and non-executive significant risks the Group may be business performance and to directors.
The procedure for exposed to.
The committee is question senior management on any appointments is set out in its terms responsible for developing procedures business matters.
of reference and the committee for managing risk in line with board meets as required.
The committees approved policies and limits.
This The Group has an established full terms of reference are available includes establishing and maintaining programme of communication with its on the Companys website, an adequate, sound and appropriate institutional investors and analysts.
com, or from the Group internal control structure, evaluating At the time of the announcement Company Secretary.
its effectiveness and promptly of the final and interim results, identifying material weaknesses and presentations are made to analysts, c Remuneration Committee taking corrective steps.
the press and institutional investors.
The Report on Directors Remuneration In addition, there are regular is set out on pages 38 to 47.
The Chairman of the Group Risk meetings during the year subject to Committee reports to the board.
relevant regulatory constraints with d Group Risk Committee analysts and investors to update The committee comprises: e Treasury Committee them on developments in the Groups The committee, which comprises strategy and performance.
Mark Yallop appointed Chairman such persons as are appointed by 13 July 2005 the board who may or may not be Accountability and audit Bruce Collins Chief Executive Asia directors, is chaired by the Group Directors responsibilities Pacific appointed 13 July 2005 Finance Director.
It meets The directors' statement regarding George Macdonald Chief Executive approximately monthly and is their responsibility for preparing the Officer, London and Europe responsible for developing, Group's Financial Statements is set Stephen McDermott implementing and monitoring Group out in the Directors' Report on page Philip Moyse Group Chief Risk Officer treasury policies as approved by 31 and the Independent Auditors Jim Pettigrew the board.
Further details on the Report regarding their reporting activities of the Treasury Committee responsibility is detailed on page 48.
David Gelber retired as Chairman and during 2005 06 are provided in a member of the committee on the OFR.
Nicholas Cosh and General James McNulty served as members Relations and dialogue with As with all businesses the Group until 17 November 2005. shareholders faces and manages a number of The board is accountable to the risks.
The board is responsible for The committee is responsible for Companys shareholders for the setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that the Groups risk performance and activities of the for ensuring that the Groups risk management framework, risk Group and is very much aware of the management processes are appropriate appetite, risk strategy and policies importance of maintaining good and operating effectively.
It does this are appropriate to the activities of relations and communications with through two board committees the Group.
The committee reviews all its shareholders.
All annual and Group Risk and Treasury.
the Groups risk exposures and interim Financial Statements and ensures adherence to the Groups Stock Exchange announcements are The board examines, on an ongoing risk policy particularly in relation to posted on the investor relations basis, the effectiveness of the credit, market and operational risk.
section of the Groups website, internal controls within the Group It also reviews major new business www.
com, as soon as they are by way of an operational risk initiatives to ensure that a proper released and major shareholder assessment process.
This process consideration of risks has been presentations are also available.
involves senior business and support undertaken at the outset.
The board recognises that the Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 35 Corporate Governance continued management identifying the key Market risk can arise in those Operational risk operational risks facing their instances where one or both During the year the Group has business area and the controls counterparties in a matched principal continued to review the results of the in place to manage, monitor and transaction fail to fulfil their risk and controls identification and mitigate those risks.
At the end obligations i. e. an initially unsettled assessment processes and resulting of the year a summary report is transaction or through trade corrective actions required to produced confirming that those mismatches or other errors.
The risk address the issues highlighted.
controls have been in operation in these situations is restricted to The Group Risk Committee has throughout the year.
short-term price movements in the introduced a loss data collection underlying stock held by the Group process for Europe and North Credit and market risk and movements in foreign exchange America to supplement the risk The Group transacts business on an rates.
Any such market risk arising is identification process and to provide agency or matched principal basis.
In identified, monitored and reported to validation of the probability and its role as an intermediary matching senior Group management on a daily impact of the risks identified and buyers and sellers, its exposure to basis and the Group Risk Committee the effectiveness of the controls credit and market risk is limited.
Policies and environment in mitigating the probability However, the Group has established procedures exist to reduce the and impact of the risks.
This process policies and procedures to mitigate likelihood of such trade mismatches will be rolled out on a global basis further its exposure to both credit and, in the event that they arise, the during 2006.
Process and work flow and market risk.
Groups policy is to close out such mapping has also been introduced in positions immediately or, with senior Europe and North America to ensure Credit risk arises from the potential management approval, to carry them that all significant processes in the that a counterparty is unable to with an appropriate hedge in place main business activities and support perform on an obligation resulting for the shortest possible period.
All counterparties are subject to regular In some parts of its business the Treasury risk review and assessment by regional Group, acting in its interdealer The Groups Treasury Committee credit officers who then propose broker capacity, engages in complex manages and monitors the Groups for approval, by the Group Risk and sometimes very substantial free cash resources to ensure, inter Committee, appropriate limits taking structured transactions developed by alia, that any country or institutional into account the creditworthiness of its highly-rated counterparties.
These risk arising from the deposit of the counterparty and the nature of transactions are fully matched and such funds is managed and that the business they transact with the do not involve the Group taking the rate of return on such funds is Group.
Limits set are based on principal positions.
In addition, the Treasury Group set parameters determining Committee manages the Groups the maximum loss that the Group can The Group does, in certain very exposure to foreign currency and suffer as a result of a counterparty limited circumstances, take positions, interest rate risk.
Where appropriate, country usually in highly illiquid markets, limits are applied to limit the primarily for customer facilitation Internal control exposure of a company within the purposes and these can give rise to The board of directors is responsible Group to that country.
Regional credit market risk in the event of any price for the Groups system of internal officers monitor the limits given and movement.
Such risks are monitored control and for reviewing its their utilisation and are required to and controlled by the setting of limits effectiveness.
Such a system of approve all exceptions and report and the use of hedging arrangements internal control is designed to these to the Group Risk Committee.
These very manage rather than eliminate the Typically, the Groups counterparties limited activities will cease before risk of failure to achieve business are highly credit rated, large financial 31 December 2006 in order that objectives, and can only provide institutions.
the Group can comply with the new reasonable and not absolute CRD requirements.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
36 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 As referred to above there is an to these regulations is monitored, regular reports from both the ongoing process for identifying, where applicable, by local compliance external and internal auditors on evaluating and managing the officers who report regularly, via the the internal control systems significant risks faced by the Group.
Group Compliance Officer Europe, operating within the Group.
This has been in place throughout to the board.
the year under review and up to the The board, through the Audit date of approval of these Financial Committee, has conducted an annual Statements.
By order of the board review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering The key elements of the internal all controls including financial, control system are: operational and compliance controls a comprehensive budgetary Deborah Abrehart and risk management systems.
process, with both annual and Group Company Secretary regular forecasts being considered The Group has investments in a and approved by the board: number of joint ventures and monthly monitoring of trading associated companies.
Where the results, balance sheet and cash Group is not directly involved in the flow against budget and prior management of the investment it periods with significant variances can influence, through board being investigated and appropriate representation, but not control the action taken: internal control systems present in formulation and review of specific those entities.
The boards review of policy covering credit, market, the effectiveness of the system of operational and treasury risks internal controls in those entities is faced by the business: consequently less comprehensive regular visits to Group operating than in its directly owned companies by board members and subsidiaries.
senior management: all transactions authorised in Regulation accordance with delegated The Group is regulated on a authority limits approved by the consolidated basis by the UK board: Financial Services Authority FSA regular internal audit visits to with the Groups UK businesses Group operating companies to being authorised by the FSA to carry carry out reviews of systems and on regulated activities within the procedures and compliance with UK.
The FSA adopts a risk-based Group policies: approach to supervision and does senior management within each this in various ways including the region have responsibility for the review of prudential returns, visits establishment of appropriate to firms and meetings with senior control frameworks within their management.
In the US, the operations to ensure compliance Groups activities are regulated by with Group policies, procedures the Securities and Exchange and standards.
The Group operates in responsible for ensuring that risks other countries and its operations within their businesses are are subject to relevant local identified, assessed, controlled regulatory requirements.
Adherence and monitored on an ongoing basis: and Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 37
