indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 14 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 26 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance the Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate being, stand for election or re-election.
As British Energy group plc held governance are maintained by the group.
in particular the Board its first AgM during the year, all Directors were required to stand for considers that it complies with the relevant provisions of section 1 of election at that AgM.
in order to comply with the provisions of rule A.
7 the Combined Code on Corporate governance published by the of the Combined Code, all Directors are required to seek re-election at Financial reporting Council in July 2003.
Corporate governance best least every three years.
the Companys policy is that Directors should practice is also monitored, and appropriate recommendations from retire at the first AgM after their 66th birthday.
relevant professional bodies are also adopted.
Conduct of Business The Board the Board usually meets monthly and meets sufficiently regularly to Membership discharge its duties effectively.
it usually meets at least 11 times in any sir Adrian Montague held office as Chairman throughout the year.
Bill year, and met 13 times during the year.
there is contact amongst the Coley, formerly an independent non-Executive Director of the Company Directors between Board meetings as necessary to progress the accepted the position of Chief Executive following the resignation of Companys business.
Mike Alexander, the previous Chief Executive, on 20 March 2005. his appointment became effective on 14 April 2005 when he received the Although the normal operational management of the Company has relevant documentation to work in the uK.
the other Executive Directors been delegated to the Chief Executive, the Board has a number of are roy Anderson, Chief nuclear officer and stephen Billingham, matters reserved to it, particularly appropriate strategic, financial and Finance Director.
in addition there are currently seven further nonorganisational matters.
these are considered at the Boards monthly Executive Directors following the appointment of Bob Davies, effective meetings.
the Board receives reports covering operational, financial, from 1 May 2006.
Biographies of the Directors are set out on page 25. safety, risk management and regulatory performance to assist it in identifying key issues for the business on a regular and timely basis.
the Chief Executive is responsible for safety throughout the group.
Where appropriate, matters have been delegated to Board Committees, all of which have written constitutions and terms of reference.
the the Directors are satisfied that the Company complies with the sections terms of reference for all Board Committees can be found on our of the Combined Code concerning the balance of the Board.
Further details of the individual the year, the number of non-Executive Directors was greater than the Directors and executive team, their roles and membership of the various number of Executive Directors, with three Executive and six noncommittees are identified on pages 24 and 25.
Executive Directors in addition to the Chairman.
sir Adrian Montague held an executive office with British Energy plc temporarily for part of the All of the non-Executive Directors serving on the Board have held and or financial year ending 31 March 2003 following his appointment as hold senior positions in other major organisations either in the uK or Executive Chairman in november 2002 and as such is not considered internationally.
Each of them is involved in decision-making on key to be independent.
the other non-Executive Directors are all considered issues facing the group and collectively bring with them a wide range of to be independent.
the Companys independent non-Executive experience to the Board.
the non-Executive Directors of the Company Directors are currently: meet as a group from time to time without Executive Directors present and from time to time also meet without the Chairman present.
Clare spottiswoode pascal Colombani All Directors may obtain training and independent professional advice at Bob Davies the Companys expense and all Directors have access to the advice John Delucca and services of robert Armour, the Company secretary, who is ian harley accountable to the Board through the Chairman on all corporate David pryde governance matters.
sir robert Walmsley Performance Evaluation Clare spottiswoode was the Companys senior independent nonperformance evaluation of the Board, Chairman and individual Directors Executive Director and Deputy Chairman throughout the year.
the and the effectiveness of individual Board Committees and the remuneration Committee report on pages 31 to 38 provides further committee structure was carried out during the year using a detailed details of appointments to and resignations from the Board.
questionnaire which was completed by the Board and the executive management.
A report on the key findings was issued to the Board in Bob Davies was appointed to the Board as an independent nonMarch 2006. the report identified various actions designed to improve Executive Director on 1 May 2006 and will stand for election at the the effectiveness of the conduct of the Boards business including an Companys forthcoming Annual general Meeting AgM.
enhanced training programme for new and existing Directors and a greater emphasis on strategic issues.
the Board will assess its the Company entered the FtsE 100 index of companies in January performance in implementing the actions in the coming year.
the 2006. sir Adrian Montague has remained as Chairman since the groups committee structure is monitored by the Board and reviewed Company joined that index, and is also Chairman of Friends provident when necessary to ensure its continued effectiveness.
Each of the plc, an existing member of the FtsE 100. the Board is satisfied in these Board Committees reviewed its performance during the year and agreed circumstances not only that his chairmanship of both companies does actions to improve the conduct of that committees business.
the not constitute a breach of rule A.
4.3 of the Combined Code, but that results of the evaluations were also considered by the governance and he remains able to devote sufficient time and attention to the nominations Committee and subsequently the Board.
in the year ahead Companys business.
the Board does not believe that the current the Board has decided that the nprC should be given a wider remit as position has had any adverse impact on the Boards operations, and is the technical and Advisory Committee tAC and the trading review satisfied that in these circumstances, it is appropriate for him to Committee should be known as the risk review Committee and include continue as Chairman.
the Companys Articles of Association provide within its remit a periodic review of risk management processes other that at each AgM any Director who has been appointed by the Board than management processes for technical risk which shall be reviewed since the previous AgM is required to retire and may seek re-election, periodically by the tAC.
together with such other Directors so as to ensure that the number nearest to but not less than one third of the Directors, for the time British EnErgy group plc 27 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance Risk Management position is settled through the balancing mechanism at generally the Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk unfavourable prices.
the Company aims to sell all planned nuclear and control, and management is responsible for designing, operating output forward and to minimise exposure to the balancing mechanism.
and monitoring risk and control processes which implement Board the risks in the wholesale market are managed through a contracting policies effectively.
in accordance with the revised turnbull guidance, strategy that builds a portfolio of forward contracts of different lengths.
risk management and internal control are considered by the Board and its committees during the year.
Further details on the groups present the trading review Committee, a committee of the Board, monitors committee structure appear below.
energy trading activities and risks which are controlled through delegated authorities within an overall energy trading risk management the risk management process operating throughout the year and up to policy.
there are procedures for setting limits on market and operational the date of approval of the report was based on the identification, risks and managing credit and collateral exposure to trading and mitigation and monitoring of the key risks that influence the Companys financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
Committee Structure the Board periodically reviews the groups business objectives and the the Chairman of each committee reports to the Board following each risks and controls associated with these business objectives.
specific committee meeting, on decisions taken or endorsed and makes categories of risk are also reviewed by appropriate committees, including recommendations as appropriate to the Board.
the Board may delegate the group risk Management Committee grMC and by subsidiary authority to each of the committees where the subject of the delegation boards.
risks reviewed by the Board include: does not require Board approval.
the papers for each committee are made available to all Board members, other than those for the safe operation of our plant: remuneration Committee and the governance and nominations operational risks including reliability, output, plant condition and Committee, which are only circulated to independent members or as human performance: those committees may direct.
the Chief Executive reports to the Board the financial position of the group: each month on the decisions or recommendations of the Executive changes in energy markets: Committee.
the committee structure is intended to allow the nuclear safety and safety regulations: committees to scrutinise performance in more detail than the Board commercial and environmental regulation: could achieve in full session and so allows the Board to focus to a policy proposals by legislative bodies in the markets in which we greater extent on strategic issues.
operate: treasury and trading financial exposures including collateral: it is the Companys policy that committees are provided with sufficient major contracts: and resources to undertake their duties.
the Company may make further the procurement of radioactive waste management services.
changes to committee structures or roles in due course in order to comply with further developments in corporate governance best practice throughout the year the Companys reporting arrangements operated and to ensure the effective and efficient operation of those committees.
across the groups operating subsidiaries and corporate functions, the current terms of reference for each committee are available on the monitoring business performance against key performance indicators Companys website www.
risk logs identifying business risks facing the group as a whole and particular parts of the business were regularly Board Committees considered at subsidiary and divisional level and reported to the groups the current committee structure is described below: executive, and mitigation plans were established and monitored.
the groups principal operating subsidiaries monitored internal control and Audit Committee risk mitigation throughout the year.
in particular, the Board of British the Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent nonEnergy generation Limited, our nuclear subsidiary the generation Executive Directors.
ian harley is Chairman and John Delucca is Deputy Board reviewed the operation of the groups nuclear power stations Chairman of the committee, and they are considered to be the financial and risk and internal control issues affecting the nuclear business.
experts on the Audit Committee.
the Audit Committee has the primary purpose of assisting the Board in overseeing the integrity of the the conduct of risk assessment involves senior management of all of Companys financial statements, and the Companys compliance with the groups business units in addition to the Executive Directors.
the legal and regulatory requirements.
the committee is also responsible for results of these assessments are summarised and reported to the considering and recommending appropriate accounting policies for the Board.
these risk assessments will continue to be used as part of the group, reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control and Companys evaluation of the risks it faces.
compliance procedures within the group and ensuring that it complies with all statutory requirements in relation to the principles, policies and the generation Board reports on management and decommissioning practices adopted in the preparation of the financial statements.
the liabilities to the Board which, in turn, requires to approve the annual committee reviewed risk management processes across the group liabilities report required under the nuclear Liabilities Funding including actions to mitigate or control key risks facing the group.
the committee receives reports from both external and internal auditors in relation to matters arising from their work and is also Electricity Trading Risk Management responsible for encouraging and monitoring the adoption of best Electricity trading activities predominantly relate to supporting the practice in corporate governance.
our trading department therefore act, in the main, as wholesale marketers rather than as pure financial traders, with the the committee receives reports twice per year from the grMC.
the principal objective of increasing the return on assets while managing the committee reviews the scope and results of the external audit including market risk including the risks relating to collateral requirements the auditors cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and is associated with the output of the power stations.
responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and independence of the external auditors and their under the British Electricity transmission and trading Arrangements remuneration.
it also reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit BEttA, which took effect from 1 April 2005, any mismatch between services provided by the external auditors to the group to ensure that actual metered generation or demand and the notified contract Job: 7005 BE AR06 MID.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 14 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 28 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance these are appropriate, and that a balance of objectivity and value for Trading Review Committee money is maintained.
the committee normally meets the day prior to the trading review Committee, chaired by David pryde, meets every Board meetings and otherwise as required by the business of the second month to review hedging and risk management strategy for Company.
the Audit Committee met 13 times during the year.
trading and to ensure activities are conducted within overall risk limits.
the trading review Committee reviews and provides advice on the Remuneration Committee management and use of risk measurements and control, as well as A separate remuneration Committee report containing details of the monitoring performance against strategy.
it also oversees the activities of the remuneration Committee appears on pages 31 to 38. management and maintenance of the policies, procedures, authorisation and overall risk control framework which is carried out by Governance and Nominations Committee a sub-committee, the trading risk sub-Committee.
the trading review the governance and nominations Committee is comprised entirely of Committee met seven times during the year.
non-Executive Directors and is chaired by sir robert Walmsley.
the committee is responsible for encouraging and monitoring the adoption Other Committees of good corporate governance practice.
it reviews the Companys code Executive Committee of conduct and ethics and compliance with this code and the Chaired by Bill Coley, the Executive Committee comprising the senior Companys legal obligations generally.
the committee also advises on executives, directs the business of the group in accordance with the corporate social responsibility performance of the group and advises delegated authorities from the Board.
the Executive Committee meets the Board in relation to senior appointments throughout the group.
weekly to maintain close scrutiny and management of the groups Board appointments recommended by the committee are made after affairs, directing performance, taking corrective action and ensuring an appropriate search and selection process has been undertaken the Board is kept abreast of all material events.
including, where appropriate, the use of external advisers to identify suitable candidates.
Bob Davies was recently appointed after such a Management Committees and Subsidiary Boards process.
the governance and nominations Committee met nine times throughout the year a number of executive management committees during the year.
and subsidiary boards were used to assist the Directors in controlling the business.
these included the generation Board which directed Safety, Health and Environment Committee operational and safety policy in the groups nuclear operations.
the safety, health and Environment Committee shEC provides advice to the Board in relation to the health and safety of staff, contractors, Group Risk Management Committee visitors and the general public, plant safety and the environmental the group risk Management Committee grMC is an executive performance of the group.
it reviews key safety and environmental risks committee chaired by stephen Billingham.
the grMC meets every two affecting the groups business and the actions taken to mitigate or months to review the group-wide risk management processes of the control them.
it is chaired by sir robert Walmsley and also includes business, maintain an overview of the risks facing the business and three independent experts as well as certain other Directors and senior reports to the Audit Committee twice per year.
the grMC met five managers of the group.
the meetings, which consider both site-specific times during the year.
and generic issues, are held in rotation at the power stations with the station manager and site safety representatives in attendance.
the Pensions Committee shEC met four times during the year.
this is an executive committee which monitors the management of the two group pension schemes and is chaired by the human resources Nuclear Performance Review Committee Director.
the chairmen of the British Energy generation group trustees the nuclear performance review Committee nprC considers and and the British Energy Combined group trustees are members, as are advises the Board and the Executive Committee on issues relating to certain other Directors and senior managers of the group.
the pensions the performance of and improvements to the groups nuclear fleet Committee reviews and advises on the policies being adopted by the including operational performance, performance improvement, plant trustees of these schemes and is responsible for advising the Board reliability, preventative maintenance and materiel condition.
the nprC and reporting to the Audit Committee on all matters relating to these reviews and advises on the implementation and direction of the schemes.
the pensions Committee met three times during the year.
Companys ongoing continuous improvement programme.
the Committee is chaired by Dr pascal Colombani and its membership Disclosure Committee includes sir robert Walmsley, roy Anderson and certain other Executive this management committee reviews the accuracy and completeness of Committee members and senior managers with appropriate technical the Companys proposed financial and certain other public statements expertise.
the Chief Executive, the Chief nuclear officer and executives and or reports.
it is chaired by the group Financial Controller, and who sit on the generation Board continue to have responsibility for and comprises management level representatives of operational and direct the operational and safety policy of the groups nuclear corporate departments from throughout the group.
the nprC met seven times during the year.
Committee met 11 times during the year.
it reports to the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
British EnErgy group plc 29 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance the attendance of Directors at Board and committee meetings of those committees of which they are members in the period is set out in the table below: governance safety, nuclear and health and performance trading Audit remuneration nominations Environment review review # Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 13 13 11 9 4 7 7 sir Adrian Montague 13 Bill Coley 13 7 6 roy Anderson 12 7 stephen Billingham 13 6 Clare spottiswoode 11 9 11 9 6 ian harley 11 12 8 7 pascal Colombani 12 7 8 7 John Delucca 11 13 9 6 David pryde 11 12 9 9 7 sir robert Walmsley 11 11 10 9 4 6 Figures in parentheses refer to the total number of Board or committee meetings during the year # in addition, delegated sub-commitees of the Board meet from time to time for the purposes of considering particular items of business group performance against budget and the latest forecasts for the Organisational Structure there are clearly defined lines of accountability throughout the group.
similarly, each subsidiary and divisional management team meets regularly to monitor performance.
these include strict authorisation approval and control procedures within which senior management operate.
similarly, the senior Internal Compliance and Control management team within each subsidiary or division is responsible for its internal financial controls.
those management teams operate within the Board is responsible for the groups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness.
the identification of key business risks, the an overall framework determined by the Board.
evaluation of their financial and other implications and formulation of Remuneration Policy policies to manage such risks is the responsibility of the Directors.
this We permit Executive Directors to accept external non-executive system is designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, risk directorships provided they do not cause a conflict or inhibit the and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Directors ability to work for the Company.
Each such appointment material misstatement or loss.
including the details of emoluments is subject to Board approval.
During the year Bill Coley held non-executive directorships with peabody Energy the Board assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal Corp receiving fees of $60,750, Ct Communications inc receiving fees controls as of the date of this report.
in making this assessment, the of $23,802 and Er Jahna Management receiving fees of $14,250 in Companys management used the criteria set forth by the Committee the year.
of sponsoring organisations of the treadway Commission Coso in internal Control-integrated Framework.
Investment Approval Compliance with the groups internal financial, risk management and the approval of capital and revenue schemes above certain limits is reserved to the Board.
other investment decisions are delegated other controls is monitored by a number of methods including management reviews and self-certification reports from Directors and for approval in accordance with authority limits.
the group has comprehensive appraisal and monitoring procedures which apply senior officers of each of the key subsidiaries or divisions.
the groups internal audit function is responsible for providing assurance on the to all material investment decisions.
performance of the internal financial and risk management control system and computer operations and reports regularly to the Audit Business Planning A comprehensive business planning and budgeting process to establish Committee.
internal audit work is focused on the areas of highest risk as agreed and prioritised by the Audit Committee.
the scope of work, plans and targets, against which performance is regularly monitored, is undertaken each year.
Key business risks identified during the planning authority and resources of the internal audit function are reviewed by the Audit Committee at least annually.
process are reviewed regularly throughout the year.
the Board receives monthly reports and management accounts and reviews the overall Job: 7005 BE AR06 MID.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 14 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 30 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance steps are being taken to embed internal controls and risk management Going concern further into the operations of the business and to explore areas of the Board considers it appropriate to prepare these consolidated improvement which come to management and the Boards attention.
financial statements and parent company financial statements on a going concern basis because, having reviewed the groups cash flow Sarbanes-Oxley Act position and outlook, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that During the course of the year we reached agreement with holders of our the Company and the group have adequate resources to continue Bonds issued pursuant to the restructuring to end the requirement to operating for the foreseeable future as a going concern.
prepare quarterly reports and annual reports containing the information required to be disclosed as if we were a domestic us issuer, rather Communication with Shareholders and Stakeholders than a foreign private issuer, with the united states securities and the Company recognises the importance of maintaining an ongoing Exchange Commission sEC.
Following the amendment of our Bonds, relationship with its shareholders and stakeholders.
it intends to use its and as disclosed in our notice of Annual general Meeting dated AgM on 20 september 2006 as an opportunity to communicate with 12 August 2005, we subsequently took steps to fide-register from the shareholders, and at that meeting a business presentation will be made sEC and our fide-registration was concluded on 16 March 2006. by the Chief Executive and by other Directors, if appropriate.
it is the Although as a consequence the Company is no longer bound by the Companys policy that all Directors are available to answer shareholders provisions of the sarbanes-oxley Act it has sought to retain the benefit questions at the AgM.
in addition, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, of the compliance work undertaken in respect of the provisions of the the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and the sarbanes-oxley Act.
in particular, we intend to retain the revised senior independent non-Executive Director will meet with the arrangements relating to internal controls over financial and other issues.
Companys principal shareholders on request to discuss relevant issues the Companys policy remains to monitor and implement best practice when they arise.
the Company seeks to ensure that the Directors, in this regard, where appropriate in the Companys circumstances.
particularly the non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through various routes including Corporate Social Responsibility meetings and analysts or brokers briefings.
the Company secretarys the Company will shortly publish a separate Corporate social office responds to numerous letters from shareholders on various issues responsibility report on its website.
this will include details of our throughout the year.
information sent to shareholders and copies of all record on safety and environmental performance.
Further information Company announcements are made available on the Companys on our approach to Corporate social responsibility is contained on website www.
pages 22 and 23. our 2004 05 Corporate social responsibility report is available from the Companys website.
the notice of British Energy group plcs AgM last year held on 15 september 2005, was dispatched to shareholders not less than Confidential Reporting of Serious Concerns 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes received We operate a procedure to allow staff to raise serious concerns, were made available in accordance with the recommendations of the suspicions of fraud or money laundering, suspicious accounting Combined Code.
treatment or practices, and any other suspicious, unsafe or noncompliant activity which an employee may observe on a confidential basis.
in relation to allegations of serious fraud this procedure involves direct referral to an external independent organisation which will record concerns and determine the appropriate person to investigate them Robert Armour and recommend any action required to address resulting issues.
