CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in its management of the Group and when accounting to shareholders.
The management of the Company values an effective long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to the wider range of stakeholders, whilst being accountable for the pursuit of its objectives primarily for the benefit of the Companys owners.
This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2006, the Company has been in compliance with the Combined Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, apart from the requirement for Directors who have served more than nine years being subject to annual re-election.
The Company can confirm that following the 2006 AGM the Company will in future comply with this aspect of the Code.
The Company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards.
Furthermore, the Company must comply fully with the provisions of the NYSE listing standards which relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These provisions incorporate the rules concerning audit committees implemented by the SEC and the NYSE under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The Company has reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believes that its corporate governance practices are consistent with the standards, with the following exception.
The standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors.
The Companys Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is made up of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and the Companys UK listing obligations.
The Company has established a disclosure committee.
The committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members consist of senior managers from group finance, legal and investor relations.
It has responsibility for considering the materiality of information including inside information and on a timely basis, determination of the disclosure and treatment of such information.
The committee also has responsibility for the filing of reports with the SEC and overseeing the process for the formal review of the contents of the Companys Annual Report.
The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of these disclosure controls, procedures and systems at 30 June 2006.
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO of the Company have concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
No change in the Companys internal control over financial reporting has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Corporate policies Our policies aim to enhance and maintain risk management, equality in the workplace, share dealing, work practices on and off-site, and social arrangements.
Copies are readily available to all staff on the intranet.
The Company has also adopted since 2003 a Code of Ethics that applies to the Groups CEO and CFO, who also serves as the principal accounting officer.
The full text of the code of ethics is incorporated by reference to the Annual Report on Form 20-F of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the fiscal year ended 30 June 2003 filed with the SEC on 5 December 2003.
The Board The Board currently comprises fifteen Directors, made up of two Executive Directors and thirteen Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of eight Non-Executive Directors are determined to be independent in compliance with the Combined Code.
They bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element and a foundation for good corporate governance.
Short biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 51 to 53.
The table on page 51 clearly identifies those Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
The Company recognises that all Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
To this end, the Company maintains a directors and officers liability insurance policy which meets defence costs when the director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
The roles of the Chairman, Rupert Murdoch, and CEO, James Murdoch, are separate and the roles have been since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994.
Lord Rothschild holds the position of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
58 The Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
This includes ensuring via the Company Secretary that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, advancing long-term shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is accountable and responsible to the Board for the management and operation of the Company.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors and is responsible for ensuring the Board is supplied with all necessary information in a timely manner.
The Company Secretary ensures good communication between the Board, Board committees and senior management.
He facilitates Directors induction and training.
Board Practices The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year to review appropriate strategic, operational and financial matters as required.
During the financial year, one of these meetings was held over two days when the Board met to review the future strategy and direction of the Group.
Attendance of the current Directors at Board and Committee meetings is set out in the table below: Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN YEAR 8 8 6 3 DIRECTOR Rupert Murdoch, Chairman 8 James Murdoch, CEO 8 Jeremy Darroch, CFO 8 Chase Carey 8 David DeVoe 8 David Evans 7 5 Nicholas Ferguson 7 6 Andrew Higginson 7 7 Allan Leighton 8 7 Jacques Nasser 7 6 Gail Rebuck 78 Lord Rothschild 8 3 Arthur Siskind 8 3 Lord St John of Fawsley 8 Lord Wilson of Dinton 8 3 Remuneration Committee member Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee member Audit Committee member The independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board held a separate meeting during the year.
Board role A schedule of matters reserved for the full Boards determination and or approval is in place, which includes: approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of the Group: approval of the interim and final results: approval of any dividend policy: BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 59 changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including reductions of capital and share buy-backs: the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or arrangements which, whether budgeted or unbudgeted, involves or could reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 100 million in aggregate value: the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or arrangements with News Corporation, any of its subsidiaries, or a related party which involves, or could reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 25 million in aggregate value: approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a general meeting: communication involving the general state of the Company: determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
For further information, matters reserved for the Board can be downloaded from the Companys corporate website at www.
The Board has also delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Governance & Nominations Committees, as set out below.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers several days in advance of Board and Committee meetings and also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Board members have access to external professional advice at the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders following appointment, subsequent re-election by shareholders, and Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
In addition, reappointment for a further term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
All of the Directors are required to retire and offer themselves for re-election at least once in every three years.
A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the CEO and comprises the CFO and other Senior Executives from within the Group.
Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The induction process involves a meeting with all of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
The Directors are also provided with copies of the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures.
Directors regularly receive additional information from the Company between Board meetings, including a monthly report which is sent to all of the Directors updating them on the performance of the Group.
Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged.
For example, over the last financial year the Audit Committee has received specific briefings on the introduction of IFRS and its likely impact on future reporting by the Company.
During the year, the Directors carried out a full evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
The process was carried out internally and was led by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee, with the assistance of the Company Secretary and members of the legal department.
The evaluation confirmed that the Board was satisfied with the Boards overall performance.
During the year, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director held a formal meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive Directors present, to discuss the functioning of the Board.
There was also a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to evaluate his performance led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Following this years review the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and Board have confirmed that all Directors standing for reelection at the forthcoming AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Chase Carey, Nicholas Ferguson, James Murdoch and Jacques Nasser retire from the Board by rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for reelection at the 2006 AGM.
Lord St John of Fawsley will also retire from the Board by rotation at the 2006 AGM but will not be seeking re-election by the shareholders.
Arthur Siskind, David DeVoe and Rupert Murdoch are subject to annual reappointment in accordance with requirement A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, as they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than 9 years.
Following the 2006 AGM the Company will be in full compliance with the Combined Code.
Board Committees Terms of reference for the Board Committees can be found on the Companys corporate website.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas Ferguson Chairman, David Evans and Jacques Nasser, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference, meets at least twice a year, and takes advice from the CEO and independent consultants as appropriate in carrying out its work.
Following publication of the annual report we arrange meetings and round-table discussions 60 between the Remuneration Committee and institutional shareholders to discuss remuneration policy and aspects of the Committees Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Rupert Murdoch and David DeVoe have a standing invitation to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
The Report on Directors Remuneration can be found on pages 63 to 72.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Report on Directors Remuneration will be put forward for an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Wilson of Dinton and its other members are Lord Rothschild and Arthur Siskind.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee met three times during the year.
Its main duties include: the identification and nomination, for approval by the Board, of candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise: the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the Board, taking into consideration the present balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and to recommend any changes to the Board or succession planning: the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out clearly what is expected of new appointees to the Board, in terms of time commitment, term of office and committee service as well as their duties and liabilities as a Director, including details of the Companys corporate governance policies and directors & officers liability insurance cover: the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable Corporate Governance Codes and other similar requirements.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee has in the past used the services of external recruitment advisors when seeking to appoint a Director to the Board.
There have been no nominations to the Board during this year.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee led the evaluation of the Board that was completed during the year as discussed earlier in this report.
The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and recommended to the Board that there be no changes to the independent status of the current Non-Executive Directors.
The table on page 51 clearly sets out those Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee also reviewed the letter of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors have signed letters of appointment with the Company.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors, has clearly defined terms of reference as laid down by the Board.
The composition of the Audit Committee is currently Allan Leighton Chairman, Gail Rebuck and Andrew Higginson.
The CFO and representatives from the external auditor and the internal auditor attend meetings at the request of the Audit Committee.
It is also usual practice for the CEO to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other finance and business executives attend meetings from time to time and the Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a nonvoting capacity.
All three members of the Audit Committee are independent for the purposes of the Combined Code and rule 10.
3 b 1 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The members have wide ranging experience to bring to the work of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met eight times during the year.
Its duties include: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and discussing with the external auditors the nature, scope and fees for the external auditors work: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the approval, or any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and annual financial statements of the Group: reviewing and approving the Groups US Annual Report on Form 20-F prior to its filing: reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 61 reviewing the Groups treasury policies: recommending the appointment of the Groups Director of Internal Audit: reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal audit function: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is a major shareholder in the Group.
The Audit Committee receives, on a quarterly basis, a schedule of all transactions between companies within the News Corporation Group and the Group, and any other related party transactions, showing all transactions which have been entered into during the year and which cumulatively exceed 100,000 in value.
Furthermore, Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or arrangements with News Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or any other related party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million in aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any transaction in excess of 25 million in aggregate value must be submitted to the Audit Committee and, if approved by the Audit Committee, must also be submitted to the full Board for approval.
The Audit Committee does not include an Audit Committee Financial Expert.
The Audit Committee members have considerable financial and business experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its functions.
Accordingly, it is the opinion of the Board not to formally designate a member as the financial expert.
Internal control The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been established, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control issued in September 1999 and updated by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This process has been in place for the year ended 30 June 2006 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the year and this review has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2006 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Audit Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups internal audit team and the external auditors.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by the Board.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of this process.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
Monthly reports on performance are provided to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
Each area of the Group carries out risk assessments of its operations and ensures that the key risks are addressed.
A Risk Management Committee, chaired by the CFO and comprising Senior Executives, reviews the management of risks in all areas of the Group.
The results of the Risk Management Committees review are integrated into the budgeting and forecasting process and are integrated into the internal audit planning.
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups operating management and to the Audit Committee.
Use of external auditors The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: those services which the auditors are prohibited from providing: those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and those services for which the specific approval of the Audit Committee is required before the auditors are permitted to provide the service.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Audit Committee is aware that the non-audit fees incurred with Deloitte & Touche LLP have been considerably in excess of the audit fees.
The principal reason for this is that the Group during the year received services from Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of the CRM systems development project.
The Audit Committee reviews regularly the non-audit work provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP, and has noted that, in relation to CRM, it 62
