Corporate Governance The Combined Code - Principles of Good Governance Following the publication of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in July 2003 which applies for reporting years beginning on or after 1st November 2003 this statement is the Boards second report which is fully compliant with the new Combined Code.
The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and acknowledges the importance of good governance as being in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders and employees.
Statement of Compliance The Company considers that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31st March 2006 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Application of the Code The Board has conducted a review of the Groups Corporate Governance practice and the following statement describes how the principles of good governance in section 1 of the Combined Code have been applied.
The Board The Company is controlled through the Board which currently consists of two Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on page 15.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management within the meaning of the Combined Code and are free from any business or other relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
They bring to the Board a wide range of experience of senior management in other areas of commerce and industry and represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three year term of office.
Continuation of appointment is contingent on satisfactory performance and re-election at forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
The Executive Directors have one year service contracts.
Details of all payments to Directors are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 28.
One third of the Directors are required to stand for re-election each year on a rotational basis.
New Directors are subject to election at the first opportunity following appointment and all names submitted to shareholders for election are accompanied by biographies.
All Executive Directors retire by the age of sixty.
18 Corporate Governance Board Procedures All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined to ensure that they take proper account of the best long term interests of the shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the community.
To enable them to do this, all the Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and can take independent professional advice at the Groups expense at any time should it be necessary.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as a consequence of the Board appraisal process.
The Board meets ten times a year.
Individual attendance at Board meetings and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below for the year ended 31st March 2006.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee P T Warry 10 3 4 3 P S Wood retired 31st December 2005 6 N A N A 0 K M Higginson 9 N A N A N A G Slark 9 N A N A 1 K Lowe retired 21st July 2005 4 N A N A N A B J Gray retired 21st July 2005 4 N A N A N A R J Harrison 10 3 4 3 T Osbaldiston 10 3 4 3 T R F Stockley 10 2 4 3 Non-Executive Directors Number of meetings in the year 10 3 4 3 Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee In addition, there is frequent contact between meetings and Directors visit trading locations in order to progress the Groups business.
The Board receives full and comprehensive financial and operating reports from the Executive Management Team each month.
Board meeting papers and business reports are circulated before each Board meeting.
There is an agreed Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board for collective decision making.
These matters include setting long term Group objectives and the strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, financial commitments, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility for the development and preparation of the business plan for the Group and annual Group budget for recommendation to the Board.
As the Senior Executive Director, the Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of day to day operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose other members are the Divisional Managing Directors, the Group Finance Director, Company Secretary and by invitation Function Heads to assist him in the performance of his duties which meets once a month.
There is a clear division between the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Terms of Reference for the Board and each of its Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary, for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and are also available on the Companys website www.
19 Corporate Governance Board Effectiveness The Boards approach is to carry out an appraisal of the Boards effectiveness by the Chairman.
Individual discussions are held with each Director and the results summarised and presented to the Board.
As a result, suggestions for improvement are acted upon during the course of the year.
Each sub-committee appraises its own performance and the results are reported and discussed by the Board.
Formal appraisals of the individual performance of the Non-Executive Directors were conducted by the Chairman by holding a meeting with each Director.
All Executive Directors are appraised annually by the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The Executive and the Non-Executive Directors assess the performance of the Chairman through a series of individual meetings with the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director then discusses the results of that assessment with the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors only.
The Chairman was Mr T R F Stockley until 26th January 2006.
The current Chairman is Mr R J Harrison.
The Remuneration Committee decides on all aspects of the remuneration of the Executive Directors, including basic salaries, performance related elements, share options and other benefits.
The Remuneration Committee has access to external research on market data and trends provided by an independent experienced consultant.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, who have no other connection with the Company, continued to be the Companys advisers during the year.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is shown on pages 23 to 28.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive and is chaired by Mr P T Warry.
Appointments to Executive Director are fully discussed by the Chairman and Chief Executive with the Remuneration and Nomination Committees before a proposal is formally made to the Board by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Possible new Non-Executive Directors are chosen from a shortlist supplied by external consultants in light of the requirements of the Groups business and the need to have a balanced Board.
Recruitment consultants are used to assist the process.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and the Chief Executive, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually to discuss succession planning at both Board level and the Management level immediately below.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors only and has been chaired by Mr T Osbaldiston since his appointment on 1st January 2004.
The Board considers that the membership of the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its functions.
Executive Directors, external auditors and the internal auditors also attend by invitation as required.
The external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and meet with him without management present.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and has overall responsibility for monitoring the Groups systems of internal financial control, the external and internal reporting processes and the financial control environment of the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
 LLP are engaged as the external auditors to the Company.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are set out in note 2 to the accounts on page 40.
Non-audit fees principally relate to due diligence and taxation advice.
All services performed by  LLP are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard Five, relating to non-audit services performed by a companys auditors.
20 Corporate Governance Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The Combined Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control which includes financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The system of internal control is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing this system, the Directors considered the nature of the Groups business, including the materiality of the risks being run, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control and mitigation of likely losses.
It therefore follows that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place from the beginning of the financial year to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors and the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull working party.
The processes by which the Board review the effectiveness of the internal control system include the following: An established framework of internal financial control which includes a clearly defined management structure and comprehensive systems of budgeting and financial reporting which are reviewed by successive levels of management: Guidelines for capital expenditure which include budgets, appraisal and review procedures and successive authorisation levels: Internal financial controls and procedures for branches are included in branch operating manuals: All trading locations are reviewed regularly by the internal audit department and the Audit Committee receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis: The Executive Management Team receives a monthly summary of financial results and the Groups published bi-annual financial information is based on a standardised reporting process.
The Directors have also reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control during the period in conjunction with the work of the internal audit department in relation to the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information used within the business and for publication.
Investor Relations Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority.
Formal communications accounting for the Companys performance and strategy are principally through the Annual Report and Accounts and announcements made through the stock exchange and at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, corporate information is made available to investors on the Companys website www.
Presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results and regular meetings are held between these investors and the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Chairman attends some of the meetings with investors and is available to meet with institutional investors upon request.
All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions and hear their views during the meeting.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
All votes, whether by proxy or in person, are counted.
Mr T R F Stockley has held the post of Senior Independent Director since 1st January 2004 and is the Director whom shareholders may contact if they feel their concerns are not being addressed by the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Going Concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the accounts.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Companys and the Groups budgets for the current year and outline plans for future periods including capital expenditure plans and cash flow forecasts.
