Corporate Governance Compliance to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the The Company is committed to high standards of Board for ensuring that Board procedures are corporate governance.
This statement, together followed and that applicable rules and regulations with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities are complied with.
on page 26, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Board Composition updated Combined Code published in June 2006 The Board consists of five non-executive directors, the Combined Code and the AICs Code of all of whom are regarded by the Board as Corporate Governance, also published in 2003 the independent of the Companys Manager, including AIC Code, which complements the Combined the Chairman.
Code and provides a framework of best practice for A review of Board composition and balance is investment trusts.
included as part of the annual performance The Board is responsible for ensuring the evaluation of the Board, details of which may be appropriate level of Corporate Governance and found below.
considers that the Company has complied with the The Board has considered whether a senior best practice provisions of the Combined Code, independent director should be appointed.
As the insofar as they are relevant to the Companys Board comprises entirely of non-executive business, and the AIC Code throughout the year directors, the appointment of a senior independent under review.
director is not considered necessary.
However, the Role of the Board Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the A management agreement between the Company evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the is available to shareholders if they have concerns Manager has authority.
This includes management that cannot be resolved through discussion with of the Companys assets and the provision of the Chairman.
accounting, company secretarial, administration, Tenure and some marketing services.
All other matters are Directors are initially appointed until the following reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal Annual General Meeting when, under the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Companys Articles of Association, it is required decision has been approved during the year.
This that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, includes determination and monitoring of the Directors are required to submit themselves for reCompanys investment objectives and policy and election at least every three years.
The Chairman its future strategic direction, gearing policy, will meet with each Director before the Director is management of the capital structure, appointment proposed for re-election, and subject to the and removal of third party service providers, evaluation of performance carried out each year, review of key investment and financial data and the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the Companys corporate governance and risk the director to seek an additional term.
does not believe that length of service in itself will The Board meets at least quarterly during the year necessarily disqualify a director from seeking reand additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
election but, when making a recommendation, the Full and timely information is provided to the Board Board will take into account the on-going to enable it to function effectively and to allow requirements of the Combined Code, including the Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Any directors with more than nine years service independent professional advice in the furtherance will be required to submit themselves annually for of their duties and at the Companys expense.
In this regard, the Board recommends is in addition to the access that every Director has JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 21 Corporate Governance continued the re-election of Jeremy Paulson-Ellis who, having Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairmans served in excess of nine years, retires at this years performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates its AGM.
Jeremy Paulson-Ellis has a wealth of own performance and that of its committees.
experience in the financial sector and makes an Board Committees invaluable contribution to the workings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Board and, as Chairman, has demonstrated The Board has established a Nomination effective leadership of the Company.
Committee, which consists of the entire Board, and Meetings and Committees which meets at least annually to ensure that the The Board delegates certain responsibilities and Board has a balance of skills and experience to functions to committees.
Details of membership of carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and committees are shown with Directors profiles on propose suitable candidates for appointment when page 14.
Directors who are not members of necessary.
A variety of sources, including external Committees may attend at the invitation of the search consultants, may be used to ensure that a Chairman.
wide range of candidates is considered.
The table below lists the number of Board and The Committee undertakes an annual performance Committee meetings attended by each Director.
evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board During the year there were 5 Board meetings, in have devoted sufficient time and contributed addition to a meeting devoted to strategy, 2 Audit adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee meetings and a meeting of the Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes Nomination Committee.
In addition there is regular recommendations to the Board as and when contact between the Directors and the Manager required.
and Company Secretary throughout the year.
Audit Committee Audit Nomination The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings and its membership is set out on page 14.
The Director Attended Attended Attended 1 Committee reviews the actions and judgements of Alan Barber 31 1 Andrew Fleming 5 2 1 management in relation to the interim and annual 2 Blaise Hardman 31 1 financial statements and the Companys compliance Jeremy Paulson-Ellis 5 2 1 with the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the David Pearson 5 2 1 Keith Percy 5 2 1 management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control 1 Appointed 9th February 2006. systems, receives information from the Managers 2 Retired 15th March 2006. compliance department and also reviews the scope Training and Appraisal and results of the external audit, its cost On appointment the Manager and Company effectiveness and the independence and objectivity Secretary provide all Directors with induction of the external auditors.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided on the Companys system of internal control is set on changes in regulatory requirements that could out below.
affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are The terms of reference for the Nomination and encouraged to attend industry and other seminars Audit Committees are available for inspection on covering issues and developments relevant to request at the Companys registered offices on the investment trusts.
Companys website and at the AGM.
The Board has agreed a procedure for the formal Relations with Shareholders evaluation of its own performance and of that of its The Board regularly monitors the shareholder committees and individual directors.
The profile of the Company.
It aims to provide evaluation of individual directors is led by the shareholders with a full understanding of the Chairman, and the Chairman of the Audit 22 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Companys activities and performance and reports only be designed to manage rather than eliminate formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not Report.
This is supplemented by the daily absolute, assurance against fraud, material publication, through the London Stock Exchange, misstatement or loss.
of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Since investment management, custody of assets All shareholders have the opportunity, and are and all administrative services are provided to the encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual Company by JPMAM and its associates, the General Meeting at which the Directors and Companys system of internal control mainly representatives of the Manager are available in comprises monitoring the services provided by person to meet with and answer shareholders JPMAM and its associates, including the operating questions.
In addition, a presentation is given by controls established by them, to ensure they meet the investment managers who review the the Companys business objectives.
During the year the does not have an internal audit function of its own, Companys brokers, the investment managers and but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger JPMAM.
The key elements designed to provide shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware effective internal control are as follows: of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive themselves available as and when required to review by the Board of key investment and address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be financial data, including management accounts, contacted through the Company Secretary whose revenue projections, analysis of transactions and details are shown on page 45. performance comparisons.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts are Management Agreement Appointment of a published in time to give shareholders at least 20 manager and custodian regulated by the Financial working days notice of the Annual General Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions are clearly defined in a written agreement.
in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write Management Systems The Managers system of to the Company Secretary at the address shown on internal control includes organisational page 45.
Details of the proxy voting position on agreements which clearly define the lines of each resolution will be published on the Company responsibility, delegated authority, control web site shortly after the AGM.
These are monitored by Internal Control JPMAMs compliance department which regularly The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least monitors compliance with FSA rules.
annually, to review the effectiveness of the Investment Strategy Authorisation and Companys system of internal control and to report monitoring of the Companys investment strategy to shareholders that they have done so.
This and exposure limits by the Board.
encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has identified as including business, financial, The Board, either directly or through the Audit operational, compliance and risk management.
Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by The Directors are responsible for the Companys monitoring the operation of the key operating system of internal control which is designed to controls of the Manager and its associates as safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper follows: accounting records and ensure that financial information used within the business, or the Board, through the Audit Committee, published, is reliable.
However, such a system can reviews the terms of the management JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 23 Corporate Governance continued agreement and receives regular reports from stance on a variety of key corporate governance JPMAMs compliance department: issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control the Board reviews the report on the internal structures, remuneration, as well as social and controls and the operations of its custodian, environmental issues see below.
These JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting independently reviewed: and decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM the Directors review every six months an makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case independent report on the internal controls basis, taking into account the individual and the operations of JPMAM.
By the means of the procedures set out above, Corporate Social Responsibility which accord with the Turnbull guidance on The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy internal controls, the Board confirms that it has statement on corporate social responsibility which reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys has been noted by the Board: system of internal control for the year ended We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best 30th September 2006, and to the date of approval financial interests of our clients and to achieve of this Annual Report and Accounts.
good financial returns consistent with an Corporate Governance and Voting Policy acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that non The Company delegates responsibility for voting to financial issues, such as social and environmental JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs issues, can have an economic impact and that any policy statement on corporate governance and company run in the long-term interests of its voting policy which has been noted by the Board.
shareholders will need to manage effectively The full policy is available from JPMAM on request, relationships with its employees, suppliers and or can be downloaded from www.
com: customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the environment and society as a whole.
Our JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment managers take these factors into investment performance to its clients worldwide.
account as part of any investment decision.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our 24 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese
