Corporate Governance Compliance the access that every Director has to the advice The Company is committed to high standards of and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, corporate governance.
This statement, together which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Board procedures are followed and that applicable on page 30, indicates how the Company has rules and regulations are complied with.
applied the principles of good governance of the Board Composition 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, the Combined Code and the AITCs Code of all of whom are regarded by the Board as Corporate Governance, the AITC Code, which independent of the Companys Manager, including complements the Combined Code and provides a the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of framework of best practice for investment trusts.
investment knowledge, business and financial The Board is responsible for ensuring the skills and experience relevant to the Companys appropriate level of corporate governance and business and brief biographical details of each considers that the Company has complied with the Director are set out on page 18. best practice provisions of the Combined Code, A review of Board composition and balance is insofar as they are relevant to the Companys included as part of the annual performance business, and the AITC Code throughout the year evaluation of the Board, details of which may be under review.
The Board has considered whether a Role of the Board senior independent director should be appointed A management agreement between the Company and has concluded that, as the Board comprises and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the entirely of non-executive directors, this is Manager has authority.
This includes management unnecessary at present.
However, the Chairman of the Companys assets and the provision of of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of accounting, company secretarial, administrative, the performance of the Chairman and is available and some marketing services.
All other matters are to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal be resolved through discussion with the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Chairman.
This includes Tenure determination and monitoring of the Companys Directors are initially appointed until the following investment objectives and policy and its future Annual General Meeting when, under the strategic direction, gearing policy, management of Companys Articles of Association, it is required the capital structure, appointment and removal of that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a third party service providers, review of key Directors appointment will run for a term of three investment and financial data and the Companys years.
Subject to the performance evaluation corporate governance and risk control carried out each year, the Board will agree whether arrangements.
it is appropriate for the Director to seek an The Board meets at least quarterly during the year additional term.
The Board does not believe that and additional meetings are arranged as length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a necessary.
Full and timely information is provided Director from seeking re-election but, when making to the Board to enable it to function effectively and a recommendation, the Board will take into to allow Directors to discharge their account the ongoing requirements of the responsibilities.
Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Articles There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take of Association require that Directors stand for independent professional advice if necessary and re-election at least every three years.
Any Director at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 25 Corporate Governance continued who has served for a period of more than nine covering issues and developments relevant to years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
The terms and conditions of Directors The Board has agreed procedures for the formal appointments are set out in formal letters of evaluation of the Manager, its own performance appointment, copies of which are available for and of that of its committees and individual inspection on request at the Companys registered Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, office and at the AGM.
are completed by each Director.
The responses are collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
As a result of the Boards evaluation process The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the described below, it confirms that Alexander Chairman, and the Chairman of the Audit Zagoreos and Robin Faber, who retire by rotation at Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairmans this years AGM, continue to be effective Directors performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the and demonstrate commitment to their roles, and Manager, its own performance and that of its the Board recommends their re-election.
Meetings and Committees Board Committees The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to committees.
Details of membership of Nomination Committee committees are shown with the Directors profiles The Nomination Committee, chaired by Andrew on page 18.
Directors who are not members of Murison, consists of all of the Directors and meets Committees may attend at the invitation of the at least annually to ensure that the Board has an Chairman.
appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose The table below details the number of Board and suitable candidates for appointment when Committee meetings attended by each Director.
A variety of sources, including the use of During the year there were five full Board external search consultants, may be used to ensure meetings, including a private meeting of the that a wide range of candidates is considered.
Directors to evaluate the Manager, and a separate meeting devoted to strategy.
There were also a The Committee undertakes an annual performance number of ad hoc Board meetings, two Audit evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board Committee meetings and two meetings of the have devoted sufficient time and contributed Nomination Committee during the year.
adequately to the work of the Board.
The Audit Nomination Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes Board Committee Committee recommendations to the Board as and when meetings meetings meetings required.
Director attended attended attended Andrew Murison 5 2 2 Audit Committee Robin Faber 5 2 2 The Audit Committee, chaired by Robin Faber and Stephen Russell 5 2 1 whose membership is set out on page 18, meets at Ferdinand Verdonck 5 2 2 least twice each year.
The members of the Audit Alexander E Zagoreos 4 1 Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of Training and Appraisal the Committee.
On appointment, the Manager and Company The Committee reviews the actions and Secretary provide all Directors with induction judgements of the Manager in relation to the training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided interim and annual financial statements and the on changes in regulatory requirements that affect Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It the Company and Directors.
Directors are reviews the terms of the management agreement encouraged to attend industry and other seminars 26 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European and examines the effectiveness of the Companys The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is internal control systems, receives information from published in time to give shareholders at least 20 the Managers Compliance department and working days notice of the Annual General reviews the scope and results of the external audit, Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions its cost effectiveness and the independence and in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write objectivity of the external auditors: in the to the Company Secretary at the address shown on Directors opinion, the auditors are independent.
Representatives of the Companys auditors attend Internal Control the Committee meeting at which the draft annual The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least report and accounts is considered.
The Directors annually, to review the effectiveness of the statement on the Companys system of internal Companys system of internal control and to report control is set out below.
to shareholders that they have done so.
This Terms of Reference encompasses a review of all controls, which the Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Board has identified as including business, financial, Committee have written terms of reference which operational, compliance and risk management.
define clearly their respective responsibilities, The Directors are responsible for the Companys copies of which are available for inspection on system of internal control which is designed to request at the Companys registered office and at safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper the Companys Annual General Meeting.
accounting records and ensure that financial Relations with Shareholders information used within the business, or The Board regularly monitors the shareholder published, is reliable.
However, such a system can profile of the Company.
It aims to provide only be designed to manage rather than eliminate shareholders with a full understanding of the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Companys activities and performance and reports and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the absolute, assurance against fraud, material misAnnual Report and Accounts and the Interim statement or loss.
This is supplemented by the daily Since investment management, custody of assets publication, through the London Stock Exchange, and all administrative services are provided to the of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Company by JPMAM and its associates, the All shareholders have the opportunity, and are Companys system of internal control mainly encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual comprises monitoring the services provided by General Meeting at which the Directors and JPMAM and its associates, including the operating representatives of the Managers are available in controls established by them, to ensure they meet person to meet with shareholders and answer their the Companys business objectives.
In addition, a presentation is given by does not have an internal audit function of its own, the Investment Managers who review the but relies on the internal audit department of Companys performance.
During the year the JPMAM.
The key elements designed to provide Companys brokers, the Investment Managers and effective internal control are as follows: JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware review by the Board of key investment and of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make financial data, including management accounts, themselves available as and when required to revenue projections, analysis of transactions and address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be performance comparisons.
contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 51.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 27 Corporate Governance continued Management Agreement Appointment of a performance is an assessment of the corporate manager and custodian regulated by the Financial governance principles and practices of the Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities companies in which we invest our clients assets are clearly defined in a written agreement.
and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management Management Systems The Managers system of of their business.
internal control includes organisational agreements which clearly define the lines of Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate responsibility, delegated authority, control governance process, and we view seriously our procedures and systems.
These are monitored by obligation to manage the voting rights of the JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly shares entrusted to us as we would manage any monitors compliance with FSA rules.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on Investment Strategy Authorisation and our reasonable judgement of what will best serve monitoring of the Companys investment strategy the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is and exposure limits by the Board.
practicable we will vote at all of the meetings The Board, either directly or through the Audit called by companies in which we are invested.
Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness In order to do this we have formulated detailed of the Companys system of internal control by guidelines for each region, which set out our monitoring the operation of the key operating stance on a variety of key corporate governance controls of the Managers and its associates as issues, including disclosure and transparency, follows: board composition and independence, control reviews the terms of the management structures, remuneration, as well as social and agreement and receives regular reports from environmental issues see below.
These JPMAMs Compliance department: guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting reviews the report on the internal controls and decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case Bank, which is itself independently reviewed: basis, taking into account the individual and circumstances of each vote.
reviews every six months an independent report Corporate Social Responsibility on the internal controls and the operations of The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy JPMAM.
statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the Board: By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best of the Companys system of internal control for the financial interests of our clients and to achieve year ended 31st March 2006, and to the date of good financial returns consistent with an approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
We recognise that nonfinancial issues, such as social and environmental Corporate Governance and Voting Policy issues, can have an economic impact and that any The Company delegates responsibility for voting to company run in the long-term interests of its JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs shareholders will need to manage effectively policy statement on corporate governance and relationships with its employees, suppliers and voting policy which has been noted by the Board.
customers, to behave ethically and to have regard The full policy is available from JPMAM on request, to the environment and society as a whole.
Our or can be downloaded from www.
com: investment managers take these factors into JPMAM is committed to delivering superior account as part of any investment decision.
investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment 28 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European
