Full and timely information is provided The Company is committed to high standards of to the Board to enable it to function effectively and corporate governance.
This statement, together to allow Directors to discharge their with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities responsibilities.
on page 30, indicates how the Company has There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take applied the principles of good governance of the independent professional advice if necessary and Combined Code published in 2003 the Combined at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate the access that every Director has to the advice Governance, also published in 2003 the AITC and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, Code, which complements the Combined Code which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that and provides a framework of best practice for applicable rules and regulations are complied with investment trusts.
and that Board procedures are followed.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the Board Composition appropriate level of Corporate Governance and The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, considers that the Company has complied with the all of whom are regarded by the Board as best practice provisions of the Combined Code, independent of the Companys Manager, including other than in respect of the provision relating to the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of the appointment of a senior independent director, investment, business and financial skills and and the AITC Code throughout the year under experience relevant to the Companys business and review.
brief biographical details of each Director are set Role of the Board out on page 19.
A management agreement between the Company A review of Board composition and balance is and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the included as part of the annual performance Manager has authority.
This includes management evaluation of the Board, details of which are given of the Companys assets and the provision of below.
The Board has considered whether a senior accounting, company secretarial, administration, independent director should be appointed and has and some marketing services.
All other matters are concluded that, as the Board consists entirely of reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Tenure decision has been approved.
This includes Directors are initially appointed until the following determination and monitoring of the Companys Annual General Meeting when, under the investment objectives and policy and its future Companys Articles of Association, it is required strategic direction, gearing policy, management of that they be re-elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, the capital structure, appointment and removal of a Directors appointment will run for a term of third party service providers, review of key three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation investment and financial data and the Companys carried out each year, the Board will agree whether corporate governance and risk control it is appropriate for the Director to seek an arrangements.
Any Director who has served for a The Board meets at least quarterly during the year period of more than ten years will submit himself and additional meetings are arranged as for annual re-election thereafter.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 24 Corporate Governance continued The terms and conditions of Directors Training and Appraisal appointments are set out in formal letters of On appointment, the Manager and Company appointment, copies of which are available for Secretary provide all Directors with induction inspection on request at the Companys registered training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided office and at the AGM.
on changes in regulatory requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are The Board recommends the re-election of Charles encouraged to attend industry and other seminars Peel, who was appointed a Director on 1st October covering issues and developments relevant to 2005.
As a result of the Boards evaluation process investment trusts.
set out below, it confirms that Nicholas Berry and The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the Simon Keswick, who, having served on the Board Manager, its own performance and that of its for more than ten years and must now stand for committees and individual Directors.
Annually, annual re-election, continue to be effective questionnaires are completed by each Director and Directors and show commitment to their roles.
The the responses collated and discussed.
The Board recommends their re-election.
Both Directors evaluation of individual Directors is led by the have indicated their intention to stand down from Chairman and another Director leads the the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Meetings and Committees Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own The Board delegates certain responsibilities and performance and that of its committees.
Details of membership of Board Committees committees are shown with Directors profiles on Nomination Committee page 19.
Directors who are not members of The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Committees may attend at the invitation of the Leslie Melville, consists of all of the Directors and Chairman.
meets at least annually to ensure that the Board The table below details the number of Board, Audit has an appropriate balance of skills to carry out its Committee and Nomination Committee meetings fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable attended by each Director.
During the year there candidates when necessary for appointment.
A were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee variety of sources are considered to ensure that a meetings and two Nomination Committee Meetings.
wide range of candidates is considered.
External Director Board Audit Nomination search consultants were not used in connection Meetings Committee Committee with the appointment of Charles Peel.
Attended Meetings Meetings Attended Attended The Committee undertakes an annual performance NW Berry 4 2 2 evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all SL Keswick 4 1 2 members of the Board have devoted sufficient time IH Leslie Melville 5 2 2 and contributed adequately to the work of the 1 LE Linaker 1 1 1 Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees Dr SG Nairn 4 2 1 and makes recommendations to the Board as and 2 CEW Peel 1 1 when appropriate.
Lord Rothermere 4 1 1 1 Retired from the Board on 19th May 2005.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 25 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie All shareholders have the opportunity, and are Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual least twice each year.
The members of the General Meeting at which the Directors and Committee consider that they have the requisite representatives of the Manager are available in skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of person to meet with shareholders and answer the Committee.
In addition, a presentation is given by The Committee reviews the actions and the Investment Managers who review the judgements of management in relation to the Companys performance.
During the year the interim and annual accounts and the Companys Companys brokers, the Investment Managers and compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger terms of the management agreement and shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware examines the effectiveness of the Companys of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make internal control systems, receives information from themselves available as and when required to the Managers Compliance department and reviews address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be the scope and results of the external audit, its cost contacted through the Company Secretary whose effectiveness and the independence and details are shown on page 52. objectivity of the external auditors: in the The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is Directors opinion the auditors are considered published in time to give shareholders at least 20 independent.
Representatives of the Companys working days notice of the Annual General auditors attend the Committee meeting at which Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions the draft annual report and accounts are in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write considered.
The Directors statement on the to the Company Secretary at the address shown on Companys system of internal control is set out on page 52. pages 26 and 27.
Internal Control Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least Committee have written terms of reference which annually, to review the effectiveness of the define clearly their respective responsibilities, Companys system of internal control and to report copies of which are available for inspection on to shareholders that they have done so.
This request at the Companys registered office and at encompasses a review of all controls, which the the AGM.
Board has identified as including business, Relations with Shareholders financial, operational, compliance and risk The Board regularly monitors the shareholder management.
It aims to provide The Directors are responsible for the Companys shareholders with a full understanding of the system of internal control which is designed to Companys activities and performance and reports safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the accounting records and ensure that financial Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim information used within the business, or Report.
This is supplemented by the daily published, is reliable.
However, such a system can publication, through the London Stock Exchange, only be designed to manage rather than eliminate JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 26 Corporate Governance continued the risk of failure to achieve business objectives controls of the Manager and its associates as and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not follows: absolute, assurance against fraud, material misthe Board, through the Audit Committee, statement or loss.
reviews the terms of the management Since investment management, custody of assets agreement and receives regular reports from and all administrative services are provided to the JPMAMs Compliance department: Company by JPMAM and its associates, the the Board reviews the report on the internal Companys system of internal control mainly controls and the operations of its custodian, consists of monitoring the services provided by JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself JPMAM and its associates, including the operating independently reviewed: and controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Directors review every six months an the Companys business objectives.
The Company independent report on the internal controls and does not have an internal audit function of its own, the operations of JPMAM.
but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
The key elements designed to provide By the means of the procedures set out above, the effective internal control are as follows: Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive control for the year ended 31st January 2006, and review by the Board of key investment and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and financial data, including management accounts, Accounts.
revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance comparisons.
Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
Management Systems The Managers system of internal control includes organisational agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 27
