CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Remuneration Committee This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
While neither Council the Code have been applied by the Company during the year the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, nor the Chief Executive, ended 31 December 2006.
The Company confirms it has complied Mr M J Roney, are members of the Committee, they normally attend throughout 2006 with the provisions of the Code.
meetings except when the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the The Board Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52.
The terms executives and four non-executive directors who have wide experience of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
and are considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
One of these, Mr J F Harris, has been Nomination Committee designated as the senior independent director.
None of the Companys The Nomination Committee comprises Mr A J Habgood, who chairs the non-executive directors had any previous connection with the Company Committee, and two independent non-executive directors, Mr J F Harris or its executive directors on appointment to the Board.
Brief biographical and Mr C A Banks.
The Committee meets as necessary to enable it to details of the directors are given on page 17 of the Annual Review make recommendations to the Board on new appointments of executive and Summary Financial Statement.
Information relating to the conduct and non-executive directors.
An external search consultancy is retained of Board meetings and the procedures implemented to ensure that by the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as the Board retains overall control and accountability for all strategic, prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, executive financial, operational and compliance issues are set out in the internal directors.
Candidates are then interviewed by members of the Committee control section below and in the Financial Review on pages 18 and 19 before an appropriate recommendation is made to the Board.
On joining of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
The Board the Board, new directors are given an induction into the business of the has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which comply Company and training as necessary.
The terms of reference of the with the provisions of the Code.
Committee are set out on the Companys website.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for Meetings attendance the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by the The following table shows the attendance in 2006 of directors at Chairman, Mr A J Habgood.
This includes completion of self-assessment Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which forms by, and individual discussions with, each director.
This process they are members: was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The Chairman periodically Audit Remuneration Nomination holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive Board Committee Committee Committee directors present.
Led by Mr J F Harris, the senior independent director, Number of meetings 8 3 3 1 the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
A J Habgood 8 1 M J Roney 8 Detailed information concerning the directors remuneration is given J F Harris 7 3 3 1 in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52.
C A Banks 7 3 3 1 U Wolters 8 3 3 Audit Committee P L Larmon 8 The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive B M May 8 directors and is chaired by Mr J F Harris who is considered by the P W Johnson 723 Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
While neither D M Williams 1 the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, nor the Finance Director, Mr D M Williams retired as a director on 31 January 2006 and attended Mr B M May, are members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
It receives and considers reports the only Board meeting held between 1 January 2006 and that date.
from the external auditors and the internal audit function, monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating Relations with shareholders The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with to the Companys financial performance and also reviews the Companys internal controls and arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, the interim results announced normally at the end of August and the preliminary results announced normally at the end of February.
The Chief raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
During the year the Committee reviewed the effectiveness Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board the views of major of both the external auditors and the internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires by both the Board and senior shareholders.
Additional forms of communication include presentations of the interim and preliminary results.
The Chairman and the senior management within the Company.
The Committee also has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment independent director and the other non-executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request and the Chairman will at such of the external auditors and for approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditors.
The Committee reviews and approves the level meetings engage in discussions relating to matters of governance and strategy as appropriate.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to and type of non-audit work which the external auditors perform, including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring that the objectivity and shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited independence of the external auditors is not compromised.
Such non-audit work principally comprises further assurance services relating to due to ask questions at the Meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors informally.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses and tax services.
The Committee believes that their vote on the proxy form and the level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of given the external auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance of carrying out abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following a vote by a show of hands.
The details of the proxies lodged are also publicly detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for this additional work to be carried out by the Companys auditors announced and placed on the Companys website.
The Board also periodically reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports and rather than another firm of accountants.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
surveys of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys own brokers.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance 03 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Internal control both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the fraud risk assessment: Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance the Company has the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing a weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks to the Group.
The Board confirms that such procedures have been in place the internal audit department periodically reviews individual for the year ended 31 December 2006 and up to the date of approval businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve of these financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
controls and follows up to ensure that management implement the recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to reported to Group and business area management as well as to it for decision.
These include the approval of the annual and interim the Audit Committee: results of the Company, the Companys strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital expenditure and acquisition divestment proposals, material every six months the Audit Committee, which is chaired by increases to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms Mr J F Harris, the senior independent non-executive director, of reference for the Board Committees.
This ensures that the directors reviews the findings of the external and internal auditors and maintain overall control over all significant strategic, financial, operational approves the future work plans of the internal audit function: and compliance issues.
The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate to regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess the business environments in which the Group operates.
The principal the risks throughout the Group: features of this system include: the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee sets relevant a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control policies and practices and monitors their implementation: system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives established by each business area are periodically clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment carried out: and and acquisitions: developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics and system of internal control in operation during 2006. whistleblowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing: The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the a well-established consolidation and reporting system for the statutory financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the accounts and monthly management accounts: system of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of timely opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
and accurate management information relating to the operation of the Groups businesses: and a detailed procedures manual covering treasury operations.
Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control system are listed below: central management holds regular meetings with business area management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the business areas and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed: an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on internal control issues: the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee discussions on internal control issues which ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: 04 Corporate Governance Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006
