CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board supports the principles of corporate governance advocated by the Combined Code the Code published in July 2003 and, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, sets out below its report on the application of the principles contained in the Code for the year under review.
Unless otherwise stated below, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
The Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management of the Group and has adopted a committee structure which enables it to concentrate its efforts on strategy, management performance, governance and internal control.
The Board currently consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus two other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board and Committee structure of the Company was established at the time of the IPO in July 2002.
From that time until the demerger in December 2005, the Company remained majority owned by GUS plc, of which, John Peace and David Tyler are Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively.
They were appointed by GUS to their respective board positions as Chairman and NonExecutive Director and on the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee under the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into with GUS plc at the time of the IPO.
Notwithstanding the possible lack of independence of these two individuals on the Board and on the committees of which they were members, it was considered that the Company benefited from their knowledge and experience.
Given the Group has operated independently since the IPO in 2002 and the completion of the demerger process in 2005, the Board now considers that John Peace and David Tyler are independent since the former shareholder relationship did not materially affect the directors judgement at the time and does not affect the directors judgement now.
If there are specific matters relating to the Companys previous relationship with GUS that may cause a conflict of interest to arise in accordance with the companys Articles of Association, the relevant director will not participate in the determination of the matter concerned.
In addition, during the course of the year Angela Ahrendts was appointed as an executive director of the Company on the basis that she would become Chief Executive of the Company on 1 July 2006.
Given the knowledge of the Groups affairs and her expertise and experience, it was considered by the Board that the retention of the services of Rose Marie Bravo was desirable albeit with a different emphasis.
Accordingly, Rose Marie Bravo will be appointed as Vice Chairman of the Company with effect from 1 July 2006.
Following the demerger and given the changes to the Board including the appointment in March 2006 of an additional non-executive director, the Chairman, in consultation with the Senior Independent Director, is reviewing the composition of the Board and the committees of the Board and their terms of reference to assess whether any changes needed to be made to reflect the fully independent status of the Company.
The Board has a clear understanding of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Although not documented, the Chairman leads the Board in reviewing the Groups strategy and monitoring high-level progress.
The day-to-day business of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
John Peace, Philip Bowman, Guy Peyrelongue, David Tyler and Stephanie George are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management and free from any business relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
During the year under review the Board held five scheduled meetings, which, in the opinion of the directors, was a sufficient number to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All directors attended every meeting with the exception of Brian Blake and Caroline Marland who were each unable to attend one meeting.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
In addition, directors are also supplied with an extensive monthly report, which provides information on operational and financial performance, risk management and the Groups business plans.
There is also a procedure whereby directors, in the furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In order to ensure that the Company and the Board are able to draw from an appropriate balance of skills and experience, the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee further details of which are provided below, include the responsibility for reviewing succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will arrange meetings consisting of only the Companys non-executive directors to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
While no formal meetings were held during the year under review, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Notwithstanding the changes of director during the year, a majority of the Board comprised non-executive directors for the duration of the year under review.
Given changes to the composition of the Board, during the year, there were times when at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman did not comprise independent non-executive directors as required under the Code.
26 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors Development On appointment, directors are furnished with relevant information to discharge their duties effectively.
The Company plans an induction programme for each director, whereby a director will meet key members of the management team following his her appointment.
As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
In particular, the directors knowledge of the Groups worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging presentations from local management.
Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee has discussed the methods available to it in order to evaluate the performance of the Board including the assistance of specialist third-party consultants.
For the year under review, the Board considered that such a formal evaluation would not be undertaken but would be kept under review for future years.
The evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, the Chairman and of the individual directors is carried out on an informal basis.
This method of evaluation is carried out by the Chairman in respect of the Board as a whole in consultation with the Senior Independent Director.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The biographical details of those directors seeking election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM can be found on page 22 of this Annual Report.
Committees The Board is supported by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage third-party consultants and advisers and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them in developing their respective roles.
In addition to the relevant Committee members and the Company Secretary, external advisers and, on occasion, other directors attend committee meetings but only at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference and the schedule of matters reserved for the Board are being reviewed following the demerger and, following that review, will be made available on request and on the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently consists of three non-executive directors: Philip Bowman Chairman, David Tyler and Stephanie George.
Caroline Marland was a member of the Committee until her resignation from the Board on 31 January 2006 and Stephanie George was appointed a member of the Committee on 19 May 2006.
The Committee met four times during the year, with both the external auditors and a representative of the Groups internal audit department present.
All members of the Committee attended every meeting.
The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience given the nature of the senior management positions held by Philip Bowman and David Tyler see biographical details on page 22 of this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee has reviewed during the year the adequacy of whistle-blowing arrangements adopted by the Group.
The Board acknowledges that the independence of auditors is a subject that has become increasingly prominent.
It is the role of the Audit Committee to recommend the appointment of auditors and to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence are maintained.
During the year it agreed a policy consistent with Patricia Hewitts Committees guidelines on the provision of non-audit services to audit clients.
Prior to commencing any piece of work the external auditors are required to have the work authorised by the Audit Committee, and reports are provided to the Committee detailing all such work.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its application of corporate governance principles in relation to directors remuneration are given in the Report on directors remuneration and related matters on page 30.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are John Peace Chairman, Rose Marie Bravo, Philip Bowman and Guy Peyrelongue.
Caroline Marland was a member of the Committee until her resignation from the Board.
The Committee met twice during the year under review.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending appointments to the Board.
Independent external search consultants are engaged to assist in the process of identifying and or assessing the suitability of candidates and or potential candidates suitability is researched by the Chairman of the Committee.
Details of candidates are prepared for review by the Committee which then makes a recommendation to the Board.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Relations with Shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim Reports, quarterly trading updates and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company communicates with its institutional investors frequently and regularly throughout the year through a combination of formal and informal meetings, participation at sector-specific conferences and ad-hoc briefings with management.
The Board is kept abreast of the views of major shareholders by briefings from the Companys Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Analysts notes and brokers briefings are also used to achieve a greater understanding of investors views of the Company.
The Companys non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Non-executive director, are available to meet with any of the Companys major shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting be requested.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the 2005 AGM was sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before shareholders.
Philip Bowman Chairman of the Audit Committee did not attend the 2005 AGM at the request of the Board for medical reasons and Guy Peyrelongue Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was unable to attend the 2005 AGM.
It is the intention that all directors will attend the forthcoming AGM and will be available to answer shareholders questions.
In keeping with the Companys usual practice, voting on each of the resolutions to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM will be conducted by a poll.
The level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the number of proxy votes for and against the resolution will be made available at the AGM on request and will be published on the Companys website.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Details on the Companys approach to CSR are given on pages 41 to 45.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 46, which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Group Report of the Auditors on page 47, which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
It currently believes that the Groups financial control procedures are adequate and that there are not any material weaknesses.
As indicated last year, the business has started a major process re-engineering exercise, and this and a number of internal audits have highlighted opportunities for improvements in operational efficiency and controls.
A number of these opportunities have already been addressed and work is in progress to further strengthen the senior management team and address the outstanding issues.
During the year, significant investment was made in further strengthening the Audit and Risk Assurance function to help ensure that the Board has visibility of the key risks and progress against plans to address them.
In accordance with the guidance for directors on internal control The Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process will be regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with The Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures operating within the Group are as follows: Risk assessment The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering operational, financial, compliance and other risks.
The Risk Committee meets formally on a six-monthly basis to re-evaluate risk and to consider the work of the Internal Audit and Risk Assurance team.
The Director of Audit and Risk Assurance attends these meetings.
28 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Internal control continued Control environment and control activities The Group consists of a number of business units, each with its own management structure which forms part of the overall management structure of the Group.
The senior executives of these units report to the executive directors.
The Group has established procedures for the delegation of authorities for matters that are considered significant, either because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure that approval is considered at an appropriate level.
The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are either already laid down or are being established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, compliance with legislation and physical security.
The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include a framework of internal control and the use of third party services to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches are taken, such as insurance and the use of treasury instruments to hedge specific foreign currency exposures.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results supported by commentary and performance measures is provided to the Board each month.
The performance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of business performance.
A summary of the key business risks and relevant control measures is submitted by the executive directors to the Audit Committee at the end of the financial year.
The Audit Committee meets with both external and internal auditors, and can do so without the presence of executive directors, if it so chooses.
Monitoring A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of internal control within the Group.
These include management review, management confirmations of compliance with standards and procedures as well as internal audit and other specialist reviews.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Compliance with the Code Provisions Unless otherwise stated above, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period under review with the following further exceptions: The Code states that directors notice or contract termination periods should be set at one year or less.
Ms Bravos service agreement dated 28 May 2002 was amended in June 2004, which had the effect of extending its initial fixed period by a year to 30 June 2006.
This fixed period has not been further extended.
The Report on directors remuneration and related matters sets out further details of Ms Bravos service agreement.
As explained in previous years, at the time of the IPO, Burberry adopted various share incentive schemes which are not compliant with the Code in certain respects.
In particular, there are no performance conditions attached to the vesting of options and granting of awards under these schemes.
As reported last year, the Company has ceased granting awards under these schemes unless it had a prior contractual commitment and does not intend to make any further awards under these schemes.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 29
