Kensington Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2006 39 Corporate governance Principles of corporate governance The Board of Kensington Group plc Group recognises the importance of good corporate governance to support the delivery of long-term profitable growth and to enhance and protect shareholder value.
The Board applies the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2003 in a transparent and practical manner with regard to the Groups business.
Compliance statement During the year the Group has complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the ways in which the relevant principles were applied are described in the appropriate sections of this statement and in the Report of the Board to shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 29 to 38.
Board of Directors Composition of the Board The Board comprises the Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors who are collectively responsible for: providing leadership to the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls: setting the Groups strategic aims: and ensuring that the resources are in place to achieve the objectives.
The Chairman of the Board is Mr P Birch who is not considered by the Board to be independent as he held share options in the Group.
The Board regards all the non-executive directors, with the exception of Mr P Birch, as independent of management.
The directors have no relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr D Jones and the Chief Executive is Mr J Maltby.
The names and biographies of the directors in office at the date of this report are set out on page 24.
Although they are not actively involved in the day-to-day management of the Group, the non-executive directors play an important role in bringing their independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations and constructively challenging the management team.
From time to time the non-executive directors meet in the absence of the executive directors.
The composition of the Board is kept under review to ensure that collectively the directors have the necessary skills and experience to direct the Groups business and that there is an appropriate balance between executive and non-executive directors.
Operation of the Board The Board has 11 regularly scheduled meetings a year to review operating, financial and risk performance, management performance against key targets and objectives and internal controls.
In addition, the Board held a one-day meeting during the year to review the Companys strategy.
The members of the Board visit the Groups key locations and receive presentations from individual business units.
In addition, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors and hold informal meetings with them to review issues affecting the Group.
There are a number of matters specifically reserved for the Boards approval which include the Groups overall business strategy and annual budget, investment and capital expenditure, risk management policies and the Groups financing and dividend policies.
The Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice at the Groups expense when required in order for them to carry out their duties.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
The Groups Articles of Association provide that all directors are subject to retirement, and are eligible for re-election every three years.
Subject to the Groups Articles of Association and satisfactory performance, non-executive directors are initially appointed for a period of one year and the standard terms are available on application from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Opportunities for executive directors to hold positions in external bodies will be considered by the Board if there are benefits to the Group and the positions do not distract directors from their responsibilities to the Group.
Kensington Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2006 40 Corporate governance continued The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, Mr P Birch, and the Chief Executive, Mr J Maltby, is clearly defined and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day-to-day business of the Group.
The Chief Executive is directly responsible for the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for its financial and operational performance.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for the Board as a whole.
Professional development As part of the induction process, on appointment, all directors receive information about the Group, its strategy, products, markets and financial position as well as the role of the Board and the legal, regulatory and other obligations of a director of a listed company.
Throughout the term of their appointment directors are updated on the Groups operational and financial performance and changes to the regulatory framework within which it operates both by written briefings and presentations from senior members of the management team.
Evaluation of Board performance The Board has undertaken an evaluation of its performance and that of its committees.
The Chairman led the assessment of the Chief Executive and the non-executive directors: the Chief Executive reviewed the executive director and the senior independent director conducted a review of the performance of the Chairman.
The evaluation process covered Board processes, the structure and capability of the Board, strategic clarity and alignment, Board dynamics and the skills brought to the Board by each director.
In undertaking the evaluation the Chairman held structured meetings with each director and this was supported by the completion of a questionnaire.
The evaluations found the performance of each director to be effective and the Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, ability, experience and sufficient time, taking account of other commitments, to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
The review concluded that the Board provides effective leadership and the appropriate level of control required for a listed company.
The Chairman confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 2007 continued to be effective and the Group should support their re-election.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to review its performance and that of its directors and its committees annually.
Board Committees The Board has established four committees, each with specified terms of reference, to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities, namely: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Risk Management Committee.
The terms of reference for each of these committees are published on the Groups website at www.
co. uk and are also available on application from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Kensington Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2006 41 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprised the three independent non-executive directors under the chairmanship of Mr D Jones, who is a Chartered Accountant and a Fellow of the Institute of Corporate Treasurers.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management: considering any changes to the Groups accounting policies: keeping under review the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of both the external and internal audits: and monitoring the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Results focussing on changes in accounting policies, key areas of judgement and compliance with accounting principles and regulatory requirements.
Additional meetings were arranged during the year to fully discuss the impact of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Companys financial results.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, Head of Group Internal Audit and where appropriate, a partner from the external auditors normally attend meetings.
The external and internal auditors are given the opportunity to raise any matters in the absence of executive directors at separate meetings.
The members of the Audit Committee as at 29 January 2007 are: Mr D Jones Chairman Mr J Herring Mr T Strauss Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprised the three independent non-executive directors under the chairmanship of Mr D Jones.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the executive directors, Company Secretary and the Chairman: for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for specified senior managers below Board level: and overseeing the Groups share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee oversees the preparation of the Report of the Board to shareholders on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 29 to 38 which contains information on the Groups remuneration policy for executive and non-executive directors.
The members of the Remuneration Committee as at 29 January 2007 are: Mr D Jones Chairman Mr J Herring Mr T Strauss Kensington Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2006 42 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises two independent non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive under the chairmanship of Mr D Jones.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the Boards consideration and approval to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Nomination Committee has access to recruitment consultants to ensure that it receives objective and independent advice.
During the year, Mr R Blundell was appointed to the Board as the Group Finance Director.
A detailed candidate profile was prepared for the appointment and an external search consultancy retained to identify prospective candidates from which a short-list was presented to the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee as at 29 January 2007 are: Mr D Jones Chairman Mr J Herring Mr J Maltby Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee comprises two of the independent non-executive directors, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director under the Chairmanship of Mr D Jones.
The Risk Management Committee reviews and challenges the Group managements identification, assessment and monitoring of all risks faced by the Group including credit, business, operational and compliance risks.
The members of the Risk Management Committee as at 29 January 2007 are: Mr D Jones Chairman Mr J Herring Mr J Maltby Mr R Blundell Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 November 2006 Group Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk management Mr P Birch 11 11 Mr D Jones 11 11 7 7 9 9 1 1 3 3 Mr J Herring 11 11 7 7 9 9 1 1 3 3 Mr T Strauss 10 11 7 7 8 9 Mr J Maltby 11 11 1 1 3 3 1 Mr R Blundell 4 11 1 3 2 Mr S Colsell 6 11 2 3 1 Mr R Blundell was appointed to the Board on 29 August 2006 and has attended all meetings scheduled since his appointment.
2 Mr S Colsell resigned from the Board with effect from 11 August 2006.
Investor relations The Board recognises the importance of good communication with all shareholders and values the dialogue with its institutional shareholders through meetings and results presentations.
The Board reviews monthly updates on changes in the Groups share register together with feedback from any meetings held with shareholders.
Directors also receive copies of analyst research notes on the Group and reports from the Groups public relations advisers including feedback from the investor meetings with the Executive Directors.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with key institutional shareholders and general presentations are made when the financial results are announced.
Institutional shareholders may also request a meeting with the Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director.
The Annual General Meeting, which all directors are expected to attend, provides an opportunity to communicate with other shareholders, who are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman and the other directors.
The Group website provides investors with information about the Group including the share price, annual and interim results and terms of reference of the Board Committees.
Kensington Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2006 43 Corporate governance continued Accountability and audit Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control system which encompasses all risks faced by the Group including business, operational and compliance risks.
Although they cannot provide absolute assurance, these systems of internal control are designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives and to provide reasonable assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards in place to protect the Group from the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the whole of the financial year and has remained in place up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
Some of the Groups activities are regulated under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA and are subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority.
FSMA requires the Group to conduct its business with integrity, maintain adequate financial resources and implement suitable risk management systems.
The Group meets regularly with its supervisors and conducts the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
Monitoring the effectiveness of internal control is undertaken by the Audit Committee which receives regular reports from both the internal audit function and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control which operated during the year ended 30 November 2006.
Key elements of the internal control system include: A well defined management structure with clear accountabilities and delegated authorities supported by established policies and procedures: Executive management committees to augment and support the oversight role of the Board: A risk management framework requiring senior management to identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls through key performance indicators.
The Risk Management Committee oversees the implementation of the framework and the operation of internal controls is subject to internal audit review, which is reported to the Audit Committee: A Group risk management function with overarching responsibility for the monitoring and reporting of all major risks to which the Group is exposed, supported by operational and credit risk specialists within the business: An internal audit function reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key controls in relation to significant risks: A planning and budget process providing detailed annual financial forecasts and strategic and operational targets for the Boards approval.
Actual performance against budgets and targets is reviewed monthly by the Board and the annual budget is reforecast on a quarterly basis: A compliance function which manages relationships with the Groups key regulators and identifies and controls compliance risks: and A schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards approval to ensure that it has effective control over key financial, strategic and operational issues.
Audit services The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are appointed annually by the shareholders and are responsible for carrying out the statutory audit.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance on an ongoing basis.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also provide further assurance services to the Group including work relating to: the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, the ongoing securitisation programme, regulatory requirements and taxation.
The Groups normal policy is to appoint the external auditors to undertake this work because of their detailed knowledge of the Groups business and their relevant expertise.
During the year the Group also retained Ernst & Young to provide specialist audit services to supplement the in-house internal audit team.
Financial reporting The directors believe that the annual report provides a balanced view of the Groups financial position and future prospects.
A review of the Groups operational and financial performance is set out in the Business and operational review on pages 4 to 17 and the Financial Review on pages 18 to 23.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 46.
The Groups financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee with the Groups external auditors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Going concern Under company law the directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare accounts on the basis that the Group is a going concern.
As part of the planning and budgeting cycle, the Group prepares annual budgets and longer-term financial and business plans.
Taking this information into account, the directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
