Principal Risks and Uncertainties There is an ongoing process for identifying, in legislation, and the differing interpretation portfolio of protection business, whilst the evaluating and managing significant risks and application of regulation over time, may risk of adverse claims experience is fully have a detrimental effect on the Groups assessed and reserved for, an event causing which is comprehensive and systematic.
widespread mortality or morbidity, coupled strategy and profitability.
with a re-insurer default, may impact the Principal Risks and Uncertainties confidence in the UK Financial capital available to the Group.
A significant part of the Groups business Services Sector involves the acceptance and management of The Group has followed a strategy of offering Future Savings Market risk.
A detailed review of the Groups inherent value-for-money products to its customers A number of Legal & Generals businesses exposures to market, credit, insurance, liquidity and continually improving customers are focused on the long terms savings and and operational risks, together with the overall experience of doing business with retirement product markets.
The factors framework for their management, is set out Legal & General.
Whilst this enables the leading customers to save and to provide on page 38.
An overview of the Groups risk Group to differentiate itself from its for old age are influenced by a number of management framework is given on page 38 competitors, earnings and profitability are also factors including government policy, social as part of the review of Corporate Governance.
influenced by the confidence of the retail conditions and the general economic investor in the financial services sector as a Whilst, at present, the Board considers that environment.
The Group seeks to participate whole, a number of drivers of which are beyond there are no immediate risks likely to have actively in debate to highlight those matters the Groups control.
Such factors include the a significant impact on the short or long which are key to encouraging consumers to adverse performance of investment markets, term value of the Group, principal risks and save and make adequate provision for old age.
actions by regulators within the sector and uncertainties may be categorised as follows: However, consumer uncertainty in any of the shock events such as significant market failures.
above factors may have a detrimental effect Legislation and Regulation on these markets.
Market and Economic Conditions Confidence in the UK Financial Legal & General is a significant provider of Services Sector Resources term assurance and critical illness products.
Market and Economic conditions Legal & General has market leading expertise These products are typically purchased as part Mortality & Catastrophe risks in a number of the fields in which it operates.
of the house buying event or when a property Future Savings Market The Group actively focuses on retaining is being re-mortgaged.
The Group also Resources the best personnel and ensuring that key provides household and buildings insurance.
dependencies do not arise through employee Legislation and Regulation Whilst the Group is structured to enable training & development programmes, The financial services markets in which the resources to be re-directed at other product remuneration strategies and succession Group operates are highly regulated, with lines, a downturn in the housing market planning.
However, the sudden unanticipated regulation defining the overall framework could impact product volumes and short loss of teams of expertise may, in the for the design, marketing and distribution of term earnings.
short term, impact certain segments products: the acceptance and administration of Legal & Generals businesses.
Legal & General is also a leading provider of of business: and the prudential capital that index-tracking funds to both pension schemes regulated companies should hold.
The fees for managing Governmental fiscal policy may also influence these funds are directly linked to the value of the design of products distributed by the funds under management.
As such, significant Group and the mechanisms for reserving for falls in the value of tracker funds would future liabilities.
Additionally, there is a impact earnings for these businesses.
growing international dimension and the Mortality and Catastrophe Risks volume of regulatory and legislative change The Group writes significant levels of is increasing.
Principal risks and uncertainties immediate and deferred annuity business.
impacting this year have been described in The Group uses its pricing capability for Note 51 on pages 106 to 116. longevity risks to ensure that an appropriate The Groups activities and strategies are based risk premium is applied to the business, upon prevailing legislation and regulation, taking account of all known risk factors.
with continuous monitoring to ensure that the However, significant unforeseen medical Group meets its regulatory obligations.
The advances may result in the requirement to potential for change is continuously identified increase reserves for these lines of business.
Sudden, unanticipated changes With regard to the Groups significant www.
com 27 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Social Responsibility Customer Experience Programme Employees, customers and advisers want to join us, stay with us and Making recommend us.
Launched in March 2005, this is the vision for our Customer Experience a difference Programme, which we believe is making real progress towards delivering a positive experience Through its products and services for our customers.
Legal & General makes a significant Delivering a positive experience and valuable contribution, not for our customers only to millions of individuals but to Customers are at the heart of our society as a whole.
Our scale and business, and we continually strive to the long term nature of our products, meet the demands and challenges where customer relationships may of delivering the products they want last for decades, create a duty to and need in order to develop a strong, behave responsibly and make sustainable business.
We are committed sound decisions.
to working with the FSA and the ABI and we rmly believe that they both For Legal & General, Corporate Social play a vital part in boosting consumer Responsibility CSR involves the proper confidence in the long term savings management of our relationships with and protection market.
customers, suppliers, shareholders and employees, along with the impact our Training our employees business makes upon society and the Training and communication are environment.
Adherence to strong CSR vital.
During 2006, over 5,000 frontline principles is not just part of good business, employees attended workshops to but essential to our long term success.
learn about their role in improving Customers customer experience.
Ideas in Our customers are central to our strategy.
Action, our programme to encourage Legal & General currently supplies products employees to give us their ideas or services to over five million customers.
on how service could be improved, Our successful business model is founded generated more than 3,000 ideas, upon providing them with good value which contributed to our winning four products, quality service and a choice of trophies at the independent annual ways to buy through a wide range of ideasUK awards.
We support the Association of British Insurers ABI Customer Experience initiative and we are committed to applying the principles of the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Treating Customers Fairly initiative consistently throughout our business.
Our approach goes beyond mere regulatory compliance.
We know that it is important to our customers that Legal & General is a good corporate citizen.
Research has indicated to us how our customers think we should behave and we know that they have growing expectations.
We listen to them and seek to understand and respond to their concerns.
Employees Investing in our 9,700 employees is another key element of our strategy.
Our workforce 28 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 is our most valuable asset, and we have implemented a wide range of policies to maximise opportunities for all employees.
Our strong, open partnership with our union, Amicus, is a critical part of the Legal & General culture.
Our employees have told us that they want to work for an ethical company which takes its responsibilities to society and the environment seriously.
We regard responsible behaviour and good management of our Companys social and environmental impact as an important factor in being able to recruit and retain a talented and motivated workforce.
Investment Our Birmingham ofce supports Help the Ageds HandyVan scheme in the local area.
As one of the UKs leading institutional investors, with over 230bn under management on behalf of investors, Improving customer service The Customer Impact Scheme policyholders and institutions, we have a In February 2006, we were the first When things go wrong it is important unique opportunity and responsibility to us that we put them right in a company to sign up to the ABIs to exert a positive influence on the companies new Customer Impact Scheme.
way which encourages customers in which we invest.
We expect companies to stay with us and recommend us.
As part of the Scheme, our Group in which we invest to adopt a responsible Board has signed up to three key One of our customer experience approach to social, environmental and ethical projects has focused on improving commitments to ensure that the SEE issues.
We support the ABI Disclosure needs of the customer are at the how customers feel about us by Guidelines, which call on companies to delivering improvements to the core of our business: disclose that the business and reputational way we look after our customers risks arising from these areas are being Developing and promoting when they complain.
assessed and managed, and we regularly products and services which discuss both SEE and governance issues meet the needs of customers with FTSE 350 companies.
Providing customers with clear information and good service With many of our pension fund clients Customer Feedback showing interest in the influence we bring when they buy products to bear on companies on SEE issues, being Maintaining appropriate and a responsible and active shareholder is an effective relationships with increasingly important element of our customers, providing them with investment strategy.
a good service after they have bought a product.
Environment I found the site very clear.
Our sphere of responsibility also includes It goes to what you want it to Advisers managing and minimising our direct impact go to and you know what to Our Business Partners are a very on the environment, and we have a number do next.
Some sites are very important link with our customers so of targets which support our efforts in this unclear and I just give up on we are delighted with their positive area.
Current initiatives include working to them.
That means they lose response to the improvements we reduce the proportion of office waste going my custom.
have made in communicating with to landfill, establishing staff recycling points them more effectively.
for telephones and computers, and promoting www.
com 29 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Social Responsibility cont.
car sharing, as well as ensuring that customers live and work, is important environmental factors are taken into to us.
Strategic and effective community account in the construction of new office involvement is an integral part of our buildings.
With climate change moving business activity, and our programme higher up the public agenda a current involves developing partnerships with priority is considering new strategies to both national charities and those which further reduce our carbon dioxide emissions.
are local to our main offices.
We also operate In 2005, we switched to recycled photocopier a range of schemes designed to support and paper across the Company, and in 2006 we encourage employees in their community extended this environmental commitment involvement, including a payroll giving 55% by switching to 55% recycled paper for all scheme and sponsorship matching scheme our marketing material.
As a result of these whereby the Company matches employees moves, every year Legal & General expects fundraising for charity.
We also run a Young we switched to 55% to save approximately 11,000 trees and two Excellence Scheme through which we support recycled paper for all million kilowatt hours of electricity.
young people who have shown exceptional our marketing material sporting, musical or creative talent.
During Supply Chain 2006, Legal & Generals total community We purchase goods and services from over contribution exceeded 2.5m.
Suppliers make an important contribution to our business and we seek to Governance establish mutually beneficial commercial Legal & Generals CSR Committee meets relationships with them.
We have a duty to four times a year, and is responsible for treat suppliers in a fair and ethical manner, developing the Companys strategy, overseeing and we also seek to influence our suppliers to its implementation and monitoring adopt responsible business practices.
It is chaired by our Group for the first time, 100% of our key suppliers Chief Executive, Tim Breedon, and includes were compliant with our environmental a representative from Amicus.
The Group requirements, and we expanded our assessment Board reviews the minutes of the Committee of suppliers to include social and ethical and conducts an annual review of the issues.
Guidelines were also developed Committee, policy and programme.
The to influence key suppliers and support Board also receives an annual presentation their supplier managers, which reflect on the CSR programme and specific elements Legal & Generals CSR standards.
of our CSR programme are discussed as appropriate throughout the year.
Communities Supporting the communities in which The CSR Guiding Principles described in we operate, and where our employees and our CSR Report set the tone for the work Promoting cycling and other environmental travel options is a key aspect of our environmental programme.
Award winning year for Legal & Generals website Legal & General was the first company in the financial services sector, and the first FTSE 100 company, to achieve Accessibility Accreditation for its website from Shaw Trust.
The Guild of Accessible Web Designers also voted our website Accessible site of the Month financial sector in January 2007.
30 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 of the Committee and its members.
With reference to these Principles, the CSR Committee undertakes an annual review of social, environmental and ethical risks and opportunities.
Responsibility for this review, for assessing likelihood and impact, and for managing the risks and opportunities, is delegated to the relevant Committee member, their management team or the appropriate sub-committee.
Targets are established where appropriate.
The CSR Report is verified by Legal & General Group Internal Audit.
The verification statement detailing the scope of work carried out, and the conclusions reached, can be found at the end of the 2006 CSR Report.
Gareth Hoskin right, Resources and International Director, signing the Amicus Equal Pay Charter with Andy Case from Amicus left.
Feedback on Legal & Generals CSR performance is obtained through stakeholder engagement and external rating agency surveys.
Changes at a glance We consulted with Amicus about In summary, we recognise that CSR is a Increasing accessibility to screen the redundancy payment terms need to have rather than a nice to have, readers and search engines for staff grade employees, which and that responsible behaviour brings value resulted in improved terms for most Contact Us facility that means to our business.
Key challenges for 2007 staff grade employees.
customers can navigate their include exploring how we can embed way to whatever they want in responsible behaviour even deeper into Legal & General signed the Amicus just two clicks our business and develop new ways to Equal Pay Charter to demonstrate communicate our activities with our many Removal of jargon our commitment to paying the same stakeholders.
This will include a review of salary and bonus to employees Being crystal clear about what can our CSR reporting structure and, as always, doing the same job.
and cannot be bought online we value your views and suggestions.
We introduced Childcare Vouchers Quicker and easier quotations and For further information please visit our for our employees to enable them CSR Report 2006. online applications to take advantage of tax benets.
com csr Information customers really want Following extensive promotion of our made easier to nd Give As You Earn scheme during the More efficient and faster.
year nearly 12% of employees now donate regularly to charity via the Highlights of 2006 scheme, enabling us to retain the We retained our membership of Payroll Giving Gold Award for the the FTSE4Good index series and second consecutive year.
the Dow Jones Sustainability World index, and we qualied We switched to 55% recycled paper for the Dow Jones Sustainability for all our marketing material.
STOXX index for the first time.
We successfully transferred Amicus gained collective employees in our Hove ofce to new representation for first level premises, which incorporate a wide range of energy-saving features.
