Directors Report on Remuneration cont.
Proportion of Base Salary vs Performance Related Remuneration % bonus payments will only increase for the delivery of superior performance.
The executive directors bonuses are based on a variety Chief Executive of targets, including Group KPIs applicable to all directors, Other executive performance of the business unit for which the individual is directors responsible where applicable, and personal targets.
The bonus Salary which results from the delivery of these objectives will be reviewed Target bonus by the Committee based on its view of the executives overall performance and regulatory compliance.
Expected value of long term incentive plan As stated above, 37.5% of any bonus earned is normally deferred into shares under the Share Bonus Plan.
The Plan grants conditional shares which are held in a trust for three years during which time Remuneration Policy for Other Senior Executives The remuneration policy for senior executives below Board level is dividends are paid.
It is a deferred bonus scheme with awards designed to encourage employee retention based on annual consistent with that followed at executive director level.
There are 28 executives in the UK whose salaries exceed 150,000. performance.
It is not a long term incentive plan and there are no performance conditions for release.
The value of the shares Salary Range Number of Executives awarded to directors is reported in the year of performance.
The chart overleaf summarises the key features of the bonuses 150,000 175,999 16 for each executive director.
176,000 200,999 5 201,000 225,999 4 Performance Share Plan 226,000 250,999 2 Executive directors are entitled to participate in the Groups 251,000 1 Performance Share Plan PSP, which is the only long term incentive arrangement available to senior executives in the Group, though The total salaries of these executives is 5,195,842. the Remuneration Committee is considering the introduction of a specic arrangement for the LGIM business.
The PSP was approved Salary by shareholders in 2004.
The policy is to pay salaries around the mid-market level for the Under the PSP, basic awards of shares are made to top managers.
individual performance within the context of the relevant market for The Committee reviews the quantum of basic awards made each the job.
However, when setting salaries, judgement is exercised by the year to ensure that it is in line with the market.
The maximum annual Committee, having regard to individual experience and responsibility.
basic award in 2006 and 2007 is 50% of salary.
Accordingly, particularly when a new appointment is made, The number of shares which vest is dependent on salary levels may be set at a lower level than the mid-market Legal & Generals Total Shareholder Return TSR compared position, with a view to increasing towards this position over the two with that of the other FTSE 100 companies at the date of award to three years following promotion.
This approach is being followed measured over a xed three year period.
The award will lapse if in the case of Tim Breedons appointment to the role of Group Chief Legal & Generals TSR is ranked below median at the end of the Executive and in respect of John Pollock.
Salary is the only pensionable remuneration and it is normally If the TSR is at median then the basic award will vest and be reviewed annually with effect from January.
They will receive four times the basic The base salaries for the executive directors for the financial year award if Legal & General is ranked at the 20th position or above beginning on 1 January 2007 are as follows: at the end of the three year period, with the amounts reducing on a pro rata basis between 20th position and median.
The FTSE 100 Tim Breedon 740,000 is currently considered to be an appropriate comparator group.
The TSR performance conditions are independently reviewed Kate Avery 350,000 by NBSC.
Andrew Palmer 440,000 Additionally, the Committee assesses whether the underlying Robin Phipps 450,000 performance of the Company is reective of the TSR out-turn.
In John Pollock 320,000 exceptional circumstances, the Committee may exercise their discretion to scale back the vesting of awards, if it was felt that the Companys financial performance did not justify the level of vesting.
Annual Bonus For payments relating to 2007 performance the maximum annual The parameters which the Committee use in making this assessment include market share, partnerships gained and maintained, cost bonus potential for the executive directors has been increased from 96% to 105% of salary of which approximately 62.5% of any bonus constraint, capital management and shareholder perception.
earned is normally paid in cash, with the balance being paid in shares under the Share Bonus Plan described below.
This increase Dilution Limits The PSP and the Share Bonus Plan operate with market purchased recognises the need to pay the executive directors competitively relative to other companies of a similar size and complexity.
shares which are held in an Employee benefit Trust.
The Companys all-employee plans may be satisfied using either new-issue or market The proportion of bonusable targets based on empirical measures and group performance has been increased.
The level of bonus purchased shares.
The Companys all-employee plans and the now closed Executive payable for on-target performance has not increased, and is based on the mid-market bonus levels for the job in comparator Share Option Plan operate within the ABIs dilution limit of 5% in 10 years for executive schemes and all its plans operate within the 10% companies.
This remains at 80% of salary for the Group Chief Executive of which a maximum of 50% is payable in cash and 30% in 10 years limit for all schemes.
As at 31 December 2006, the Company had 4.37% share capital available under the 5% in 10 years limit, and in deferred shares, and for the other executive directors it is 64% of salary comprising 40% cash and 24% deferred shares.
Accordingly, 8.83% share capital available under the 10% in ten years limit.
42 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006
