Directors Report on Remuneration Dear Shareholder, policies and practices are free from unfair bias.
This is monitored by I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report an annual equal pay audit.
on directors remuneration for 2006, the forthcoming financial year, and subject to ongoing review, subsequent years.
The policy for executive directors is described in more detail below.
A resolution to vote for the Directors remuneration report will be put to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
I hope that you will Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors support this resolution.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a period of three years.
Their performance is reviewed annually.
They may be reappointed for a further three years and, if considered appropriate and depending on performance, a final period of three years.
Appointments may be terminated by either party without notice.
Fees for the non-executive directors are determined by the Group Sir David Walker Board, based on a range of external information and advice set Chairman of the Remuneration Committee within the aggregate limits contained in the Articles of Association.
During 2006, the fees of the non-executive directors including the Directors Report on Remuneration Chairman were reviewed.
The conclusion of the review was that no The report of the Remuneration Committee has been prepared change should be made to the fees of the non-executive directors, in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the which are set out below.
The Chairmans fee which is a single amount Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration encompassing all his responsibilities was increased to 325,000 per Report Regulations 2002.
It also describes the Groups compliance annum with effect from 1 January 2007.
Other non-executive directors with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance in relation receive a base fee of 60,000.
An additional fee of 40,000 is payable to remuneration.
for the joint role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Vice Chairman.
An additional fee of 20,000 is payable to the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee.
These additional fees reect The Committee is chaired by Sir David Walker.
The other members the responsibility and time commitment required of these roles.
are Beverley Hodson, Ronaldo Schmitz, James Strachan and Sir Rob It is expected that non-executive directors will use 50% of their fees, Margetts.
Sir Rob Margetts who was independent on appointment after UK tax, to buy Legal & General shares, to be retained by them was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 12 December for their remaining period of ofce.
There is no remuneration other 2006, having previously attended by invitation.
All other members than these non-pensionable fees except where the Company of the Committee are independent.
meets authorised expenses of non-executive directors incurred By invitation the meetings are also attended by the Group Chief on Legal & General activities.
The Resources & International Director, Gareth Hoskin, Current contract Current contract attends as the executive responsible for advising on remuneration NED start date end date policy.
No person is present during any discussion relating to their Frances Heaton June 2004 June 2007 own remuneration.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC, which the Committee appointed, acts as independent adviser to Beverley Hodson November 2006 May 2007 the Committee and attends the meetings.
NBSC does not provide Sir Rob Margetts October 2005 May 2008 any other services to the Company, other than remuneration advice.
Rudy Markham October 2006 October 2009 The remuneration strategy, policy and approach for all staff are Ronaldo Schmitz November 2006 May 2010 reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Committee considers the policy in relation to senior executive remuneration in the context Henry Staunton May 2004 May 2007 of remuneration structures across the Group as a whole.
All share James Strachan December 2006 December 2009 schemes and long term incentive plans are established and monitored Sir David Walker February 2005 February 2008 by the Committee.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board each year in respect of the Chairman, executive directors Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives remuneration.
The remuneration of the Groups executive directors comprises salary, In March 2007, the recommendations were all accepted.
participation in an annual bonus plan paid partly in cash and partly The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available in deferred shares and the Groups Performance Share Plan PSP, on the Companys website or on request.
The terms of engagement which is a long term incentive plan, plus pension and ancillary between the Company and NBSC are available on request.
The variable elements of pay for example, the annual During the year the Remuneration Committee undertook a formal bonus plan and PSP are designed to provide a strong alignment review of its own effectiveness and is satisfied that it had been of interest between the individual and the shareholders through operating as an effective Remuneration Committee meeting all providing rewards which are linked to the generation of superior applicable regulatory requirements.
returns to shareholders and strong financial performance.
The chart illustrates that a significant proportion of pay is performance related.
Remuneration Policy When setting remuneration, regard is given to levels of pay in The Groups remuneration policy is broadly consistent for all individual market comparators, related to job size, function and employees and is designed to support recruitment, motivation and sector, and individual and company performance.
Remuneration is considered within the overall context of from a variety of independent sources including NBSC, Towers Perrin, both the sector of which the Group is a part and the Groups Watson Wyatt, Monks, which is part of , individual businesses.
The policy for the majority of employees our auditors, and McLagan.
Where possible, the practice is to use continues to be to pay around the relevant mid-market level with at least two independent sources of information for each individual a package designed to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders and with an appropriate proportion of total role.
The remuneration policy is to pay at or around the market median.
The market against which the remuneration for the remuneration dependent upon performance.
Management work in partnership with our trades union, Amicus, to ensure our pay executive directors is measured is primarily the FTSE 100, with special reference to companies in the UK financial services sector.
40 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION IN 2007 Element of remuneration package Purpose Policy Summary of how it operates Base Salary Help recruit and retain To pay at around the mid-market Paid monthly in cash key employees relative to the FTSE 100, with Normally reviewed by the Reect the individuals particular regard to other relevant Remuneration Committee experience and role financial institutions annually and xed for the within the Group Regard given to individual 12 months commencing Salary is supplemented with skills and experience 1 January normal benets available to In specic circumstances senior executives including car for example, a new appointment allowance, medical insurance may set salaries below midand staff discounts.
market, with a view to reaching Legal & General products mid-market level within two to can be acquired by executive three years directors on the terms available to other members of staff Annual Bonus Incentivise executives to achieve Maximum bonus potential set by All executive directors specic, pre-determined goals reference to market comparators have objectives related over a short term period currently 105% of base salary to Group KPIs, plus individual Reward ongoing stewardship On-target bonus of 80% of base divisional and personal targets and contribution to core values salary for the Group Chief Bonus out-turn determined Deferred element, awarded Executive and 64% of base salary by the Remuneration Committee in shares, provides a for the other executive directors after year end, based on retention element Percentage of bonus deferred performance against targets and awarded in shares Normally, 62.5% of the bonus paid in cash and 37.5% paid in deferred shares to be held for three years Performance Share Plan Incentivise executives to achieve Awards of nil cost shares Vesting condition measures the superior returns to shareholders made annually, with Groups TSR versus the FTSE 100 Align interests of executives and vesting conditional on relative The basic award of shares will shareholders through building total shareholder return TSR vest if TSR is at median, with a shareholding measured over the three the maximum amount vesting if Retain key executives subsequent years Legal & General is ranked at the over three year Maximum annual grant of basic twentieth percentile.
No awards performance period award is 50% of salary vest below median Maximum amount which may The Remuneration Committee vest is four times basic award will also assess whether the ie.
200% of salary and the underlying financial performance minimum which may vest is nil of the Company is reective of the TSR out-turn and in exceptional cases may scale back vesting Pension Reward sustained contribution Provide competitive Participation in a Group post-retirement benets pension scheme No compensation for public Accrue benets according policy or tax changes to length of service up to retirement Cash alternative for executive directors opting for enhanced protection above the Lifetime Allowance, see Pension sections, page 47 Share Ownership Guidelines To align the interests of executive The Group Chief Executive Executives are expected to build directors and shareholders is required to build and maintain a shareholding through the vesting a shareholding of shares under the Groups of 200% of base salary and, share incentive plans.
Existing for other executive directors, shareholdings and shares 100% of base salary acquired in the market are also taken into account www.
