Corporate governance aPPliCation oF ComBinED CoDE PrinCiPlEs The Board is committed to applying the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code for which it is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has applied the principles of section 1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code except in respect of certain matters as reported below.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
thE BoarD oF DirECtors As of 1 January 2006 the Board comprised three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman, Brian Lavers.
Alan Cole and Keith Henry were both considered to be independent in accordance with the Code.
On 24 May 2006, Brian Lavers announced that he would be stepping down as Chairman but would continue to serve as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board considers that following his resignation as Chairman, he is independent in accordance with the Code.
He was replaced as Chairman by Keith Henry who, in accordance with the Code, is not considered to be independent following the date of his appointment.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 22 and 23.
The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and a number of additional meetings.
The attendance record of the Directors is shown below.
Chairman anD ChiEF ExECutivE There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Keith Henry is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and the relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive, Atul Gupta, is responsible for formulating strategy and objectives and for their execution once agreed by the Board.
inDEPEnDEnCE non-ExECutivE DirECtors The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment, and both Alan Cole and Brian Lavers are considered to be independent according to the principles of the Code.
The Non-Executive Directors bring varied commercial experience to Board and committee deliberations.
They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after their appointment, after which their appointment may be extended for a second term, subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
Alan Cole was designated Senior Independent Director on 24 May 2006, succeeding Keith Henry upon his appointment as Chairman.
thE BoarDs rolE The Board approves the Groups strategy, key projects, major investment plans and annual budget.
It regularly reviews operational and financial performance against key performance indicators set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 13, risk management and investment controls, and health, safety, environment and community matters.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision including expenditure commitments over certain specified minima, investments, disposals, borrowings and hedging policy.
The Board delegates certain functions to its three principal committees.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for scrutinising the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors and has responsibility for succession planning at Board level.
attEnDanCE During the year the Directors attended the following number of meetings of the Board and its Committees: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 3 4 1 Number of meetings attended: Alan Cole 7 3 4 1 Atul Gupta 8 n a n a n a Andrei Pannikov 6 n a n a n a Andrew Rose 8 3 n a n a Brian Lavers 7 3 4 1 Finian OSullivan 8 n a n a n a Keith Henry 7 3 4 1 Michael Calvey 5 3 4 1 Pierre Lasry 7 n a n a n a During the year 2006 there were a total of six scheduled Board meetings held in the registered office in London.
26 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents inFormation anD DEvEloPmEnt During the year the Committee has met on three occasions, the The timeliness and quality of information provided to the Board was agendas being organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Chairman is It reviewed the annual 2005 and interim 2006 financial statements responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed on together with the accompanying announcements, paying particular issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely attention to the sufficiency and clarity of disclosure and any significant access to relevant information.
The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls and the internal control Members of the Board may take independent professional advice and risk management systems, as set out in more detail below.
at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
During the year the Company Secretary, Hywel John, has provided updates to During the year, the Committee considered in detail the results of the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst the Audit Committee the 2005 audit, reviewed the external auditors overall audit plan for regularly considers new accounting developments through presentations 2006 and approven their remuneration and terms of engagement.
from management and the external auditors.
The Board programme Subsequent to year-end the Committee has also assessed in detail includes presentations from management at every meeting which the results of the 2006 audit.
Having deemed the audit to be effective, increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business and considered their independence in the context of their non-audit and the sector.
remuneration, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be re-appointed as auditors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures In addition, the Committee undertook its annual review of the necessity are followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and to establish an internal audit function but currently considers that, removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved given the extent of central control of the operations of the Group and for the Board.
the direct involvement of senior management in control activities, there is no requirement for such a function.
PErFormanCE Evaluation During the year, the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its The Committee has reviewed the Companys whistleblowing performance and effectiveness, and its Committees.
Directors were procedures and confirmed that arrangements are in place to enable asked to complete an extensive questionnaire, to provide comments colleagues to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial on Board and Committee procedures and effectiveness, and to assess reporting and other matters on a confidential basis.
their own contributions to discussions and decision making.
The questionnaires were then reviewed by Brian Lavers, and key themes rEmunEration CommittEE were discussed at a subsequent Board meeting.
The evaluation The Remuneration Committee meets when necessary, and during process will be reviewed and developed over the current year.
2006 comprised of Keith Henry Chairman, Alan Cole, Michael Calvey and Brian Lavers.
It determines the remuneration of the Executive rE-ElECtion Directors.
Non-Executive Directors fees are considered and The Memorandum and Articles of Association require that at least one agreed by the Board.
Further details of the Companys policies third of the Board must go forward for reappointment at the AGM each on remuneration are given in the Directors Remuneration Report year, together with all new Directors appointed since the previous on pages 29 to 33.
Accordingly, no Director will serve a term in excess of three years without presenting themselves for re-election.
The Directors who nomination CommittEE are due to go forward for reappointment in the forthcoming AGM are The Nomination Committee meets when necessary and during 2006 Andrew Rose, Keith Henry and Pierre Lasry.
comprised of Keith Henry Chairman, Alan Cole, Michael Calvey and Brian Lavers.
Finian OSullivan and Atul Gupta are not members of the BoarD CommittEEs Committee although they are usually invited to attend meetings.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees as set out below.
When Keith Henry was appointed as Chairman in 2006, the The terms of reference of these Committees may be found on the Nomination Committee met and prepared a letter of appointment Groups website www.
that included his expected duties as Chairman and the anticipated time commitment to the Company.
The Board was made aware of auDit CommittEE his other significant commitments.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Alan Cole and further comprises Brian Lavers, Michael Calvey and Keith Henry.
The Board has determined intErnal Controls that Michael Calvey has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, Representatives of senior management and the external auditors are evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, usually invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary which has been in place from the start of the financial year to the acts as secretary to the Committee.
The external auditors have date of approval of this report.
The Directors acknowledge their unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
responsibility for the system of internal controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control can The role of the Audit Committee is to scrutinise the integrity of the only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material Groups financial statements, review the Groups risk management and financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to internal controls procedures, monitor the independence and objectivity achieve business objectives is eliminated.
of the external auditors and to approve their engagement to supply non-audit services.
27 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents Corporate governance continued The Groups risk and controls framework covers all material risks and CommuniCation with sharEholDErs controls including those of an operational, financial, and compliance Burren Energy is committed to maintaining good communications nature.
Internal control procedures consist, inter alia, of formal with investors, who, along with analysts, are invited to presentations delegations of expenditure authority by the Board to executive following announcements of annual and interim results.
The contents management, and controls relating to key stages of transactions of these presentations are posted on the Companys website, including supplier approval, contract signature, and payment release.
co. uk, so as to be available to all investors.
Three major Expenditure delegations are reviewed by the Board at least annually shareholders have direct representation on the Board.
Communication and approved together with the annual budget.
These control with other major shareholders was effected through meetings during processes are complemented by effective monitoring at each stage the year.
The Board is kept informed by the Chief Executive and the in the cycle of transactions and by a regular detailed reporting system.
Chief Financial Officer as to the views of the Companys shareholders.
The Audit Committee conducted its annual review of risk and controls Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board prior to year-end and reported its findings to the Board.
Each potential at the AGM which will be held on 23 May 2007, at which the Senior risk was assessed and ranked in terms of potential impact on financial Independent Director and all Executive Directors will be available.
statements, impact on business value, probability of occurrence, A detailed explanation of each item of special business to be considered shareholder tolerance level and cost of mitigation.
Policies and at the AGM is included with the notice of meeting which will be sent to measures in place were reviewed and recommended actions identified.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Directors consider that the frequency of Board meetings and level ComPlianCE with thE CoDE Provisions of detail presented to the Board for its consideration in relation to the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the Company has operations of the Group provide an appropriate process to identify, been in compliance with section 1 of the provisions of the Code, evaluate and manage significant risks relevant to its operations on a except for the following matters: continuous basis, and this process is considered to be in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control published in October a.
In order to achieve a greater formalisation A.
2.1 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and of the review process a policy was adopted early 2006 for risk and Chief Executive has not been set out in writing and considered internal control matters to be included as a specific agenda item at formally by the Board.
every Board meeting, when any control failings or weaknesses are A.
3.2 The Code requires at least half of the Board to be Independent reported on by management.
Burren only had two Independent Non-Executive board members during 2006.
The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of A.
7.2 There was no formal confirmation to shareholders as to the internal controls and risk management during the year, consider that the effectiveness of performance and commitment to the role of system of internal control operated appropriately throughout the financial Non-Executive Director exhibited by Michael Calvey and Brian year and up to the date that the financial statements were signed.
Lavers in connection with the resolutions presented at the AGM in May 2006 to re-elect them as Directors.
During the course of review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failures or weaknesses B. remuneration which it has determined to be significant.
2.1 The Nominations Committee did not include a majority of respect of necessary action has not been considered appropriate.
2.2 The Remuneration Committee did not include at least three Hindustan Oil Exploration Company HOEC, an associate in which Independent Non-Executive Directors in 2006. the Group has a 27% interest has not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Guidance.
C. accountability and audit C. 3.1 The Audit Committee did not include at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors in 2006, nor was it comprised solely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
C. 3.2 Arrangements were not in place until April 2006 whereby an employee could, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
28 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents
