CORPORATE GOVERNANCE London Stock Exchange plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the Company has complied with all provisions of the Combined Code throughout the period except as explained in the Report below.
Following the introduction of London Stock Exchange Group plc as the new holding company of London Stock Exchange plc, London Stock Exchange Group plc will follow the same commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance as has been followed by the London Stock Exchange plc.
Each member of the Board of London Stock Exchange plc has been appointed to the Board of London Stock Exchange Group plc and members of the Board will continue in the same roles and positions.
Statements below in relation to the ongoing measures for corporate governance will apply to the Board of London Stock Exchange Group from the date the scheme became effective, on15 May 2006.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have not been comprised of fully independent directors in that the senior director Gary Allen and Peter Meinertzhagen, who sit on the Audit and Remuneration Committee respectively, are not determined to be independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
Gary Allen was appointed Senior Director in 2004 and is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for Gary Allen to continue to act as Senior Director and to chair the Audit Committee.
In particular Gary has wide domestic and international business experience and additionally a long-term perspective on the Exchanges business.
Given his length of service, Gary Allen will stand for re-election on an annual basis as required by the Combined Code.
The Board considers that it continues to be appropriate for Peter Meinertzhagen to sit on the Remuneration Committee given his knowledge and experience of the specialist nature of the market in which the Company operates.
This is considered to be helpful to the Committee in developing its remuneration strategy for the London Stock Exchange and to the Board as a whole.
Given his length of service, Peter Meinertzhagen will also stand for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board had previously commenced a process to recruit additional non-executive directors.
However, the process ceased when the Company entered an Offer Period in December 2004.
The Board currently considers that the size of Board and mix of skills is appropriate for the Company but will keep this under review.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is responsible to shareholders for achieving the Exchanges strategic objectives and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
There is a written list of matters which may be approved only by the Board including: the Exchanges corporate strategy: the annual budget: policies in relation to risk management, health and safety and environmental matters: increases or variations to borrowing facilities: committing to major capital expenditure or acquisitions: and dividend policy.
The Board also views the Exchanges brand and reputation as a Recognised Investment Exchange as important assets of the Company and protection of brand and reputation are key parts of the Boards role.
26 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 MEETINGS Board 1 Total number of Meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Number of Meetings attended in the year ended 31 March 2006 20 6 3 0 13 Dr Chris Gibson-Smith 20 11 Mrs Clara Furse 20 13 Mr Jonathan Howell 20 12 Mr Gary Allen 17 6 8 Baroness Janet Cohen 17 6 2 Mr Oscar Fanjul 16 6 Mr Peter Meinertzhagen 19 3 12 Mr Nigel Stapleton 17 3 3 10 Mr Robert Webb 14 3 1 Established when the Company entered an Offer Period At each of its meetings the Board receives a full written report from questionnaire and included consideration of the composition of the the Chief Executive on financial performance and key activities in Board, appropriateness of Board agendas and the balance of Board each of the divisions.
The executive management team present to time spent on consideration of strategic matters.
The results were the Board on their business responsibilities on a regular basis and then discussed by the Board with actions agreed.
The Senior also present at the Boards periodic strategy sessions.
Director has met separately with non-executive directors without the Chairman present to discuss the Chairmans performance.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman BOARD COMMITTEES leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring its effectiveness.
OFFER PERIOD BOARD COMMITTEE The Chief Executive has delegated authority from, and is The Company has a Board Committee to consider all matters responsible to, the Board for managing the Companys business.
relating to potential offers for the Company on behalf of the Board.
The Committee was appointed in December 2004.
The Committee The Board has six scheduled meetings in addition to two offsite comprises Chris Gibson-Smith, Clara Furse, Jonathan Howell, strategy meetings a year.
In the year ended 31 March 2006 the Gary Allen, Nigel Stapleton and Peter Meinertzhagen.
It has met Board held 20 meetings.
The Chairman meets non-executive 13 times between 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006. directors without the presence of executive directors on a number of occasions throughout the year.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee members as at 31 March 2006 were: Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from Nigel Stapleton Chairman, Janet Cohen, Peter Meinertzhagen the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their and Robert Webb.
The Committee normally invites the Chief office and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
Executive, Head of Human Resources and Director of Finance to In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be attend part of the meeting and the Chairman to attend throughout.
indemnified, the Company purchased and obtained a directors The Committee has written terms of reference and meets at least and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2005.
This twice a year to review and present recommendations to the Board insurance cover was renewed at the beginning of 2006.
Neither the regarding remuneration and conditions of service of the Chairman, Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event Chief Executive and executive directors, including the grant of that the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
entitlements under the Companys share schemes.
A separate Remuneration report is set out on pages 29 to 35.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE The Board comprises nine directors, the Chairman who was AUDIT COMMITTEE independent on appointment, two executive directors and six The Committee members as at 31 March 2006 were: Gary Allen non-executive directors.
The Board considers that the Board Chairman, Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul and Nigel Stapleton.
There is of the appropriate size and with the right mix of skills and have been no changes in the membership of the Committee during experience given the size of the Company.
The Board considers the financial year.
As explained above, with the exception of Gary Allen, all non-executive directors to be independent in character and all members of the Committee are considered to be independent there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to non-executive directors as defined by the Combined Code.
The affect their character or independent judgement.
However the Board is satisfied that various members of the Committee have Board believes that neither Gary Allen nor Peter Meinertzhagen recent and relevant financial experience.
can be determined to be independent under the revised Combined Code.
In the case of Gary Allen this is because of his length of ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE service on the Board, having been appointed in 1994 and, in the The Committee has written terms of reference, which are available case of Peter Meinertzhagen, because he is engaged by one of from the Company Secretary or on the corporate website at the Companys major customers, ABN Amro.
Directors serving on the Boards committees together with MEETINGS biographical details are identified on the Board of Directors The Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda pages 24 and 25. linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman, Director of Finance, Head of PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Finance, Head of Internal Audit and senior representatives from The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its the external auditors to attend its meetings.
Other senior managers Committees was undertaken in the year ended 31 March 2006 are invited to present such reports as are required by the Committee.
and was conducted by the Company Secretary using a detailed The Committee meets privately with the  27 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED partner on an annual basis.
It has the opportunity at each meeting The principal features of the Companys control framework are to review any issues with the external auditors and with the Head described under the following headings: of Internal Audit without any other members of executive Delegation of authority matters reserved for Board approval management being present.
Executive directors have general responsibility for making and implementing operational decisions MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE and for overseeing the Companys business.
All directors have IN THE YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2006 access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the following: In addition all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain annual report and interim results: independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
reports from the Companys internal audit department on the Planning and reporting the Board approves strategic decisions effectiveness of the Companys risk management procedures, and the budget for the forthcoming year and receives a report on details of key audit findings and actions taken by management: key business matters from the Chief Executive at each meeting.
Monthly reports to management contain key performance effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control: indicators and compare actual financial performance with the annual budget or forecast.
Management action is taken where variances internal audit plan: arise and revised forecasts are prepared on a regular basis.
performance of the Companys internal audit department: Audit Committee the Companys internal audit department reports to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key risk reports from external auditors on their audit, proposed audit management and internal control procedures and appropriate scope, fees and auditor independence: action is taken where necessary.
The Audit Committee also arrangements for the companys capital return: receives reports from the Companys external auditors.
the Companys insurance programme: Risk management effective risk management is the responsibility of all line managers and each business area updates and evaluates the Companys whistleblowing procedures: its documented key risks and controls as necessary.
Periodic reports confirming the effectiveness of all significant control policies the Companys information security procedures: and and procedures are produced by management and reviewed by management of companys taxation arrangements.
the most senior executive in each business area.
The Companys internal audit department reviews these reports and independently INDEPENDENCE OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS summarises any significant matters arising for the Audit Committee.
The Committee has adopted a policy on non-audit services designed to ensure that the provision of such services by the Detailed procedures procedures and controls for key external auditor does not impair the auditors objectivity and business areas including the Companys finance function are independence.
The policy, based upon APB Ethical Standard 5, set out in detailed departmental manuals.
These are reviewed Non-Audit Services Provided to Audit Clients and ICAEW and kept up-to-date to meet changing business needs.
Guidance for Audit Committees, defines both the type and value of services that require prior authorisation of the Committee and RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the services that the external auditor is prohibited from providing.
The Company, including the Chairman, conducts regular dialogue The Committee annually reviews all non-audit services provided with a large number of institutional investors.
Despite restrictions by the external auditor to ensure compliance with the policy.
on normal investor contact imposed on the Company by virtue The Committee remains satisfied with the objectivity and of it being in an Offer Period, senior management held over independence of the Companys external auditors.
100 meetings in the UK and on overseas visits.
Communication with shareholders also takes place by way of annual and interim NOMINATION COMMITTEE reports, quarterly trading updates and through the presentation The Nomination Committee members as at 31 March 2006 were: of preliminary and interim results, which are made accessible to all Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul, Nigel investors by webcasts available on the Investor Relations section Stapleton and Robert Webb.
The Committee normally invites the of our website at www.
The Committee meets as necessary to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments During the year the Board received a report from the Executive and to consider executive and Board succession planning.
The at each of its scheduled meetings, including an analysis of share Committee has written terms of reference which are available price movements, market expectations of financial performance, from the Company Secretary or on the corporate website at share register composition, feedback from key institutional www.
shareholders and views from brokers on major issues.
Feedback from institutional shareholders was also regularly reported to the INTERNAL CONTROL Board Committee established to consider all matters relating to The Board confirms that procedures have been in place throughout potential offers for the Company on behalf of the Board.
the year and up to the date of this report which comply fully with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the The Annual General Meeting AGM which, as a result of the Combined Code published by the Internal Control Working Party Scheme of Arrangement will going forward be an AGM of London of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in Stock Exchange Group plc, provides the opportunity for private September 1999. shareholders to question the Board and meet directors informally after the event.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and The Companys systems of internal control over business, Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The operational, financial and compliance risks are designed to help the procedures for the AGM are compliant with the Combined Code Company meet its business objectives by appropriately managing, and the event is normally attended by all directors.
A shareholder rather than eliminating, the risks to those objectives.
The controls helpline is provided throughout the year.
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has ultimate responsibility HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT for the systems of internal control and, through the Audit Committee, The Companys approach to health, safety and the environment has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems.
The Board is is set out in our Corporate & Social Responsibility statement on committed to their continual enhancement.
28 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006
