INVESTOR RELATIONS SHAREHOLDER SERVICES LLOYDS TSB REGISTRARS SHAREVIEW SERVICE Shareview is a free service provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
It may be accessed through the internet at www.
By creating a Shareview portfolio, you will gain online access to information about your Exchange shares and other investments including: direct access to information held for you on the share register including share movements: a daily valuation of all investments held in your portfolio: and a range of information and practical help for shareholders.
To register at Shareview you will need your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certificate and you will be asked to select your own personal identification number.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
If you have any problems in registering your portfolio for the Shareview services, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3989.
EXCHANGES SHARE PRICE SERVICE To obtain share price information for Exchange Group and for the Exchange prior to the Scheme of Arrangement becoming effective on 15 May 2006, please see our website at: www.
com lse services sharetools This link will provide you with Exchange Groups share price, historical closing prices and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
ALERTING SERVICE To receive email alerts when financial reports, news releases and webcasts are posted on our Investor Relations website, register on: www.
com lse tools alertingservice SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS notified of 3 per cent holding or more As at 25 May 2006 London Stock Exchange Group plc had been notified of the following interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985: Nightingale Acquisition Limited a wholly-owned subsidiary of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. 25.1% Credit Suisse Group 8.83% Deutsche Bank AG 5.36% Legal & General Group plc 3.29% Barclays plc 3.19% Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 3.07% 67 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006
