11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 80 80 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Board of Directors Michael Jackson 57 number of other quoted Non-Executive Chairman and unquoted companies.
Michael Jackson became Until he stepped down on Chairman of PartyGaming in 1 August 2006, Michael was May 2005.
He is also Chairman the Chairman of the FTSE 100 of the venture capital and software group, The Sage investment company, Group plc, which, during his Elderstreet Investments time as a director, grew from Limited, which he founded a capitalisation of 1 million prior to its acquisition by in 1983 to over 3 billion.
Dresdner Kleinwort Capital in Michael holds an MA 2000 and subsequent sale in law from Cambridge back to management in University and qualified as 2003.
In addition, Michael is a Chartered Accountant a director and investor in a with Coopers & Lybrand.
Mitch Garber 42 the Nasdaq-listed payments Chief Executive Officer processing and services Mitch Garber joined company and owner of 76% PartyGaming as Chief of FireOne and President and Executive Officer on 19 April CEO of Optimal Payments 2006.
Before joining the Inc. the largest subsidiary of Group, Mitch was Executive Optimal Group.
Mitch was Chairman of FireOne Group also President and CEO of Plc, a leading provider of Terra Payments Inc. which payment processing services was listed on the Toronto to the online gaming industry.
Stock Exchange, before FireOne was partly demerged merging with Optimal Group from Optimal Group Inc. in April 2004.
A graduate of and floated on AIM in June McGill University in Montreal 2005.
He was simultaneously and of the University of Executive Vice President of Ottawa, Mitch is a qualified Optimal Group Inc. attorney.
Martin Weigold 41 Disney Channels in France, Group Finance Director Spain, Italy and Germany.
Martin Weigold joined the Prior to this he was an assistant Group on 4 January 2005. director of Guinness Mahon Prior to joining, Martin was the Development Capital for six Chief Financial Officer of Jetix years following a three year Europe NV, formerly Fox Kids period as a management Europe NV, for five years from consultant with Arthur its flotation on Euronext in Andersen.
Before holding this in economics and accounting position, he was the Vice from Bristol University and is President of Finance of Walt a member of the Institute of Disney Television International Chartered Accountants of for four years and was actively England and Wales.
involved in the launch of
