11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 87 87 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Corporate governance With the exception of the relevant provisions in the Throughout the year to 31 December 2006, the Company Companies Act 1930, Gibraltar does not have a system has complied fully with the Codes principles except as of corporate governance.
The Company, however, applies detailed below, in respect of the Chairmans second FTSE the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate 100 chairmanship, the Chairmans initial fixed term of Governance annexed to the Listing Rules the Code.
service, the independence of the Board, the performancerelated elements of Executive Director remuneration and executive share options being offered at a discount.
The Board In accordance with the Code, the Company is headed by an effective Board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company whilst ensuring that a framework of prudent and effective controls exists in order to effectively assess and manage risk.
Date of Date of last Date of Director Age Position Committees appointment re-appointment resignation Michael 57 Non-Executive Chairman of the Nominations 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Jackson Chairman Committee and member of the Ethics Committee appointed 31 May 2005 and Remuneration Committee appointed 23 February 2007 Mitch 42 Chief Executive Member of the Nominations 19 April 2006 Garber Officer Committee appointed 4 May 2006 Martin 41 Group Finance 4 April 2005 4 May 2006 Weigold Director Lars Berg 59 Independent A member of the Audit, 31 May 2005 4 May 2006 Non-Executive Nominationsand Director Ethics Committees appointed 31 May 2005.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee since 31 December 2006 Rod Perry 61 Senior Chairman of the Ethics 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Independent Committee and member Non-Executive of the Remuneration and Director Nominations Committees appointed 31 May 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Committee since 31 December 2006 Vikrant 34 Group Marketing 4 April 2005 24 June 2005 31 December Bhargava Director 2006 Nigel Kenny 58 Independent NonUntil 31 December 2006 31 May 2005 4 May 2006 31 December Executive Director Chairman of the Audit 2006 Committee and member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees appointed 31 May 2005 11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 88 88 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Corporate governance Date of Date of last Date of Director Age Position Committees appointment re-appointment resignation Brian Larcombe 53 Deputy Chairman Until 31 December 2006 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 31 December and Senior Chairman of the Remuneration 2006 Independent Committee and member of NonExecutive the Audit and Nominations Director Committees appointed 31 May 2005 Anurag Dikshit 34 Group Operations 4 April 2005 24 June 2005 23 May 2006 Director Richard Segal 42 Chief Executive Member of the Nominations 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 19 April 2006 Officer Committee appointed 31 May 2005 until 19 April 2006 Janos Libor 41 Non-Executive Until 22 December 2006 19 October 4 May 2006 22 December Director a member of the Ethics 2005 2006 and Nominations Committee appointed 5 December 2005 Age on date of resignation Set out in the Board of Directors section are biographies for each of the current Directors.
The Board meets regularly in Gibraltar, at least eight times a year and minutes of these meetings are recorded.
Set out below are details of the Directors attendance record.
Total number of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2006 and the number of meetings attended of the maximum number that each Director was entitled to attend Audit Ethics Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 85326 Michael Jackson 7 8 n a 2 3 1 2 n a 1 Mitch Garber 5 5 n a n a 1 1 n a Martin Weigold 8 8 n a n a n a n a Lars Berg 7 8 4 5 2 3 1 2 n a Rod Perry 8 8 n a 3 3 2 2 6 6 Vikrant Bhargava 8 8 n a n a n a n a Nigel Kenny 8 8 5 5 n a 2 2 6 6 Brian Larcombe 8 8 5 5 n a 2 2 6 6 2 Anurag Dikshit 4 4 n a n a n a n a 3 Richard Segal 3 3 n a n a 1 1 n a Janos Libor 8 8 n a 3 3 2 2 n a 1 Mitch Garber was appointed as a Director of the Company on 19 April 2006.
2 Anurag Dikshit resigned as a Director of the Company on 23 May 2006.
3 Richard Segal resigned as a Director of the Company on 19 April 2006 but remained an employee until 4 May 2006.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 89 89 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters Following Brian Larcombes departure from the Board reserved to the Board, setting out which issues must be on 31 December 2006, Rod Perry has been appointed referred to the Board for decision.
Examples of topics the Senior Independent Director and is available to covered by the schedule are long-term strategy, budgets Shareholders if they have concerns which contact through and forecasts, the convening of Shareholder meetings, the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer capital expenditure over certain limits, restructuring of the or Group Finance Director has not resolved or for which Group, changes of share capital, approval of new loan contact is inappropriate.
facilities, dividend policy, acquisitions and disposals.
Appointments to the Board The Chairman has also met with the Non-Executive Directors The Board has adopted a formal, rigorous and transparent without the Executive Directors present during the year procedure for the appointment of new Directors to ended 31 December 2006.
Led by the Senior Independent the Board.
The Board has appointed a Nominations Director, the Non-Executive Directors met in 2006 without Committee to lead the process of appointment and make the Chairman present to review the latters performance.
During the reporting year The Company has Directors and officers liability insurance Michael Jackson chaired the Nominations Committee and prospectus indemnity cover in place.
and Brian Larcombe, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny, Janos Libor and Rod Perry were members.
Richard Segal was also a The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer member of the Nominations Committee until 19 April 2006, In accordance with the Code, the roles of Chairman and when he stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer are not exercised by the same was replaced by Mitch Garber.
The membership of the individual.
The different responsibilities of both roles have been Nominations Committee was changed further as a result clearly set out by the Board in a schedule of responsibilities of of the departures from the Board of Janos Libor with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
effect from 22 December 2006 and Brian Larcombe and Nigel Kenny with effect from 31 December The Code requires that no individual should be appointed 2006.
The current members of the Nominations Committee to a second chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
are Michael Jackson, Lars Berg, Rod Perry and Mitch Michael Jackson was chairman of The Sage Group plc, a Garber.
The Nominations Committee has adopted FTSE 100 company, until he stepped down from this position terms of reference approved by the Board and with effect from 1 August 2006.
During the seven months to these are available on the Companys website 1 August 2006 the Board was satisfied that Michael Jackson www.
was able to devote sufficient time to his duties as Chairman of PartyGaming Plc.
An external search consultancy was engaged by the Nominations Committee and given a description of the Board independence role and capabilities required for suitable candidates to The Code recommends that at least half the members of fulfil the role of Chief Executive Officer following Richard a board excluding the Chairman should be non-executive Segals decision to leave the Company.
The Nominations directors who are independent in character and judgement Committee reviewed the candidates put forward by the and free from relationships or circumstances which are search consultancy before making a shortlist of candidates likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
for members of the Nominations Committee to interview.
Until 23 May 2006 the Company had four independent Following the interview stage, the Nominations Committee Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman made recommendations to the Board as to which Brian Larcombe, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny and Rod Perry, candidates were best suited to the selection criteria.
one non-independent Non-Executive Director Janos Libor As a result of this process, on 22 March 2006 the Board and four Executive Directors Mitch Garber and prior to resolved to appoint Mitch Garber as the new Chief his appointment on 19 April 2006, Richard Segal, Martin Executive Officer with effect from 19 April 2006.
Weigold, Vikrant Bhargava and Anurag Dikshit and The Board currently has only two independent Non-Executive therefore the Company did not comply with the Code.
Directors excluding the Chairman and therefore it is On 23 May 2006 Anurag Dikshit stepped down as a Director looking to recruit a further independent Director.
An external restoring a balance of four independent Directors and search consultancy has not been engaged by the four non-independent Directors.
Following the resignations Nominations Committee to assist with this process, because of Janos Libor on 22 December 2006 and Brian Larcombe, the Nominations Committee has already identified potential Vikrant Bhargava and Nigel Kenny on 31 December 2006 candidates.
An announcement about any appointment of there is a balance of two non-independent Directors and a new independent Director will be made if a candidate is two independent Directors excluding the Chairman found and accepts an offer to join the Board.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 90 90 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Corporate governance The Code recommends that notice or contract periods for Performance evaluation Directors should be set at one year or less.
Michael Jackson The Directors have undertaken a formal evaluation of has an appointment letter governing the terms of his their performance in the year to 31 December 2006. appointment as Chairman from Admission under which The evaluation has focused on the effectiveness of he is appointed for an initial term until 21 March 2008. the Chairman, individual Directors, the Board and its The appointment may be terminated by PartyGaming Committees.
The evaluation was conducted using a giving 12 months notice to Michael Jackson to expire at detailed questionnaire utilising the suggestions made any time on or after 21 March 2008.
The Board is satisfied on good practice in The Higgs Report.
The results of that the length of Michael Jacksons initial fixed term the evaluation have been reviewed by the Board.
was necessary to secure his services as Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman has been reviewed Notice periods for the other Directors comply with the Code.
by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, without the Chairman being present.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors and the contracts of employment for the Executive Re-appointments Directors will be available for inspection 15 minutes prior In accordance with the Code, the Companys Articles state to and during the AGM.
that each Director must retire and stand for re-appointment at the first AGM following their appointment.
Mitch Garber, Board information and professional development who was appointed a Director on 19 April 2006, in The Chairman oversees, with the assistance of the accordance with the Articles, retired as a Director at the Company Secretary, the process of ensuring that all conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting Directors receive timely and accurate information held on 4 May 2006 and was re-appointed a Director at a in order to enable them to perform their duties.
Board meeting immediately following that Annual General Management provides detailed information ahead of Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles, Mitch Garber each Board or Committee meeting and additional will retire and seek re-appointment as a Director at the information or updates between meetings, when deemed 2007 AGM.
Each Executive Director is readily available to the Non-Executive Directors if the latter should need The Articles also dictate that at every AGM one-third of clarification or amplification on any information provided.
the Directors or, if their number is not three or a multiple All the Directors have access to the advice and services of of three, the number nearest to one-third shall retire the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for from office: but if any Director has at the start of the ensuring Board procedures are complied with and advising AGM been in office for three years or more since his last the Board through the Chairman on all governance re-appointment, he shall retire at that AGM.
The Board has also adopted a procedure for a exception of Mitch Garber, each of the Directors has stood Director to seek independent professional advice at the for re-election at least once within the last two years.
expense of the Company where they judge it necessary to Consequently, the Directors have agreed that Rod Perry will discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Each Committee be retiring at the AGM and will be seeking re-appointment.
of the Board also has authority under its terms of reference The Nominations Committee has reviewed these to obtain outside legal or other independent professional re-appointments and on the basis of experience, advice if the Committee considers it necessary in order to performance and commitment demonstrated, has perform its duties.
recommended to the Board that they be re-appointed.
Each new Director receives a full induction on joining the The Board has considered and agrees with this Board and major shareholders are offered the opportunity recommendation and is therefore recommending to to meet new Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures shareholders that they re-appoint Mitch Garber and that all Directors continually update their skills, knowledge Rod Perry as Directors at the AGM.
and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their roles on the Board and Board Committees via reports and information collated by management, the Company Secretary and the Companys advisers.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 91 91 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance The letters of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Risk management, internal controls Directors do not specify a fixed term of appointment.
and the Audit Committee The Board has resolved, however, that if any Non-Executive The Company maintains a sound system of internal control Director remains in office for a period of six years, having for the purpose of safeguarding Shareholders investment satisfied annual performance evaluations and been and the Companys assets.
At least annually the Board re-appointed by shareholders at an AGM at least twice, conducts a review of the effectiveness of the Groups then that Non-Executive Directors re-appointment will be system of internal controls, covering all material controls, subject to a rigorous review by the Nominations Committee including financial, operational and compliance controls and the Board, both bodies taking into account the need and risk management systems.
The Companys system of for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board does internal control reduces the probability of risks attaching not expect that any Non-Executive Director will serve for to the business impeding the Company from achieving a period greater than nine years.
its objectives, but it cannot eliminate these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance Remuneration and the Remuneration Committee against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee The Company has established an Internal Audit to deal with matters regarding the remuneration of the department, which also carries out the Companys risk Executive Directors and certain senior management.
During the year, management The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a have identified the risks attaching to the business and, on matter for the Executive Directors.
The terms of reference an ongoing basis, efforts are being taken to mitigate these for the Remuneration Committee are available on the risks.
Throughout the year the Company has engaged the Companys website www.
com investor services of  LLP PWC to perform remuneration terms.
During the year ended internal audits of offices and departments within the 31 December 2006 Brian Larcombe chaired the business to assess whether adequate internal controls Remuneration Committee and the other members were are in place to protect the Company, its employees and Nigel Kenny and Rod Perry.
All three members were Shareholders.
PWCs internal audit reports are presented to independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following the the Audit Committee and the Head of Internal Audit meets departures from the Board of Brian Larcombe and Nigel regularly with the Audit Committee Chairman, with whom Kenny with effect from 31 December 2006, Lars Berg he has direct access, and the Audit Committee.
has been appointed to and made Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In accordance with the terms of The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, the revised Code which allows an independent Chairman has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the of the Board to sit on the Remuneration Committee and internal system of control in accordance with the guidance takes effect in respect of reporting periods beginning on contained in the Turnbull Report for the reporting period and or after 1 November 2006, Michael Jackson has also been is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal The Remuneration Report prepared by the Remuneration and transparent arrangements for considering how it Committee is set out in this Annual Report and discloses the should apply the financial reporting and internal control remuneration policy of the Company and the remuneration principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship of the Directors.
The Remuneration Report sets out why with the Companys joint auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP the Company does not comply fully with the Codes and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited.
requirement that performance-related elements of The Board has done this by appointing an Audit remuneration should form a significant proportion of the Committee, whose terms of reference, agreed by total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
the Board are available on the Companys website In addition, the Remuneration Report also explains www.
why the Company does not comply with the Codes recommendation that executive options are not offered at a discount.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 92 92 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Corporate governance In accordance with its duties the Audit Committee made During the year to 31 December 2006, the Audit Committee recommendations to the Board on the appointment, for met five times.
In doing so it monitored the integrity of the approval by Shareholders, of the external auditors and Companys preliminary full year results announcement and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2005, The Audit Committee also established a policy on the the 2006 half year financial statement and the pre-close appointment of the auditors to perform non-audit services trading statement.
In 2007 the Audit Committee has met for the Group over and above the external audit and keeps once to review and recommend the approval of the this matter under ongoing review.
It remains confident that preliminary full year results announcement and the annual the objectivity and independence of the external auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
At the Audit are not impaired as a result of this further work.
Committees meetings the members met with management and with the internal and external auditors to review During the year to 31 December 2006, the Audit Committee the effectiveness of internal controls and business risk was chaired by Nigel Kenny and the other members were management.
Through these meetings and review process Lars Berg and Brian Larcombe.
All three members were the Audit Committee has satisfied itself that proper and independent Non-Executive Directors and Nigel Kenny had satisfactory internal control systems remain in place to recent and relevant financial experience.
Following the identify and contain business risks and that the integrity of departures from the Board of Nigel Kenny and Brian the Companys financial reporting is sound.
Larcombe with effect from 31 December 2006, Rod Perry has been appointed a member and Chairman of the Audit The Company has adopted a formal whistleblowing Committee.
Rod Perry has recent and relevant financial procedure by which employees can, in confidence, experience.
The Code recommends that a minimum of raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of three independent Directors excluding the Chairman of financial reporting or other matters.
These are set out in the Board should serve on the Audit Committee.
At this the PartyGaming Employee Handbook and have been time the Company does not have three independent reviewed by both the Audit and Ethics Committees.
Directors excluding the Chairman of the Board and Both Committees are satisfied that arrangements are in therefore cannot comply with this recommendation for the place for the proportionate and independent investigation time being.
As disclosed earlier in this report, the Board is of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
currently looking at recruiting a further independent Director and it is envisaged that if such an appointment is made Financial reporting and going concern the new independent Director will be appointed to the The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and Audit Committee.
understandable assessment of the Company and in performing this duty has sought to set out clearly in the The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any matter Annual Report the Companys performance in 2006 and its pertaining to the Companys management of risk and future prospects.
In addition, the Board is obliged to report internal controls, the integrity of the financial reporting and on whether the business is a going concern, a statement engagement of the external auditor and in doing so may concerning which is set out in the Directors Report.
seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company and all employees are expected to co-operate.
The Audit Committee has authority from the Board, at the Companys expense, to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 93 93 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Ethics Committee and corporate The AGM and social responsibility The AGM provides a valuable opportunity for Shareholders, Reflecting the importance the Company places on particularly private individuals, to meet the Board.
corporate and social responsibility CSR, the Board has Shareholders are reminded that PartyGaming Plc is a appointed an Ethics Committee, despite there being company incorporated, managed and controlled in no requirement to do so under the Code.
Rod Perry is Gibraltar and therefore general meetings will be held in Chairman of the Committee and Lars Berg and Michael Gibraltar.
The Board is looking forward to welcoming as Jackson are the other members Janos Libor was also a many Shareholders as possible at the AGM on Thursday member until his departure from the Board on 22 December 10 May 2007.
The purpose of the Ethics Committee is to oversee all the Directors will be present at the 2007 AGM and the the CSR framework adopted by the Group, monitoring that Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and adequate policies are in place to deal with stakeholder Ethics Committees will be available to answer questions risks, just as the Audit Committee reviews whether the relating to their Committees.
Company has satisfactory internal controls in place The Notice of AGM is included later in this document and to address the financial risks faced by the business.
has been dispatched more than 20 working days before In particular, the Ethics Committee focuses on the the AGM.
Each item of business is proposed in a separate Companys approach to responsible gaming, the resolution at the AGM and the vote will be undertaken by fairness of the gaming platforms and rules, charitable poll rather than simply by a show of hands in accordance donations and investment in the local community.
Following the AGM the voting results will In addition, the Committee is responsible for overseeing the be announced via a regulatory news service to the London Companys CSR practices and for establishing a regular Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website.
process for reporting on and developing such practices.
More information on how to vote at and attend the AGM The Group Finance Director has executive responsibility is contained in the Shareholder Information section.
The Ethics Committee met three times during the year ended 31 December 2006.
Relations with Shareholders The Board recognises the need for a productive dialogue with Shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
As over 50% of the shares in issue are still owned by three of the founding Shareholders, all of whom have had representation on the Board at certain times during 2006, the process of the Directors engaging with and being aware of the views of these Shareholders has and continues to be straightforward.
In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director assisted by the Investor Relations Director, meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted via the Companys registered office in the event that any shareholder wishes to raise an issue which it would be inappropriate to raise with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 94 From US Dollars... 11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 95... to Pounds Sterling, to Euros, to... Multi-currency functionality Playing games at PartyGaming is not all about dollars and cents.
In 2007 we will enable our customers to manage their accounts and play games in either US dollars, Pounds Sterling or Euros with more to come.
