Board and governance Corporate governance report Cable and Wireless plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and responsibilities.
The Board has determined not to identify is therefore required to comply with the listing rules of the United any single member as having such experience.
Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, a division of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The FSA requires UK listed companies D1.1 The Code provides that Non-executive Directors should be to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions set offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major out in section 1 of the UKLAs Combined Code on Corporate shareholders and should expect to attend them if requested Governance Combined Code and, where the provisions have not by major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Companies are also should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major required to explain how they have applied the principles set out in shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop the Combined Code.
Until 13 December 2005, the Company also a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of maintained a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange major shareholders.
and was therefore required to comply with many of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as the New York Stock During the year under review, the majority of the Companys Exchanges corporate governance rules.
Non-executive Directors have not attended formal meetings with major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee The Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing the Chairman communicated with the Companys 20 largest financial statements is set out on page 66. shareholders during the early part of the financial year in order to discuss proposed changes to the Companys Compliance with the Combined Code remuneration policy which were passed at the 2005 AGM The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate in July.
In addition, the Companys Chairman held meetings governance.
The Corporate Governance statement contained with a number of the Companys major shareholders to herein, together with the Directors remuneration report set out on discuss and explain the new Group structure following the pages 55 to 65, confirms that the Company was compliant with all announcement on 31 January 2006. the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 and to the date of this report except Composition of the Board as follows: During the year under review the Board comprised the Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, seven Executive Directors and seven A6 The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual Non-executive Directors.
Francesco Caio was the Companys evaluation of its own performance and that of its Chief Executive Officer during the financial year, however, following committees and individual directors.
the Companys restructuring announcement on 31 January 2006, Francesco stepped down from this position on 1 April 2006 and the No formal review of the Board as a whole or its Chief Financial Officer, Charles Herlinger, will retire on 31 May 2006.
Committees took place during the year, although a review Under the new structure, from 1 April 2006, the Group operates as of the performance of Executive Directors, including the two separate businesses: International led by Harris Jones and UK Chief Executive Officer, and senior management team was led by John Pluthero.
Tony Rice, who became Group Managing undertaken in May 2005.
Director, Central and Finance Director on 30 March 2006, has responsibility for the Groups central functions.
Harris, John and In addition, the Non-executive Directors of the Company Tony became Group Managing Directors in place of a Group Chief met privately three times: once on their own: once with the Executive Officer and they report directly to the Chairman.
In Chairman and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen in attendance: addition, a number of changes to the Non-executive Directors were and once with the Chairman, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen announced which will leave the Board comprising the Chairman, and the Chief Executive Officer present, to consider the four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors after performance of the Chairman and Executive management.
The Chairman also held individual meetings with each of the Non-executive Directors at least once during the year.
Graham Howe was appointed as the Companys Senior Independent Director in May 2003.
Graham has indicated that he During the financial year 2006 07, it is proposed that a will retire from the Board in June 2006 and he will be succeeded as formal Board evaluation will take place under the guidance Senior Independent Director by Clive Butler.
Clive is available to of the new Senior Independent Director, Clive Butler.
shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Executive Directors has failed to resolve or C3.1 The Code provides that the board should satisfy itself that at for which such contact is inappropriate.
least one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years with the expectation that a further three year term will follow, The Board considers that there is a sufficient breadth of subject to review by the Board.
The initial three year term for financial expertise across the Committee and considers that, Kasper Rorsted ended on 24 May 2006 and a further three year collectively, the members have the requisite skills and term has been agreed with him which will continue until May 2009, attributes to enable the Committee to properly discharge its subject to any necessary re-appointment in general meeting.
48 2005 06 Annual report The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors who Board meetings and attendance served during the year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date of The Board held ten scheduled meetings during the year this report are independent.
Each of the Non-executive Directors concentrating on strategy and financial and business performance.
is of independent mind and character and actively contributes to Additional Board meetings may be called as required to deal with the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
During the year under review there were two This combination of skills and expertise materially enhances the additional Board meetings.
judgement and overall performance of the Board.
The Board requires all members to use their best endeavours to Full biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 42 attend Board and Committee meetings and to devote sufficient to 43. time to the work of the Board to discharge their duties.
A table setting out the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year including those Directors appointed during the year is given below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Richard Lapthorne 10 1011 Francesco Caio 10 1011 George Battersby 10 10 Clive Butler 994444 Bernard Gray 10 10455511 Charles Herlinger 10 10 Graham Howe 10 10555511 Harris Jones 10 10 Kate Nealon 10 105555 John Pluthero 34 Tony Rice 10 10551111 Lord Robertson 10 10 Kasper Rorsted 9 1055 Rob Rowley 10 10 Agns Touraine 10 1055 Responsibility for management of the central Group functions was Matters reserved for the Board delegated to Tony Rice.
Separate operating boards in the The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for International and UK businesses provide support for Harris and John.
A copy of the schedule is available on request from the Company Secretary and is published on the Companys website.
Additionally, specific responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Matters reserved for the Board include: The Board believes that good corporate governance and strong strategy and management: governance controls improve the performance of the business and structure and capital: enhance shareholder value.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, financial reporting and controls: the Board has: internal controls: customer contracts and expenditure over a certain financial limit: ensured compliance with legal, regulatory and corporate Board membership and other senior management appointments: governance requirements: Director and senior executive remuneration: promoted and maintained good corporate citizenship and high delegation of authority: and standards of ethical behaviour by the Groups employees: corporate governance.
provided the Chief Executive Officer with appropriate support to drive the performance of the Group: During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Board delegated the set and monitored challenging performance objectives and responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company to benchmarks for the Chief Executive Officer and the executive team: the Chief Executive Officer, Francesco Caio.
The Chief Executive set an appropriate control environment within which executive Officer was supported in this by the Executive Committee, which management can operate: he chaired.
From 1 April 2006, responsibility for the day-to-day reviewed sub-committees of the Board covering remuneration, management of the two businesses was delegated to Harris Jones nominations and audit matters: and International business and John Pluthero UK business.
considered the appointment of a new Company Secretary.
2005 06 Annual report 49 Board and governance Board and governance Corporate governance report In addition, the Board holds a strategy meeting once a year at which The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year it considers the direction of the Group.
Two additional meetings were also held.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is shown in the table on page 49.
Information and training The Board and the various committees, standing and non-standing, A full report of the Audit Committee is given on page 53 and 54. are provided with full and timely information prior to meetings, including detailed financial information.
All Directors have access to Remuneration Committee the advice of the Company Secretary and, in addition, the Board has The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the adopted a procedure whereby all Directors may, in the furtherance Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration and of their duties, take independent professional advice on any matter long-term incentive arrangements of the Companys Chairman, at the Companys expense.
Executive Directors and senior executive management.
The Committees full terms of reference are available from the Company The Chairman, in consultation with the Executive Directors and Secretary and are published on the Companys website.
Company Secretary, sets agendas for Board meetings.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee meetings The Committee membership consists entirely of independent Nonare prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
During the year under review the Committee Director objects to a particular proposal this will be recorded in the was chaired by Bernard Gray.
The other members were Clive minutes of the Board or Committee meetings.
During the year Butler from 1 May 2005, Graham Howe, Kate Nealon and Tony ended 31 March 2006, as for the previous year, there were no Rice to 1 May 2005.
On 1 April 2006, membership of the such objections.
committee was extended to include all Non-executive Directors with Simon Ball included on his appointment to the Board on Responsibility for ensuring that an appropriate induction is given to 1 May 2006. new Board members lies with the Chairman.
The induction involves meetings with other Directors, senior management and key The Group Chairman, Executive Directors and Group Human advisors.
In addition, new Directors are provided with appropriate Resources Director may be invited to attend meetings of the background materials covering the business, the financial Committee, but do not participate in any matter which impacts performance of the Company and the legal and corporate upon their own remuneration arrangements.
Directors further receive appropriate the Companys remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street ongoing training, briefings and information to enable them to Consultants, attend meetings by invitation.
perform their roles both on the Board and its principal Committees.
On request, the Company will arrange for its major shareholders to Five meetings are scheduled during the year although additional meet new Non-executive Directors.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, a total of nine meetings were held.
Audit Committee The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in The Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 65 includes meeting its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of internal details on remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of control and compliance and accurate external financial reporting: the Directors.
and to assist management in conducting and reporting the effective risk management of the Companys and Groups activities.
Nominations Committee The purpose of the Committee is to review the composition of, The Audit Committee was chaired by Tony Rice from his and succession to, the Board and recommend to the Board appointment as a Non-executive Director until his appointment appointments of Executive and Non-executive Directors following as Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director on a formal and rigorous review process.
This involves an ongoing 30 March 2006.
From this date Kasper Rorsted became Chairman assessment of the overall balance and performance of the Board of the Committee.
All other independent Non-executive Directors and its individual members intended to ensure a strong executive are members of the Audit Committee.
Biographical details on each and independent non-executive team, taking account of existing and can be found on page 43. proposed corporate governance requirements and emerging best practice.
The Committee in particular considers the experience and In addition, during the year under review the Companys Chairman, skills of individuals who may be suitable as Directors.
Members of Richard Lapthorne, and all Executive Directors were invited to the Committee abstain when matters affecting their own attend but were not members.
The Group Director of Internal appointments are discussed.
Audit, Group General Counsel and representatives of the external auditors also attend meetings by invitation.
Other members of the The Committees full terms of reference are available from the management team attend as required.
Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, and during the year ended 31 March 2006, comprised the Group Chief Executive Officer, Francesco Caio, and three 50 2005 06 Annual report independent Non-executive Directors, being the chairmen The perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Senior and the Chief Executive Officer: Independent Director.
The degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and the Board: Following the re-structuring announced on 31 January 2006, The visibility of checks and balances within the Executive Francesco Caio resigned from the Committee on 31 March 2006 Directors team: and and will not be replaced.
Membership going forward will therefore Whether all questions asked by the independent Non-executive be limited to the Company Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, the Directors have been adequately addressed.
Senior Independent Director and the Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairmen.
Any of the Executive Directors may be General comments invited to attend future Committee meetings as appropriate.
Going into last year, the strategic direction was clear with a desire to reach critical scale in the core UK business, a move towards next The Committee met once during the year under review.
generation networks of which unbundling the local loop was a key part and the optimisation of the international portfolio.
The Board performance evaluation acquisition of Energis was envisaged but had not yet been executed: Under the direction and control of the Chairman, the Board Bulldog was a relatively new initiative with only limited unbundling considers its performance both as a group, as individual members having been carried out.
The tools for providing the future and its various sub-committees.
This involves regular discussions for the UK business had, therefore, been designed but execution between the individual Board members and use of external support risks remained: particularly in completing the assembly of the where necessary.
strategic tools and in taking a firmer management grip of operational performance.
During the year, as part of the evaluation process, the independent Non-executive Directors met privately without the Chairman, as a 2.
It was apparent at the beginning of the financial year that the UK group with the Chairman and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, and business needed to strengthen its team and the Chief Executive similarly with the Chairman, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and the Officer decided to take direct control of this business.
There Chief Executive Officer, to consider management performance and followed a significant period of uncertainty in the UK business as a succession issues.
The independent Non-executive Directors also result of a protracted negotiation process to acquire Energis appraised the Chairmans performance and reviewed the coupled with a further three month delay whilst the transaction relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to cleared regulatory hurdles.
This extended timetable gave rise to ensure that the relationship was working to promote the creation operational and management issues and combined with of shareholder value.
deteriorating trading conditions contributed to a market update in late October 2005.
In May 2005, the Chief Executive Officer provided the Non-executive Directors with a review of the performance 3.
It became increasingly clear that the leadership structure of the of the Executive Directors and his senior management team.
Company needed reshaping to take it into the next phase in its The Chairman also reviewed the performance of the Chief recovery.
In particular, it had become apparent that any Chief Executive Officer.
Executive Officer could become preoccupied with turning around the UK business running the risk of not maximising the potential In addition, the Chairman held individual meetings with each of the of the international portfolio.
Therefore at the end of January the Non-executive Directors at least once during the year.
Company announced operational separation of the UK and International businesses with a Group Managing Director in charge Notwithstanding the above, no formal review of the performance of of each reporting directly to the Chairman.
the Board as a whole and its committees took place.
At the same time, the Company updated market forecasts for It is proposed that during the financial year 2006 07 a formal Board the UK for 2006 07 when it became clear that the then projected evaluation will take place under the guidance of the new Senior underlying earnings combined with the impact of the new UK Independent Director, Clive Butler.
management teams desire to radically reshape the UK business were not yet reflected in the financial targets already pencilled in by Statement from the independent Non-executive the market.
Directors The independent Non-executive Directors met frequently during 5.
As a Board our duty is to make change where it is in the interests the year in addition to Board meetings to formally discuss of shareholders.
The changes made in the last quarter of the year governance issues once with the Chairman and Chief Executive were sometimes uncomfortable particularly as the significant Officer present, three times with the Chairman present, and the remodelling of the management systems including incentive remainder on their own.
After the final meeting, Graham Howe, arrangements began to gather momentum.
In general, the Senior Independent Director, provided feedback to the Board relationship between the Chairman who led and drove this process on the Independent Non-executive Directors collective views and the independent Non-executive Directors was maintained at a of the following: very high quality.
2005 06 Annual report 51 Board and governance Board and governance Corporate governance report Specific questions The perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer continued to work together through a difficult transition phase, sharing with the Board the issues that they were addressing.
They developed the view that a transition to a new structure was the best way to ensure effective implementation of the Companys strategy following the Energis acquisition.
Once it became clear that the new team in the UK was ready to take the lead, the Chairman worked with the CEO to ensure a rapid and orderly transition to the new organisation.
The degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and the Board Although significant issues needed to be addressed throughout the year communications between the Board and the Chief Executive Officer were open and frank.
The visibility of checks and balances within the Executive Directors team The primary checks and balances had until now been between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
During the year the Chief Executive Officer formed a Group executive committee so that checks and balances could be realised through the executive team.
With hindsight, insufficient communication between the UK business and the executive team and the lack of balance amongst the participants impaired the ability of this committee to function as well as had been hoped.
However, on the critical issue of UK earnings, the Board and executive management did act together to ensure proper and timely information was given to the market.
Whether all questions asked by the Non-Executive Directors have been adequately addressed Questions were answered in an honest and constructive manner.
Although every effort was made to address the issue, the need to improve the understanding of the underlying performance of the UK prompted the Board to request an additional review of in year financials prior to the statement to the market on the 31 January 2006.
Overall it was a difficult year for the company, the acquisition of Energis was completed after some delay, Bulldog experienced start-up challenges and the operational separation of the UK and International businesses took place: all in difficult trading conditions.
However many of the strategic and management tools are now in place and the execution risks are now being addressed.
Despite this period of change for the Company, through the significant efforts of the Board of Directors, its principal committees and the senior management team, the independent Non-executive Directors are satisfied that the appropriate corporate governance controls have been effective during the year ended 31 March 2006.
