Board and governance Report of the Audit Committee In addition, during the year under review, the Committee considered Terms of reference The objectives of the Audit Committee include assisting the Board and discussed the business set out below and made recommendations to the Board where appropriate: in meeting its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of internal control and compliance and accurate external financial preliminary results and press release for the year ended reporting: and assisting management in conducting and reporting the effective risk management of the Companys and Groups activities.
31 March 2005: the 2004 05 Annual report and accounts Form 20-F together In order to undertake this purpose, the Committee has terms of with the Directors statement on compliance with Turnbull guidance on internal controls and risk management: reference which are summarised below.
interim results and press release for the six months ended 30 September 2005: to review and, where necessary, challenge the actions and judgements of management in relation to the preliminary, full year corporate governance developments in UK and US arising from the revised Combined Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and interim financial statements before submission to the Board.
Particular attention is paid to critical accounting policies and including regular updates on the work being undertaken in connection with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: practices and any changes: clarity of disclosure: compliance with accounting standards, stock exchange and other legal and impact of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Groups results: regulatory requirements: to review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory delisting from New York Stock Exchange and deregistration of the Companys securities under the 1934 Securities Act: requirements arising from its listing in London and, to 13 December 2005, New York: insurance cover: integration plan following the acquisition of Energis: to review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements arising from its SEC registration: treasury policies: review of the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: to review material complaints regarding accounting, internal controls and auditing raised by the Companys employees and security, health and safety: and significant contracts and outsource agreements.
generally monitor the Companys whistle blowing procedures: to review the internal audit programme and consider the Disclosure Committee effectiveness of the internal audit function: and to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, The Audit Committee is assisted by the Disclosure Committee, which is primarily responsible for identifying and considering re-appointment and removal of the Companys auditor, to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the disclosure control issues in connection with the preparation of all market releases containing material financial information.
external auditor and process of the approval of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
Membership of the Disclosure Committee is limited to the Director Full terms of reference are available on request from the Company of Investor Relations, Group Financial Controller, Group General Counsel, Director of External Affairs and Group Treasurer although Secretary and are published on the Companys website.
other senior management and employees may be invited to attend where necessary.
During the preparation of the Companys annual Meetings The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year financial statements, the Disclosure Committee requests and obtains confirmatory statements from contributors prior to the document ended 31 March 2006.
Two additional meetings were also held.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is shown in the table on page 49. being approved by the Board.
Prior to each meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee meets Formal minutes are kept of Disclosure Committee meetings which are made available to the Board as a whole.
with the Group Director of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and the external auditor without the presence of Internal audit management.
During the year under review the Chairman of the Audit Committee also held private meetings with the Chief Financial The Group monitors its internal controls through a programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit function is headed by the Group Officer and the external auditors before each Committee meeting.
In addition, the entire Committee will meet i the external auditor Director of Internal Audit who is supported by a team of auditors based in the UK and Jamaica.
The Groups Internal Audit function without the presence of management and ii management without the presence of external auditor, at least annually.
has a formal charter approved by the Board that describes its purpose, authority and responsibility.
Standing reports were received from the Chief Financial Officer, the The functions annual audit plan is approved by the Group Audit external auditor, Group Director of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel at each scheduled meeting.
Private meetings are also held between the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Director of Internal Audit.
2005 06 Annual report 53 Board and governance Board and governance Report of the Audit Committee External audit KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditor of the Company since 1991.
The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended to maintain the independence of the Companys auditor.
The policy governs the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its associates to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The policy clearly identifies permitted services and those which are prohibited from being provided by the auditor.
In addition, the policy clearly sets out the procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit and non-audit services: all engagements with an expected value in excess of 250,000 require the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, fees for audit services of 3.9 million including 1.1 million relating to the prior year were approved by the Committee.
During the year, fees for audit related regulatory reporting of 800,000 and non-audit work of 1.2 million were approved.
The nature of the services provided is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Kasper Rorsted Chairman, Audit Committee 31 May 2006 54 2005 06 Annual report
