The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance Board, which is reviewed regularly, has been unchanged for some which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust company time.
In the Directors view the stability of the Board has been a and which enables the Company to comply with the applicable source of strength but they are nevertheless aware of the need to provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the refresh the composition from time to time and steps are being taken Combined Code.
to recruit one or more new directors over the current year.
The Board has also taken account of the AITC Code of Corporate The Board meets at least six times a year and convenes ad hoc Governance which was issued by the Association of Investment meetings as and when required.
Between meetings, regular contact Trust Companies in July 2003.
The Board has reviewed and applied with the investment managers is maintained.
The Board has the requirements of both codes except where stated otherwise.
formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its approval to ensure that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate The AITC has updated its Code of Corporate Governance and in issues.
These matters include approval of the Trusts investment March this year this new AITC Code was endorsed by the Financial policy, capital structure, share price and discount, committee Reporting Council FRC.
The FRC, which has oversight of the membership and terms of reference, financial reporting, risk Combined Code, has confirmed that reporting against the AITC management, board appointments and removals, corporate Code and following the AITC Guide to Corporate Governance governance, internal controls and contracts.
A procedure has been should allow boards to meet fully their obligations under the adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take Combined Code and in relation to the Listing Rules.
The Board will independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
report against the new AITC Code in the future.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring The Board considers that the Company has complied with the that Board procedures are followed and that the Company complies applicable provisions of the Combined Code throughout the with applicable rules and regulations.
When a new Director is accounting period to 31 January 2005.
Much of this statement appointed there is an induction process carried out by the describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to investment manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with the Company.
key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements and internal financial controls.
Changes affecting The Board Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
The Board currently consists of five Directors, all of whom are nonexecutive and independent of the Companys investment manager.
During the current year, the effectiveness of the Board was assessed Their biographies, on page 39, demonstrate a breadth of through interviews conducted by the Chairman with each Director.
investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
In addition, the performance of the Directors was evaluated by each Director, followed by a discussion with the Chairman.
The The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and Joe Chairmans own performance was evaluated by the other Directors, Scott Plummer was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in who met under the chairmanship of Joe Scott Plummer.
The results March 2005. of the effectiveness assessment and performance evaluation have been presented to the Nomination Committee.
The Board follows the AITC Code and considers Sir John Banham and Sir Bob Reid to be independent, notwithstanding that each has served The effectiveness assessment determined that the balance of the on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board does not consider Board was satisfactory.
that length of service has diminished the independence of Sir John Banham or Sir Bob Reid and continues to be of the view that their The Board has contractually delegated to the investment manager extensive experience and active knowledge of industry is of great the management of the investment portfolio, and the day to day benefit to the Board.
accounting and company secretarial requirements.
This contract was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of The Boards tenure policy is that new Directors stand for election at the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and control systems in operation, in so far as they relate to the affairs of then at least one third of Directors retire by rotation at each Annual the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly General Meeting.
Every Director is required to seek re-election at from the investment manager and ad hoc reports and information least every three years and annually after nine years service.
The are supplied to the Board as required.
The Boards statement on its names of the Directors retiring by rotation at this years Annual review of the management contract appears on page 43.
General Meeting are given on page 42.
The composition of the 36 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Attendance by Directors at formal Board and committee meetings performance.
It has dened terms of reference and consists of the non-executive Directors and excludes any Directors previously during the year was as follows: employed by the Managers.
It is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Management Chairman of the Board.
Audit Nomination Engagement The Board has not constituted a Remuneration Committee: all Director Board Committee Committee Committee Directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt No.
of meetings 6211 with by the whole Board.
Sir John Banham 5111 R. A. Bareld 6211 The Terms of Reference for each of the committees may be viewed Sir Bob Reid 6211 by shareholders on request.
P. J. Scott Plummer 5211 Financial Reporting H. A. Stevenson 6 2 1 1 The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
Board Committees Going Concern Audit Committee After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent non-executive that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, and has existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to dened terms of reference and duties.
The role of the Audit adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Committee is to assist the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Joe Scott The Independent Auditors Report can be found on page 34.
The committee considers that, collectively, its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge Internal Control their responsibilities fully.
The committee meets at least twice each The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys system of year and reviews the annual accounts and interim report and internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the considers the Auditors report on the annual accounts, the planning system of internal control, the Directors are aware that such a system and the process of the audit and the Auditors independence and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to objectivity.
It has also considered the non-audit services provided by achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not the Auditors and determined that they have had no impact on the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys accounting policies and considers their The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, appropriateness.
The Committee also reviews the terms of evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration.
It This process is subject to review by the Board and accords with the meets representatives of the Managers twice-yearly and receives Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code reports on the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company published in September 1999 the Turnbull guidance.
The and reviews the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee process has been fully in place throughout the year under review continues to believe that the Company does not require an internal and up to the date of signing of these Report and Accounts.
audit function of its own as it delegates its day to day operations to third parties from whom it receives internal controls reports.
The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have established and which are designed to provide effective internal Nomination Committee control are as follows: The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and The Board, assisted by the Managers, undertook a full review the re-election of existing Directors by shareholders.
The committee of the Companys business risks and these are analysed and also determines the process for the annual evaluation of the Board.
Every six months the Board receives The committee is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the from the Managers a formal report which details any known Board.
All Directors serve on the committee and consider internal controls failures, including those that are not directly nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
the responsibility of the Managers.
The Board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk Management Engagement Committee management are embedded in the operations and culture of The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each the Company and its key suppliers.
year to review the Management Agreement and the Managers 37 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the Relations with Shareholders Managers provides investment management, accounting and The Board strongly believes that the annual general meeting should company secretarial services to the Company.
The Managers be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
therefore maintain the internal controls associated with the day The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman of the to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities are Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the included in the Management Agreement between the Investment Manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The Company and the Managers.
The Managers system of internal number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be control includes organisation arrangements with clearly dened made available at the annual general meeting.
lines of responsibility and delegated authority as well as control procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by The Managers meet with institutional shareholders on a regular management and monitored by its internal audit department.
basis and report to the Board on matters raised at these meetings.
RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA and its compliance department regularly monitors compliance All correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
The Company, in common with other Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the investment trusts, has no internal audit department, but the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Directors effectiveness of the Managers internal controls is monitored by may write care of the Company Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation and any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and review by the Board of management accounting information special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report.
including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
against projections and performance comparisons.
Socially Responsible Investment and Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by Environmental Policy the Board.
The Investment Managers have been directed by the Board to take account of companies socially responsible investment and The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and Custodians environmental performance when taking investment decisions.
systems of controls and approves the appointment of any subcustodians.
The Audit Committee also receives reports from Exercise of Voting Powers the Managers and Custodians internal auditors, compliance The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The department and independent Auditors.
Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in The Board reviews the Internal Control reports of the respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on Managers and third party service providers, including those of its behalf, to the Managers.
the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, and Custodian, The Managers use a proxy voting service which casts votes in HSBC Bank plc.
accordance with the guidelines of the National Association of The Board has undertaken a full review of the aspects covered by Pension Funds NAPF research material, unless its clients request a the Turnbull guidance and believes that there is an effective very specic policy to be voted by its fund managers.
framework substantially in place to meet the requirements of the An extract from the Trusts voting record in the previous calendar Combined Code.
year will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the each year.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in As set out elsewhere in this report, the Managers provide certain which the Company is invested, they do not participate in decisions services, including internal audit services, to the Company.
Consequently, the Company does not have its own internal audit function.
