Corporate Governance Statement & Directors Responsibilities The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Mr Buchan.
The Board has considered the position of Mr governance.
The Board has put in place a framework Barby and Mr Buchan, as part of the evaluation process, and for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate believes that it would be in the Companys best interests to for an investment trust and which will enable the Company propose them for re-election at the forthcoming Annual to comply with the relevant provisions of the Combined General Meeting, given their material level of contribution.
Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council Any Director who has served on the Board for more than in July 2003.
The Board has made the appropriate nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
The disclosures in this report to ensure the Company meets its Directors support a planned and progressive renewing of continuing obligations.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with None of the Directors has a service contract with the the provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined Company.
The terms of their appointment are detailed Code throughout this accounting period, except where in a letter sent to them when they join the Board.
These explained below, and this statement describes how the letters are available for inspection at the registered office of relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information The Board in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to The Board currently consists of five non-executive discharge its duties.
The Board determines strategic issues Directors, all but one of whom are independent of the and all operational matters of a material nature.
This independence allows The Company has maintained appropriate Directors all of the Directors, with the exception of Mr Barby, to sit on Liability Insurance cover throughout the year.
Mr Barby, as a nonindependent Director, does not sit on the Audit & Boards responsibilities Management Engagement Committee or participate in The Board meets at least five times a year and between Board deliberations in which the Directors remuneration is these meetings there is regular contact with the Investment considered.
He is considered to be non-independent due to Manager.
The Board reserves to itself decisions relating to his employment by the Investment Manager, from whom he the determination of investment policy, any change in retired in December 2003.
However, the rest of the Board investment strategy, strategic gearing policy, policy on the agrees that this relationship does not affect his judgement buy back of shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, and in discussions relating to the Investment Manager and that entering into any material contracts.
The Board also sets his extensive experience of the investment trust sector is of investment parameters, such as the acquisition or disposal material value to the Company.
of substantial interests and the maximum amount that can Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director be invested in unquoted investments.
The provision of the Combined Code relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of which relates to the combination of the roles of the circulars to shareholders and listing particulars, relevant chairman and chief executive does not apply as the press releases and any significant change in accounting Company has no executive directors.
The Directors policies or practices must also be approved by the Board.
biographies, on page 18, demonstrate a breadth of The Directors also have access to the advice and services of investment and business experience.
the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it General Meeting and any Directors appointed to the Board complies with applicable rules and regulations.
Where since the previous Annual General Meeting also retire and necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, the Directors stand for election.
Directors retire at the first Annual may seek independent professional advice at the expense of General Meeting after they reach the age of 70 and are the Company.
generally not expected to seek re-election.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company The Directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the keeps proper accounting records which disclose with Companys Articles of Association are Mr Barby and Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 27 Corporate Governance Statement & Directors Responsibilities continued reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Investment Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial voting policy are set out on pages 21 and 22. statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the Boards responsibility to present a balanced and Committees of the Board understandable assessment, which extends to interim and As the Board is small it fulfils the function of the other price-sensitive public reports.
Nomination Committee which will meet when necessary to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of When looking for a new Director, the Board will assess the the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the size, balance and profile of the Board as a whole, to identify prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
any areas that need strengthening.
Due to the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty in Board Audit & Management Engagement finding new Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, Committee Director ongoing evaluation the existing Directors will try to identify suitable individuals The Board formally reviews its performance on a regular from their range of contacts, although other sources, basis, together with that of the Audit & Management including external search consultants, may also be used Engagement Committee.
An appraisal system has been agreed by the Board for A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Committee is made up of the independent Directors, Directors, including the Chairman.
The annual evaluation including the Chairman of the Company.
The Board for the year ended 31 December 2006 has been carried out.
considers that at least one member of the Committee has This took the form of questionnaires followed by sufficient recent and relevant financial experience for it to discussions to identify how the effectiveness of its activities, discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the including its Committees, policies or processes might be Company is a member of this Committee to enable him to enhanced.
The results of the evaluation process were be kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
The presented to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed terms of reference of this Committee are available that the current composition of the Board reflected a on request and are also available on the Investment suitable mix of skills and experience, and that the Board, as Managers website at www.
co. uk its under the a whole, and its Committees were functioning effectively.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst Delegation of responsibilities The Board has delegated the following areas other things, examines the effectiveness of the control systems.
The two planned meetings are held prior to the of responsibility: Board meeting to approve the interim and annual results, including the valuation of any unquoted investments.
The Management and administration Committee does not consider that as an investment trust The management of the investment portfolio and the company it needs to hold an additional meeting although administration of the Company have been delegated to the this is kept under review.
The Investment Manager, operating under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct During the year the principal activities of the Audit & responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to day Management Engagement Committee included: running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for reviewing the interim and financial statements and the the investment, financial and operating performance of the external Auditors report thereon: Company.
The Board has final investment authority on unquoted investments.
Custody and settlement services are reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, provided by The Bank of New York Europe Limited BNYE, independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: a subsidiary of The Bank of New York.
reviewing and approving the audit and non audit fees The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights payable to the external Auditor and the terms of attaching to the securities held in the portfolio to the their engagement: 28 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc reviewing and approving the external Auditors plan for Membership of the Board Committees the following financial year: Audit & Management Engagement Committee reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys Colin Buchan Chairman accounting policies: Oliver Baring Anthony Lea ensuring the adequacy of the internal controls systems Gordon Sage and standards: reviewing the investment management agreement and Attendance record the services provided by the Investment Manager: and Number of Meetings attended Board Audit approving the appointment of KPMG LLP as tax advisers Number of Meetings held 6 2 to the Company and their terms of appointment with Anthony Lea 6 2 effect from 15 June 2006.
Ian Barby 6 n a Oliver Baring 6 2 The Committee has also reviewed the whistleblowing Colin Buchan 6 2 policy that has been put in place by the Investment Gordon Sage 6 2 Peter Wilmot-Sitwell Manager under which its staff, in confidence, raise retired 17 03 2006 2 1 concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect Internal controls the Company.
The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Non audit fees of 4,000 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP for Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring their review of the interim financial statements.
An amount that financial information published or used within the of 25,000 was also paid to the Auditor in respect of business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring services provided in relation to the warrant issue on 20 compliance with regulations governing the operation of investment trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of March 2006.
The Board considers that the services provided the internal control system, on an ongoing basis to identify, are non-material and cost efficient.
On an annual basis evaluate and manage the Companys significant risks.
Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of their Control of the risks identified, covering financial, relationship with the Investment Manager and report to the operational, compliance and risk management, is Board, providing details of any other relationship with the embedded in the operations of the Investment Manager and Investment Manager.
The Board has concluded that Ernst & BNYE.
There is a monitoring and reporting process to Young LLP is independent of the Company and the review these controls, which has been in place throughout Investment Manager.
the year under review and up to the date of this report, The external Auditor is invited to attend the Audit & carried out by the Investment Managers corporate audit Management Engagement Committee meeting at which the department.
This accords with the guidance in the annual accounts are considered and, at which they have the Turnbull Report.
opportunity to meet with the Committee without The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its representatives of the Investment Manager being present.
review of internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis As the Board is small it with the exception of Mr Barby who and verbally at each Board and Audit & Management is considered non-independent fulfils the function of the Engagement Committee meeting.
The Audit & Management Remuneration Committee which will meet when necessary Engagement Committee also receives a report from BNYE to determine the remuneration of the Directors.
The on the internal controls of its custodial operations.
The remuneration of the Chairman and Directors is reviewed Company does not have its own internal audit function, as against the fees paid to directors of other specialist all the administration is delegated to the Investment investment trusts and investment trusts of a comparable Manager.
This matter is kept under review.
size, as well as taking account of any data published by the The Board recognises that these control systems can only Association of Investment Companies AIC.
be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 29 Corporate Governance Statement & Directors Responsibilities continued failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide Socially responsible investment reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material The Company invests in mining companies around the misstatement or loss, and relies on the operating controls world.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and established by the Investment Manager and BNYE.
financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, and also takes into The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and account environmental policies and other business issues.
management accounts which allow the Board to assess the The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to Companys activities and review its performance.
The Investment Managers The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly policies on Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority, Governance in the UK are detailed on their website and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including www.
co. uk its, in the Investment Trust Literature performance statistics and investment valuations, are Section.
The Companys accounts are also published on this submitted to the Board at each meeting.
website, which is maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Financial statements BlackRock.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable The maintenance and integrity of this website is, so far as it United Kingdom law and those International Financial relates to the Company, the responsibility of BlackRock.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this The Directors are required to prepare financial statements website.
for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial Relations with shareholders performance and cash flows of the Company and of the All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to attend Group for that period.
In preparing those financial and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the statements, the Directors are required to: Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is select suitable accounting policies and then apply explained in the Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual them consistently: General Meeting and related papers are sent to present information, including accounting policies, in a shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
understandable information: In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where users to understand the impact of particular the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys Management Engagement Committee and representatives financial position and financial performance: and of the Investment Manager are available to answer state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures are announced any material departures disclosed and explained in the to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Board meeting any feedback from meetings with accounting records which disclose with reasonable shareholders, and it also receives reports from its accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company corporate brokers.
and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Information, on pages 50 to 52, which provides an overview responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of useful information available to shareholders.
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
30 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
