Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to describe how they have complied with the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006.
"The Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC also published a Code of Corporate Governance for Investment Trusts ""AITC Code"" in July 2003."
The AITC Code, which was updated in February 2006, forms a comprehensive guide to best practice in certain areas of governance where the specific characteristics of investment trusts suggest alternative approaches to those set out in the Combined Code that may be preferable.
There is a certain amount of overlap with the Combined Code, although the focus of attention is on the points of difference.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust.
Application of the Principles of the Codes The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Statement describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code and the AITC Code have been applied by the Company throughout the year to 30 June 2006, except where disclosed below.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the Combined Code provisions throughout the year.
In instances where the Combined Code and the AITC Code differ, an explanation will be given as to which Code has been applied and the reason for that decision.
"The exceptions to compliance with the Combined Code, which are explained more fully under the headings of ""The Board"", were as follows: x a senior independent Director has not been appointed."
3.3 x the Combined Code recommends that the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee should comprise only independent non-executive Directors.
For the reasons set out below, Ms Glen, who is a member of both committees, does not fall within the definition of independence set out in the Codes.
"2.1 The Board The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom, with the exception of Ms M Glen, are considered under the Codes to be independent of the investment manager ""Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited"" or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct."
The firm of which Ms Glen is a partner provides legal advice to companies within the Managers group.
She will, therefore, offer herself for re-election annually.
Accordingly, Ms Glen does not meet the tests of independence from the Manager set out in the AITC Code.
Notwithstanding this, the Board takes the view that, in performing the role of Director, Ms Glen has displayed independence from the Manager.
The Combined Code states that, following appointment, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the AITC Code states that the test of independence continues to be appropriate and, consequently, the Board will follow the AITC Code.
The names and biographies of those Directors who held office at the date of this Annual Report, appear on pages 3 to 5 of this Annual Report and indicate their range of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
Sir David Trippier retired as a Director on 26 October 2006, and Mr Honebon was appointed a Director on 4 August 2005.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: x the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies.
x the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from analysis of investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis.
Murray Income Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued x Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the interim and annual Financial Statements and approval and recommendation of the interim and final dividends respectively.
x setting the range of gearing in which the Manager may operate.
x major changes relating to the Companys structure, including share buy-backs and share issues.
x board appointments and removals and the related terms.
x appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms and conditions of the management and administration agreements relating thereto.
x terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
x Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: x for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
x under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flows with the Board and its committees, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
x for advising through the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
When a Director is appointed, an induction process is arranged by the Manager.
This involves induction meetings which cover details about the Company, its Manager, legal responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various training specific to non-executive Directors, including training courses run by the AITC and the Manager.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior independent Director has not been appointed as the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
Consequently, no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
During the year ended 30 June 2006, the Board met six times, including a Strategy Meeting.
Details of attendance by each of the Directors and Committee members at Board and Committee meetings are shown below.
Between meetings, the Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters including gearing, asset allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Management Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Engagement and Strategy Committee Committee Committee Committee  Director  P A F Gifford 6 2 1 2 1 A J M Coats 6 2 1 2 1 M Glen 6 2 1 2 1 N Honebon 6 2 1 2 1 Sir David Trippier 2 1 1 1 1 H van der Klugt 6 2 1 2 1 To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including 34 Murray Income Trust PLC the Managers review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and Committees, and to consider each Directors independence.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors.
The Board considers that none of his other commitments set out on page 3 of this report interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company, and is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Company effectively.
There have been no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
External agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the Manager and other service providers, certain services: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Committees Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Company.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the following matters: x the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried out by an independent firm of consultants: x plans for succession: x the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: x the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: x the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and x the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the position of Chairman, the recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
In considering the appointment of a new Director, the Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
It may use the professional services of a search consultant to identify suitable candidates for review by the Board.
The Committee further recommended to the Board the nomination for re-election of Mr P A F Gifford, Mr H van der Klugt and Ms M Glen for the following reasons: x Mr Gifford, who has been a Director since July 1999, was previously a Director of Robert Fleming Holdings.
His experience in investment matters is greatly valued by his fellow Directors and consequently he was appointed Chairman of the Company on 27 October 2004. x Mr van der Klugt has been a Director since May 2004.
As a former Director of Schroder Investment Management, his experience in the fund management industry greatly enhances the combined experience of the Board.
x Ms Glen has been a Director since February 2003.
She is head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn solicitors and her experience in this area is of considerable assistance to her fellow Directors.
Her continued appointment as a Director facilitates the maintenance of an appropriate range of skills and experience on the Board.
Murray Income Trust PLC 35 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprising the full Board.
Mr A J M Coats, a chartered accountant, is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys website, are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Auditors, to be independent of the Company.
The matters considered by the Committee during the year included: x the review of the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company to assist in this the Committee received reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis: x the review of the annual accounts and interim report: x the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors if applicable : x the review of the scope and the results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees it should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the partner responsible for the audit every five years : x the review of the Auditors management letter and the management response: x the review of the management agreement: and x meetings with representatives of the Manager.
Management Engagement Committee As recommended by the AITC Code, a Management Engagement Committee has been established, comprising the full Board.
It annually reviews matters concerning the management contract which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the Management Agreement are shown on page 29 of the Annual Report.
Remuneration Committee and Directors remuneration Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 15.4.
15, where an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the Combined Code principles relating to directors remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board and whose Chairman is the Chairman of the Company.
The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future development of the Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on request and on the Companys website.
Directors terms of appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director who reaches the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
Policy on tenure The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board does not consider that the length of service of a Director is as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and therefore the length of service will be determined on a case by case basis.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager, accompanied occasionally by the Chairman, has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray Income Trust are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of 36 Murray Income Trust PLC Shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Participants in the Managers Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Directions enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Directions is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 56 to 59 sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32 and the Directors Report on pages 24 to 30.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event at which all Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands, and details will be posted on the Companys website.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free Shareholder information telephone service run by the Manager and the Company and the Manager responds to letters from Shareholders.
A website from which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
Accountability and audit The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is on page 39 and the Statement of Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page 30.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 40.
Internal control The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company which has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Companys assets to the Manager within overall guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the TurnbuIl guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
Murray Income Trust PLC 37 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report are outlined below: x the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance: x the Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: x as a matter of course the compliance department of Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the Managers operations: x written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third party service providers: x twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end: and x on a monthly basis the Board receives a detailed Compliance Report.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Managers Head of Internal Audit reports six-monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Manager, including its internal audit function and the work carried out by the Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests of the Company.
They acknowledge that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the Directors, therefore, ensure that they take regular account of the social, environment and ethical factors, which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
Exercise of voting powers The Directors believe that the exercise of voting rights at company meetings lies at the heart of the regulation and promotion of corporate governance.
The Board has, therefore, given discretionary voting powers to the Manager who endeavours to exercise these powers.
