CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The Board considers that the Company is compliant with the Combined Code, other than in the areas detailed on page 51.
The Chairman met with PIRC at the end of 2006 to discuss current corporate governance issues, their report on the Companys annual report and accounts for the previous financial year and, in particular, the steps that had been taken by the Company during 2006 in respect of the procedures that are in place to ensure the continuing independence of the non-executive directors.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman also met with Research Recommendations and Electronic Voting RREV to discuss these issues during 2006.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience and ability which will assist the Board in its key functions, are prerequisites for appointment.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five other executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The directors biographies are on pages 34 and 35.
Kevin Hart also served as Finance Director during the year under review but, following his resignation with effect from 17 November 2006, his biographical details are no longer included.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy Chairman, is Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
A key responsibility for the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director takes the lead when the non-executive directors assess the performance of the Chairman, further details of which are set out on page 43.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements, the Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
The Board delegates operational management of the Group on a day-to-day basis to the Group Management Board the GMB, which comprises the executive directors and senior management.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a predetermined limit.
During 2006 eight scheduled meetings of the Board were held.
Six of those meetings were held in Edinburgh: the other two Board meetings were held at our office in Gurgaon, India.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, are set out on page 47.
After the Board meeting held in India in October, the Board visited the Companys operations in Rajasthan and observed a number of the Groups corporate and social responsibility initiatives in India, details of which are set out in the accompanying Corporate Responsibility Report.
Due to the considerable amount of work involved in the IPO in addition to the day to day running of the business, a number of additional meetings of the Board were held and a committee constituted for the purposes of the IPO, comprising Norman Murray, Hamish Grossart, Mark Tyndall, Sir Bill Gammell and Kevin Hart.
The Board believes that the flexibility and commitment shown by all members of the Board during this particularly busy period was of great benefit in ensuring that the IPO proceeded in accordance with the timetable.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board continued In addition to the scheduled meetings of the Board and meetings required for the purposes of the IPO, during the year certain further meetings took place to deal with specific matters which required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure setting out when those matters must be considered at a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board comprising at least two non-executive directors one of whom must be the Chairman or Deputy Chairman and two executive directors.
All directors unable physically to attend Board and committee meetings are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
The formal agenda, which regularly includes presentations from senior operational management, for each scheduled Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the following Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the Board is in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members, members of the GMB and certain of the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Details of the procedures followed for the appointment of Jann Brown and Simon Thomson, who were appointed as directors of the Company during the year, are set out on page 46.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to its directors and in 2006 held a number of seminars for Board members on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, such as changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
These seminars, which are regularly presented by the Companys external advisers, were held at the end of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such meetings.
This process is continuing in 2007.
Any director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all press cuttings relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are distributed to all directors.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in October 2006 all of the directors visited the Companys operations in Rajasthan.
The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Performance Evaluations The Board has a formal annual process of rigorous performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees and individual directors.
The Board reviews on an annual basis whether such performance evaluation should be conducted using an external resource.
The Board has decided, however, that there is value in conducting the process internally in order to develop an appropriately tailored approach and benefit first hand from direct input from individual directors.
The performance evaluation of the Board and the Board committees was primarily based upon answers to a detailed questionnaire which had been updated since the previous years evaluation and which was prepared internally.
The questionnaire was distributed to all Board members and the Company Secretary.
The areas covered in the questionnaire included the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, performance against objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and corporate governance matters.
The questionnaire addressed all of the issues raised by the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, published in January 2003.
The review process carried out pursuant to the questionnaires can be summarised as follows: Evaluators Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Evaluating Board 3 3 3 Chairman 3 3 Board committees 3 3 3 Executive directors 3 3 Non-executive directors 3 3 Self assessment 3 3 3 42 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the Board and the Company Secretary, the Chairman held a meeting with each director and the Company Secretary individually to discuss their responses.
The Chairman then reported the results of the process to the Board at a Board meeting, which discussed the comments and implemented the conclusions.
The Board and Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Companys senior independent non-executive director, sought the views of the executive directors and met with each of the other non-executive directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to discuss and assess the Chairmans performance.
The results of this review were then discussed with the Chairman.
The Board not including the Chairman is satisfied that the Chairmans performance is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
The evaluation indicated areas for improvement, but no significant problems were identified.
A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually and the process for such review will continue to be reviewed by the Board in order to optimise the process.
The executive directors have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives which are set annually.
The bonus payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further on page 62 is linked directly to the results of these reviews.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
In particular, the process considered the independence of Hamish Grossart, Ed Story and Mark Tyndall.
Hamish Grossart Since Mr Grossart has served on the Board for more than nine years, in terms of the Combined Code he can be counted as independent only if the Board deems him to be so.
Mr Grossart commits a substantial amount of time to the affairs of the Company.
During 2006 he was heavily involved in a supervisory role in respect of the IPO.
Mr Grossart has also been the Deputy Chairman and a member of the Companys nomination, remuneration and audit committees for a number of years and has been the Companys senior independent non-executive director since the role was created in 2003.
Mr Grossart is a well respected and highly experienced businessman with a thorough knowledge of the Groups business.
The Board is aware that PIRC have queried whether Mr Grossart can be classed as an independent director of the Company.
We understand that, in terms of its internal policies, PIRC does not consider a non-executive director who has been on a board for more than nine years to be independent, notwithstanding that the Combined Code permits the Board to consider a director with this length of tenure to be independent.
Accordingly, the Board has rigorously reviewed the matter, without Mr Grossart being present.
Having undergone such a process, the Board is firmly of the view that Mr Grossart remains independent in character and judgement and that his performance continues to be effective and he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
In particular, the Board noted that Mr Grossart does not participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share option plans, long term incentive plans or pension scheme and is not dependent upon the fees received from the Company as his primary source of income.
Mr Grossart is also a non-executive director of Artemis, which manages a fund that has had a notifiable shareholding in the Company within the last three years although this shareholding is currently not large enough, and indeed has not been large enough since 2004, to be classed as a notifiable interest under UK law.
The Head of Compliance at Artemis has confirmed in writing to the Company that Mr Grossart does not participate in any investment management decisions at Artemis.
The Company seeks such confirmation on an annual basis.
The Board therefore does not consider that Mr Grossarts relationship with Artemis results in him not being independent.
Mr Grossart has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 17 May 2007 to this effect.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Mr Grossart to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Company.
The Board believes Mr Grossart continues to challenge rigorously the executive directors, the Board and the committees on which he sits in both a constructive and appropriate manner and brings a longer term perspective of the Company and the oil industry to the Board in his position as Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive director.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Ed Story Mr Story has also now served on the Board for more than nine years and, accordingly, can only be considered as independent if the Board deems him to be so.
Mr Story was appointed an independent non-executive director of Cairn in 1997.
He is a highly respected individual in the international oil and gas industry, in which he has more than 40 years experience.
Mr Story is a member of the Companys nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
After rigorous review, and without Mr Story being present, the Board has concluded that Mr Story remains independent in character and judgement and that his performance continues to be effective as well as demonstrating a continued commitment to his role as a non-executive director.
The Board also noted that Mr Story does not participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share option plans, long term incentive plans or pension scheme and is not dependent upon the fees received from the Company as his primary source of income.
Mr Story has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 17 May 2007 to this effect.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Mr Story to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Company.
The Board believes Mr Story continues to challenge rigorously the executive directors, the Board and the committees on which he sits in both a constructive and appropriate manner and his considerable expertise and industry experience is of great benefit to the Board, the Company and shareholders.
Mark Tyndall Mark Tyndall is the chief executive of Artemis, which manages a fund that has had a notifiable shareholding in the Company.
As stated above, however, this shareholding is currently not large enough to be classed as a notifiable interest under UK law.
Furthermore, the Company seeks confirmations from Artemis on an annual basis in respect of the chinese wall arrangements that are in place and that Mr Tyndall does not participate in any investment management decisions at Artemis in respect of Cairn.
The Board concluded, after rigorous review and without Mr Tyndall being present, that he is independent in character and judgement and that his performance is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
Following the evaluation and review process, the Board believes that, in addition to Mr Grossart, Mr Story and Mr Tyndall, all of the other non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement.
Board Committees The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before the AGM to be held on 17 May 2007.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the remuneration and nomination committees and the Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the audit committee.
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from each of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Audit Committee Report The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Andrew Shilston chairman, Hamish Grossart and Ed Story.
The Board is satisfied that two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Shilston was the Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to 2002 and is currently the Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc.
Mr Grossart serves on audit committees of other listed companies and trained as an investment banker.
The audit committee met five times in 2006.
At the request of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
The Chairman also attended two meetings as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
In addition, all five meetings were attended by the external auditors and four meetings were attended by the internal auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
44 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The role of the committee includes: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The audit committee meets on at least two occasions during the year end process.
Issues likely to impact the financial statements are raised at the initial meeting by both the senior management and the external auditors.
The auditors will also present their audit plan.
Audit committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the audit committee will recommend the policies to be adopted or direct senior management to produce further information if deemed necessary.
At the final meeting, the external auditors report their audit results to the audit committee, including a summary of the significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The audit committee will consider any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and on the cost of doing so.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
KPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also attends the Risk Management Committee meetings to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks.
The audit committee receives updates on the internal audit workplan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, meet with the internal auditors and attend audit committee meetings where internal audit updates are given.
The Company undertook an audit tender process in 2003, as a result of which Ernst & Young LLP were re-engaged as the Companys auditors.
The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, including an annual assessment carried out by the audit committee with input from the Finance Director and other key members of the finance team.
Following such assessment, the audit committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken.
Remuneration Committee Report The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Hamish Grossart Chairman, Ed Story, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
The remuneration committee met eight times in 2006.
The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals.
The Chairman also attended seven meetings of the committee during 2006 as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive, nor the Chairman participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED 2.
Remuneration Committee Report continued The role of the committee includes: determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the GMB: within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director: determining the level of awards made under the Companys share option plans and long term incentive plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash bonus scheme: determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long term incentive plans and exercise of share options: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 67.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee comprises Norman Murray Chairman, two independent non-executive directors Hamish Grossart and Ed Story and, to ensure input from the executive, one executive director, Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive.
The Combined Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this purpose, the Board has established the nomination committee, whose role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the re-appointment and orderly succession of existing directors.
Details of the procedures followed for the appointments of Jann Brown and Simon Thomson, who were appointed as Finance Director and Legal & Commercial Director respectively during the year, are set out below.
The nomination committee met five times in 2006.
Organisational Planning In 2006, Cairn continued to build on the success of its making a difference initiative.
In May, focus groups and feedback questionnaires were rolled out to employees and managers for them to assess the return on investment and the impact and success of our performance management system.
100% of managers felt the initiative helped them understand how to develop their teams competence and performance.
86% of employees were putting into practice what they had learned about themselves during the development and performance review process.
To develop employees behavioural and technical competencies, individual and departmental training plans were put together in December.
These training plans will be implemented throughout 2007 and will be supported by an extensive in-house training calendar consisting of training modules to meet the needs identified.
Work on establishing a set of Group Technical Competencies has now been completed.
These were put together through interviews with employees and workshops to identify the technical skills and knowledge needed to perform effectively in all areas of the business.
Appointment of new directors in 2006 During 2006, Jann Brown and Simon Thomson were appointed as directors of the Company.
The following procedures were followed: Appointment of Jann Brown Following the resignation of Kevin Hart as Finance Director, the nomination committee considered the technical abilities, experience, City exposure and leadership skills required of his successor.
After detailed consideration, the nomination committee identified Jann Brown, an internal candidate and the then Group Financial Controller at the Company, as a suitable successor.
Jann has been a member of the GMB for seven years and, in addition to her duties as Group Financial Controller, she had the key responsibility of project managing the IPO.
After seeking the views of the audit committee and other non-executive directors, a proposal that Jann Brown be appointed as Finance Director was put to the Board, who unanimously approved the appointment.
Jann Brown was appointed as Finance Director with effect from 17 November 2006.
Appointment of Simon Thomson The nomination committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and recommended that the Company appoint a new executive director to the position of Legal & Commercial Director.
After discussions with all the other members of the Board, the committee recommended to the Board that it meet formally to consider its recommendation that Simon Thomson, an internal candidate, who is a qualified solicitor and a member of the GMB, be appointed to the position.
Mr Thomson was appointed as Legal & Commercial Director with effect from 17 November 2006.
46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Directors Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2006: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Meetings held during 2006 8 5 8 5 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended 5 Executive Directors 4 1 2 Sir Bill Gammell 7 n a n a 5 Mike Watts 8 n a n a n a 3 2 Jann Brown 1 n a n a n a Malcolm Thoms 8 n a n a n a Phil Tracy 8 n a n a n a 3 Simon Thomson 1 n a n a n a Non-executive Directors 2 2 4 Norman Murray 8 n a n a 4 Hamish Grossart 8 5 8 5 4 4 4 Ed Story 7 5 6 2 4 4 Todd Hunt 7 n a 6 n a Mark Tyndall 8 n a 8 n a 4 Andrew Shilston 8 4 n a n a Notes: 1 n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
2 During 2006, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee and remuneration committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
3 Jann Brown and Simon Thomson were appointed as directors on 17 November 2006.
The number of Board meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
4 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
5 Kevin Hart was a director from 1 January 2006 to 17 November 2006.
During this time he attended seven Board meetings.
He also attended meetings of the audit committee by invitation.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and interim report and accounts to all shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results.
The Chairman attends a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database that details all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders and also has a website that contains a range of information, including a dedicated investor relations section.
Mr Grossart, the senior independent non-executive director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances this means that the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Annual General Meeting continued It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 17 May 2007 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 118 to 121 and on the Companys website.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under such law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have also elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group and the Company: the Companies Act provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU : and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going Concern The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system of internal control plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of Cairns corporate vision and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding Cairns shareholders interests and the Groups assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2006 accounting period and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during 2006, and will ensure that further reviews are performed in 2007.
The Board is satisfied that effective internal control is in place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
As an oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations concentrated in South Asia, Cairn is, by virtue of the nature of its business and the countries in which it operates, subject to a variety of business risks.
However, the directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in this core area and the experience that Cairn has gained over many years in the area enables the Company to manage these risks effectively.
48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and the directors believe that Cairns values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliances with key partners are ingredients that are central to Cairns success.
The ability to recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in Cairns approach and success.
2006 was a year of transformation for Cairn, with re-organisations at both the Group and India levels, and the subsequent IPO in January 2007.
Following the IPO, Cairn Energy PLC has retained a 69% holding in CIL.
This transformation was successfully achieved while maintaining effective control in relation to the risks in Cairns business activities.
CIL is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of SEBI and to its listing agreements with each of the BSE and the NSE.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement between Cairn Energy PLC and CIL, both companies have also agreed to use reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their obligations to SEBI, the FSA, the BSE, the NSE and under the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and the UK Disclosure and Insider Trading Rules.
This includes adopting and following the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk management, which will enable each to comply with these obligations.
The following describes the key elements of the internal control system and the processes used by the Board during 2006 to review the effectiveness of the system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2007.
Strategic Direction The Cairn business model is conventional in that Group strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board, and its implementation is delegated to the GMB.
Following its listing on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, CIL is now an autonomous company and its directors decide the companys strategy.
Cairn Energy PLC has three non-executive directors on the CIL board including Sir Bill Gammell as its Chairman and therefore has an input to this strategy.
Operating Management Cairn operates several business units in different countries and with various partners.
Work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at the asset level before being consolidated at both country and Group levels.
After an iterative process, the country budgets are presented as part of the Group budget to the GMB and the Board for approval.
Each country then prepares a detailed business plan to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional department, and is consolidated into the country business plan.
The country business plans are firstly approved by the in-country management teams and are then submitted to the GMB and the Board for approval.
The in-country management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plans and to deliver the agreed work programme within the approved budget and delegation of authorities, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
The remit of the GMB is to oversee the delivery of the Group strategy through the annual work programmes, budgets and the country business plans.
The directors have also appointed Group Functional Heads whose roles include providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
In view of the significance of the Rajasthan northern fields development, the GMB established a Project Board and project governance process in 2005, to ensure these fields are developed efficiently and in accordance with the project boundary conditions agreed by the GMB and the Board.
The Project Board continued to perform this role during 2006 and will be replaced in 2007 by a Project Review Board reporting to the CIL Executive Committee.
A Project, Engineering and Technology Advisory Board, chaired by Phil Tracy, has also been established to provide independent, expert advice to the CIL Board on the various projects being undertaken by CIL.
Risk Management The Risk Management Committee RMC, established by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Group and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring the Groups framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks.
The RMC is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises executive directors, senior country and Group functional management.
In order to improve transparency of key business risks, non-executive directors also attended committee meetings during 2006, including Norman Murray and Andrew Shilston.
The new Finance Director, Jann Brown, took over as chair of the Group RMC on the departure of her predecessor, Kevin Hart, in November 2006.
Further changes to the RMC membership, in order to maintain a robust and challenging approach to risk management, are planned in 2007.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED 3.
Risk Management continued The Business Risk Management Guidelines BRMG, that define the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group, were issued in April 2005.
The BRMG also identifies the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset and country levels.
Country level RMCs have continued to operate in India and Bangladesh during 2006. Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, have been recorded in Asset and Country Risk Registers, which following endorsement by the in-country RMCs are reported through to the Group Risk Register.
These Country and Group Risk Registers are regularly reviewed by the Group RMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded risk management approach in place.
At each Group RMC meeting a specific risk item has also been reviewed in more detail, through presentations by and questioning of the responsible manager.
During 2006 these more detailed reviews have included business systems strategy, the Rajasthan export pipeline, the business processes employed in treasury and financing, and the risks associated with the IPO process.
Since KPMGs appointment to manage the internal audit process in August 2004, steps have been taken to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process, including attendance at RMC meetings.
Following the IPO, the following steps have been taken in order to meet the risk management requirements under SEBI and the Combined Code: a separate autonomous CIL RMC has been established under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer.
The CIL RMC reports to the CIL audit committee, whose purpose it is to co-ordinate the business risk management process throughout the Cairn India Group on behalf of the CIL Board: CIL business risk management guidelines have been developed based on the Group BRMG: and Group monitoring of the CIL risk management process is being achieved through the Group Risk Manager attending CIL RMC meetings, the CIL Risk Register being made available and integrated into the Group Risk Register and CIL participation in the Group RMC meetings.
Assurance The integrated assurance framework adopted by the Board provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: firstly at the operational level: secondly through overview by Group functional management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
During 2006 the directors regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated Cairn representatives: specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: business and financial reporting, including KPIs: functional management reviews: the presence of various directors of the Company on CILs board in a non-executive capacity and certain of its committees.
The Board will also receive copies of minutes of meetings of the CIL board of directors: a relationship agreement with CIL, which contains provisions for the supply by CIL to the Company of such information and confirmations as the Company may require to comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations: a transition support agreement with CIL, to help ensure a smooth process in respect of the relocation of certain managerial functions from the Companys headquarters in Edinburgh to CIL in India: annual letters of assurance process, through which country managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls, their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit committee and the Board: reports from the audit committee and RMC including reports from the CIL RMC and CIL audit committee, which have been established following the IPO : reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: reports from audits by governments and co-venturers: and independent third party reviews commissioned by Cairn.
50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Compliance With Combined Code Throughout 2006 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Provision of the Combined Code Company Position Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, The Company complied with this At the start of 2006, the Board comprised five excluding the chairman, should provision from the start of 2006 executive directors and six non-executive directors comprise non-executive directors until 16 November 2006.
The Board determined that determined by the Board to be the period from 17 November the six non-executive directors were independent and independent.
2006 to 31 December 2006 the the Company therefore complied with this provision at Company did not comply with this time.
On 17 November 2006, Kevin Hart resigned this principle.
as Finance Director and was replaced by Jann Brown.
On this date, Simon Thomson was appointed as Legal & Commercial Director, resulting in the Board comprising six executive directors and six non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Nevertheless, the Board believes that these appointments were in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and is satisfied that it maintained a sufficient degree of independence throughout this period effectively and properly to discharge its obligations under the Combined Code.
The composition of the Board is being reviewed in conjunction with the Companys strategy following the IPO.
4.1 a majority of the members Throughout 2006 the nomination The Board believes that the membership of the of the nomination committee committee comprised two committee is appropriate and effective.
should be independent independent non-executive non-executive directors.
directors, the Chairman and one executive director.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 51
