Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of Normally, there are ten regular Board meetings a year corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on with other meetings being held as required.
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Jonathan Perry, Nigel Terrington, Nicholas Keen and Reporting Council in July 2003.
Throughout the year ended Pawan Pandya attended all of the ten regular Board 30 September 2006 the Company complied with the meetings during the year ended 30 September 2006. provisions of the Code, except for Code provision B2.1 Christopher Newell and Gavin Lickley attended nine in relation to the constitution of the Remuneration meetings and John Heron, David Beever and Robert Committee.
An explanation of this temporary departure Dench attended eight meetings.
is given under the section of this report headed 'Directors'.
All of the non-executive directors are independent of Directors management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They Throughout the year the Board of Directors comprised the are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and Chairman, four executive and four non-executive directors.
strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
Jonathan Perry has been All directors have access to the advice and services of the Chairman since February 1992 and Nigel Terrington Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for Chief Executive since June 1995.
In accordance with the ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary at least once in every three years.
The names of the are matters for the Board as a whole.
directors in office at the date of this report and their All directors are able to take independent professional biographical details are set out on pages 10 and 11. advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is The Group is in the process of recruiting two new considered appropriate to do so.
independent non-executive directors who will join the Board in place of Jonathan Perry, who retires on The Board also operates through a number of committees 8 February 2007, and Gavin Lickley, who retired from the covering certain specific matters, these being: Board on 12 October 2006.
The Remuneration Committee, which during the year The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and consisted of Gavin Lickley, who chaired the Committee, Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing Jonathan Perry, David Beever and Robert Dench.
There is a strong non-executive Mr Lickley retired from the Board on 12 October 2006. representation on the Board, including David Beever, who Jonathan Perry was appointed to the Committee has been nominated as the Senior Independent Director.
following publication of the revised Code in June 2006, This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Board which permits the Company Chairman to be a member is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving of the Remuneration Committee, although this is not major agreements, transactions and other financing permitted under section B2.1 of the current Code.
matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group Mr Perry's appointment to the Committee accords with against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant the revised Code and was made to enable him to assist information on financial, business and corporate issues in the transitional period whilst Robert Dench prepares prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of to take on the role of Company Chairman following matters reserved for decision by the Board, which Mr Perry's retirement from the Board on 8 February 2007. includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and The Company is in the process of recruiting two new the executive directors, determination and approval of the independent non-executive directors who will join the Group's objectives, strategy and annual budget, Committee in place of Jonathan Perry and Gavin Lickley.
investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financing and dividend policies.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 33 During the year ended 30 September 2006 there were The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and other ten meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
All executive directors, Director of Financial Accounting and meetings were attended by Gavin Lickley, Robert Dench Group Company Secretary, Director of Business Analysis and David Beever and three meetings were attended by and Planning, Director of Legal Services, Head of Jonathan Perry following his appointment to the Internal Audit and a partner from the external auditors Committee on 10 August 2006. normally attend meetings of the Committee.
Further information about the Remuneration Committee During the year ended 30 September 2006 there were is given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders four meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee on Directors' Remuneration on pages 18 to 29. and all members of the Committee were present at each meeting with the exception of Robert Dench and The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during David Beever, both of whom attended three meetings.
the year consisted of Christopher Newell, who chairs the Committee, David Beever, Gavin Lickley and The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench.
The Board is satisfied that all members Jonathan Perry, who normally chairs the Committee, of the Committee have recent and relevant financial Nigel Terrington and three non-executive directors, experience.
The Committee meets at least three times David Beever, Robert Dench and Christopher Newell.
It monitors the integrity of the Group's financial A majority of the Committee's members are reporting, reviews the Group's internal control and risk independent non-executive directors, in accordance with management systems, monitors and reviews the Code provision A4.1.
The Committee is convened as effectiveness of the Group's internal audit function, required to nominate candidates for membership of the monitors the relationship between the Group and the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment external auditors and provides a forum through which rests with the Board.
There was one meeting of the the Group's external and internal audit functions report Nomination Committee in the year ended 30 September to the non-executive directors.
The Committee is also 2006, at which all of the members of the Committee responsible for ensuring that the system and controls for were present.
The meeting was chaired by the Senior regulatory compliance are effective.
Independent Director, David Beever, to consider the appointment of a successor to Jonathan Perry following The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews the scope his decision to retire from the Board at the Annual and the results of the annual external audit, its cost General Meeting on 8 February 2007.
The Committee effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the recommended to the Board that, in view of his eminently external auditors.
Both the Audit and Compliance suitable experience and profile, Robert Dench should Committee and the external auditors have in place succeed Jonathan Perry as Chairman and that no safeguards to avoid compromises of the independence external candidates need be sought.
The Committee's and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Group has a recommendation was accepted by the Board.
The formal policy for the engagement of its external auditors Committee only engages in the process of identification to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board ensure that neither the nature of the service to be when requested by the Board to do so.
provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors' There is a formal process for the appointment of opinion on the Group's financial statements.
The policy directors, starting with a review of the Board structure, incorporates a comprehensive system for reporting to size and composition, leading to the preparation of a the Audit and Compliance Committee all proposals written job specification and the identification of suitable considered and the level of fees payable to the external candidates.
The Nomination Committee ensures that auditors for the provision of non-audit services.
In prospective non-executive directors can devote sufficient pursuance of this policy other accounting firms have time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the been engaged for particular assignments.
benefits that can flow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the commitments that might affect the time they can devote Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, to the Company.
The choice of appointee would be compliance functions.
34 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm appropriate heads of functions and chaired by to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
It meets regularly non-executive director, that, following formal performance and monitors Group interest rate risks, currency risks evaluation, the individual's performance continues to be and treasury counterparty exposures.
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate senior The non-executive directors meet at least annually to executives and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the review the performance of the Chairman.
It meets regularly and is responsible Directors' remuneration for establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of therewith.
executive directors and members of senior management All Board committees operate within defined terms of prior to determining its recommendations on annual reference and sufficient resources are made available to remuneration, performance bonuses and share options for them to undertake their duties.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors' under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an Remuneration is on pages 18 to 29. appropriate balance of power and authority between Relations with shareholders executive and non-executive directors and that the The Board encourages communication with the directors collectively possess the skills and experience Company's institutional and private investors.
All necessary to direct the Company and the Group's shareholders have at least twenty working days' notice of business activities.
the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and There is an established process for external appointments committee chairmen are available for questions.
The through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the Annual General Meeting is held in London during business appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report Executive director appointments are based upon merit and to investors on the Group's activities and to answer their business need.
Non-executive appointments are based questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote upon the candidates' profiles matching those drawn up by separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board are counted and the balance for and against each approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
The Board, individual directors and Board committees The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have are appraised annually.
The performance of the a full programme of meetings with institutional investors Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
during the course of the year and the Company's web site The performance of the other executive directors is at www.
co. uk provides access to appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the information on the Company and its businesses.
The results of these appraisals are presented Accountability and audit to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and Detailed reviews of the performance of the Group's main determination of remuneration.
business lines are included within the Chairman's In 2004 the Board utilised the services of an external Statement and Chief Executive's Review.
The Board uses consultant to facilitate a Board evaluation.
All Board these, together with the Directors' Report on pages 12 to directors were required to complete a detailed 14 to present a balanced and understandable assessment questionnaire on the performance of the Board and Board of the Company's position and prospects.
During 2006 the Board reconsidered the The directors' responsibility for the financial statements is specific matters raised by the questionnaire and, through described on page 30. a discussion facilitated by the Chairman, engaged in a formal and rigorous performance review.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 35 An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and The system of internal control is monitored by managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which management and by an internal audit function that is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its year ended 30 September 2006 and to the date of these conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of approved annually by the Audit and Compliance internal control for this period and that these procedures Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system accord with the guidance 'Internal Controls: Guidance for of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to Directors on the Combined Code'.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal Going concern basis control throughout the Group and for reviewing its After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage expectation that the Group and the Company have rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve adequate resources to continue in operational existence business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue absolute, assurance against the risk of material to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded accounts.
against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
36 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Contacts Registered and head office Brokers St Catherine's Court Hoare Govett Limited Herbert Road 250 Bishopsgate Solihull London EC2M 4AA West Midlands B91 3QE Telephone: 0121 712 2323 UBS Limited 1 Finsbury Avenue London office London EC2M 2PP Third Floor 30-34 Moorgate Remuneration consultants London EC2R 6PQ New Bridge Street Consultants LLP Telephone: 020 7786 8474 20 Little Britain London EC1A 7DH Internet www.
co. uk Consulting actuaries Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Auditors Four Brindleyplace Deloitte & Touche LLP Birmingham B1 2JQ Chartered Accountants Four Brindleyplace Birmingham B1 2HZ Solicitors Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY Registrars and transfer office Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 37
