58.31 PF DirectorsReport JD P8:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:46 Page 53 Provident Financial plc 53 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance report 1 Introduction This section explains how the company has applied the main and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the 2006 Combined Code.
The statement of compliance is set out on page 58 in paragraph 13.
2 The board Composition 2.1 The board leads and controls the company.
It currently comprises four executive directors, five non-executive directors and a Chairman.
Following the resignation of the Chief Executive, Robin Ashton, with effect from 31 December 2006, the Chairman is currently acting as Chief Executive on a temporary basis and the provisions of sub-paragraph 2.2 should be read in the light of this.
Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive 2.2 The board has previously approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for chairing the board meetings, and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the annual general meeting AGM and the nomination committee.
He is also responsible for ensuring that an effective strategy is approved by the board and that an annual evaluation of the board is carried out.
The Chief Executive is primarily responsible for implementing the companys strategy, as well as being a focal point for communication with shareholders.
All other responsibilities other than those detailed above, those reserved to the board as a whole and the board committees are the responsibility of the Chief Executive, who will delegate appropriately.
Chairman 2.3 The Chairman is also Chairman of Huveaux PLC.
There have been no material changes in his other commitments during the year or since the year end.
Non-executive directors 2.4 Each of the non-executive directors has been formally determined by the board to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
2.5 Non-executive directors are currently appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended for one further three-year period and, in exceptional cases, further extended, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the companys registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
2.6 Ray Miles has been appointed as the senior independent director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
2.7 Charles Gregson, the non-executive Joint Deputy Chairman, was first elected to the board on 19 April 1995 and thus, on 19 April 2007, 12 years will have elapsed since his first election.
Notwithstanding this, the board has determined him to be independent in character and judgement.
In coming to this decision the board considered all the relevant circumstances but ultimately concluded that a term of office of 12 years had not changed Charles Gregsons status, given that independence is ultimately determined by state of mind.
He continues to make a distinct and strong contribution to strategy discussions and his experience of international businesses is a particular asset to the group as it continues with international expansion.
In 2006, the nomination committee reviewed the structure and composition of the board.
It took the view that the five current nonexecutive directors bring an appropriate balance of skills and expertise to the board.
Furthermore, although Charles Gregson has served for 12 years, one of the non-executive directors has served for less than four years and two have served for less than one year: these more recent appointments have ensured that the board has been refreshed and remains appropriately balanced.
Governance framework 2.8 The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including corporate strategy, approval of budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed on 13 December 2006.
There are five principal board committees.
All committees have written terms of reference which are reviewed on an annual basis and were last updated on 13 December 2006.
The terms of reference can be found on the companys website or are available on request from the Company Secretary, who is secretary to all the committees.
In addition, the group has detailed corporate policies which set out authority levels within the group.
Subsidiary companies are required to report on compliance with policies on an annual basis.
Meetings 2.9 The board normally has seven scheduled meetings a year, including an annual planning conference.
A pack of board papers including a detailed agenda is sent to each director in the week before the board meeting so that he has sufficient time to review them.
All directors are, therefore, able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between meetings, where necessary, to progress the companys business.
In 2006, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors without any executive director present.
The non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to discuss the Chairmans performance and the senior independent director was responsible for discussing this with the Chairman.
58.31 PF DirectorsReport JD P8:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:46 Page 54 54 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance report continued 2 The board continued Company Secretary 2.10 All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all the board committees.
Independent advice 2.11 There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice relating to the performance of his duties at the companys expense.
Re-election of directors 2.12 Under the companys articles of association, one third of the directors is obliged to retire each year and each director must offer himself for re-election every three years.
After nine years, a director must offer himself for re-election annually.
A director who is initially appointed by the board is subject to election at the AGM following his appointment.
In 2006, biographical details of the directors submitted for re-election at the AGM were supplied to shareholders in the circular dated 5 April 2006.
Policy on other board appointments 2.13 In December 2004, the board updated its policy on other directorships.
This applies to the Chairman and executive directors, and to non-executive directors who are appointed or whose term of office is extended after 1 January 2005.
The policy is set out in paragraphs 2.13.1 to 2.13.3 below.
Any request for an exception to this policy is considered on its merits.
2.13.1 As was previously the case and as specified in the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, any proposed appointment to the board of another company will require the prior approval of the board.
2.13.2 An executive director will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the board considers that this will not adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the board would not permit an executive director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
2.13.3 The companys policy is that a non-executive director should have sufficient time to fulfil his duty as such, including chairing a committee.
The board will consider all requests for permission for other directorships carefully, having regard to the following principles.
A non-executive director would not be expected to hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he would not be expected to hold more than two material non-executive directorships.
Only one FTSE 100 company, or two FTSE 350 companies, should be chaired at any given time.
Performance evaluation 2.14 In December 2006, the board completed the fourth evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Chairman was primarily responsible for this evaluation and submitted a questionnaire to all directors.
This contained questions on different aspects of the operation of the board and its committees and the performance of individual directors.
The senior independent director was responsible for collating comments on the Chairmans performance.
A summary of the evaluation was presented to the board on 13 December 2006.
The board considered the results of the evaluation and proposals to take account of these were agreed.
Training 2.15 Appropriate training and briefing is provided to all directors on appointment to the board, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
Ongoing training is arranged to suit their individual needs including environmental, social and governance training as appropriate and the Company Secretary, reporting to the Chairman, is responsible for identifying appropriate training courses for directors.
An annual update session is arranged for the board.
3 Report on the audit committee 3.1 From 1 January to 31 December 2006, this committee consisted of John Maxwell and Ray Miles under the chairmanship of Graham Pimlott.
On 31 December 2006 Tony Hales became a member of this committee.
Graham Pimlott ceased to be a member and Chairman on 27 February 2007.
Robert Hough became a member of this committee on 28 February 2007 and John Maxwell became Chairman.
3.2 The committee met five times in 2006.
3.3 The committee makes recommendations to the board, for the board to put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
It reviews and monitors the independence and objectivity of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
It develops and implements policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services and reports to the board identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
It monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the company and the formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
It also reviews the groups whistleblowing policy.
58.31 PF DirectorsReport JD P8:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:46 Page 55 Provident Financial plc 55 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance report continued 3 Report on the audit committee continued 3.4 The groups internal audit function is provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
The committee formally agrees the internal audit plan once a year and reviews regular reports on the activity of the internal audit function.
As the internal audit function reports to the committee, this helps to ensure the functions independence from group management and ensures that appropriate action is taken in response to audit findings.
3.5 At the invitation of the committee, meetings are attended by both the internal and external auditors as required and by the Finance Director and the director of group accounting.
At least twice a year the members of the committee meet with the external and internal auditors without an executive director or member of the companys senior management being present.
3.6 At its February and September meetings the committee had a separate session with the groups auditors  LLP PwC without any executive director or employee of the company or group being present.
This gave members of the committee the opportunity to raise any issues on the final or interim results of the group directly with PwC.
3.7 The committee is conscious of the need to ensure that the auditors are, and are perceived to be, independent and its work relating to this is summarised in paragraphs 3.7.
1 PwC provide the committee with a letter of independence, which is regularly updated and considered by the committee.
2 The committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of staff from the auditors to positions within the various group finance departments.
It grades appointments into four categories and sets out the approvals required.
Neither a partner of the audit firm who has acted as engagement partner, the quality review partner, other key audit partners or partners in the chain of command, nor a senior member of the audit engagement team, may be employed as group Finance Director or director of group accounting.
3 A formal policy on the use of auditors for non-audit work was adopted by the company in 2003.
This policy is formally reviewed once a year.
4 The main elements of the policy are as follows.
The award of non-audit work to the auditors is managed in order to ensure that the auditors are able to conduct an independent audit and are perceived to be independent by the groups shareholders and stakeholders.
The performance of non-audit work by the groups auditors should be minimised and work should be awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors are clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers.
The group should maintain an active relationship with at least two other professional accounting advisors.
The nature and cost of all non-audit work awarded to the groups external auditors for the period since the last meeting and for the year to date will be reported to each meeting of the audit committee, together with an explanation as to why the auditors were the preferred supplier.
No information technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to the auditors without the prior approval of the Chairman of the audit committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional circumstances.
The Chairman of the audit committee must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
The auditors may not perform internal audit work.
5 In 2006, the committee regularly considered a schedule of non-audit work carried out by PwC.
Work carried out by PwC for the group in 2006 fell broadly into five categories: fees payable to the company auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements: audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation: other services pursuant to legislation: tax services: and other services.
Fees paid to PwC in 2006 are set out on page 82 in note 3 of the notes to the financial statements.
3.8 The committee has formally considered its effectiveness in 2006.
The overall view was that the committee was working effectively.
4 Report on the nomination committee 4.1 From 1 January to 31 December 2006, this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Charles Gregson, John Maxwell, Ray Miles and Graham Pimlott under the chairmanship of John van Kuffeler.
Robin Ashton ceased to be a member on 31 December 2006 and Graham Pimlott ceased to be a member on 27 February 2007.
On 28 February 2007, Tony Hales, Robert Hough and Christopher Rodrigues became members of this committee.
4.2 The committee met six times in 2006.
4.3 Its remit is to assist the board in the process of the selection and appointment of any new director and to recommend to the board the appointment of any new director.
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the board.
It considers and, if appropriate, recommends to the board the extension of the term of office of a non-executive director.
It considers the succession plan annually and reports to the board that it has done so.
4.4 In 2006, the committee reviewed the structure and composition of the board.
It considered the succession plan in December 2006 and reported formally to the board that it had done so.
It recommended to the board the appointment of Peter Crook.
It managed the selection process for the appointment of the new Finance Director, Andrew Fisher, and recommended his appointment to the board.
It also managed the selection processes for the appointment of two further non-executive directors, Tony Hales who was appointed to the board on 14 October 2006 and Robert Hough who was appointed to the board on 1 February 2007.
In addition, it managed the process for the appointment of Christopher Rodrigues who was appointed to the board on 26 January 2007.
On each occasion the committee instructed an external search consultancy.
58.31 PF DirectorsReport JD P8:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:46 Page 56 56 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance report continued 5 Report on the remuneration committee Full details of the composition and work of the remuneration committee are contained on page 59 in paragraph 2 of the directors remuneration report.
6 Report on the executive committee 6.1 From 1 January to 8 March 2006, this committee consisted of John Harnett and David Swann under the chairmanship of Robin Ashton.
On 8 March 2006, Peter Crook became a member: and on 17 May 2006, Andrew Fisher became a member and David Swann ceased to be a member.
On 31 December 2006, Robin Ashton ceased to be a member and Chairman and John van Kuffeler became a member and Chairman.
On 28 February 2007, Christopher Rodrigues became a member and Deputy Chairman of this committee.
6.2 The committee normally meets at least once a week, and more frequently as required, and deals with matters relating to the running of the group, other than those matters reserved to the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
7 Report on the risk advisory committee 7.1 From 1 January to 31 December 2006, this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Charles Gregson, John Maxwell and Graham Pimlott under the chairmanship of Ray Miles.
On 31 December 2006, Robin Ashton ceased to be a member of the committee and Andrew Fisher was appointed as a member.
Graham Pimlott ceased to be a member on 27 February 2007.
On 28 February 2007, Ray Miles ceased to be Chairman and Tony Hales became a member and Chairman of this committee: Robert Hough and Christopher Rodrigues also became members.
7.2 The committee met three times in 2006.
7.3 Its function is to keep under review the effectiveness of the groups system of non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls and risk management, and to report to the board on its work.
It keeps the group risk register under review and considers the most important risks facing the group and their mitigation.
8 Board and committee attendance 8.1 The table in paragraph 8.2 below shows the attendance at the meetings of the board and committees.
Attendance at meetings by directors, other than members, is not shown.
8.2 Board and committee attendance in 2006 Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk advisory Board committee committee committee committee Total number of meetings in 2006 12 5 8 6 3 John van Kuffeler 12 6 Robin Ashton 11 4 3 Peter Crook 9 Andrew Fisher 7 John Harnett 11 Charles Gregson 11 5 2 Tony Hales 2 John Maxwell 12 4 8 6 2 Ray Miles 12 3 8 6 3 Graham Pimlott 11 5 7 6 3 David Swann 5 These directors joined the board during the year.
This director resigned from the board during the year.
58.31 PF DirectorsReport JD P8:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:46 Page 57 Provident Financial plc 57 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance report continued 9 Accountability The board presents the companys position and prospects in as clear a way as possible, both by means of the annual report and in circulars and reports to shareholders.
These documents are posted on the companys website.
Announcements made by the company to the London Stock Exchange are also posted on the companys website.
10 Internal control 10.1 The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
10.2 The key elements of the internal control system which have been established in accordance with the revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance are set out in paragraphs 10.2.
1 In December each year, the board approves detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
A detailed review takes place at the half-year.
Actual performance against budgets is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
2 The audit committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the internal auditors and reports to the board regularly.
An annual programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by the internal auditors.
The operation of internal financial controls is monitored by regular management reviews, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
3 The risk advisory committee considers the nature and extent of the risks facing the group, keeps them under review, reviews the framework to mitigate such risks, and notifies the board of changes in the status and control of risks.
It reports to the board on a regular basis.
In addition, the risk advisory group consisting of the executive directors, the director of group accounting and the Company Secretary formally reviews internal risk assessments from each division twice a year and directs reviews of internal controls and particular areas of risk.
It reports to the risk advisory committee.
4 The board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with its corporate policies and subsidiaries are obliged to certify compliance on an annual basis.
10.3 In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, the board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups framework of internal controls during 2006.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company, as set out above, was in place throughout 2006 and up to 7 March 2007.
The board will also, whenever appropriate, ensure that necessary actions have been, or are being taken, to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
11 Relations with shareholders 11.1 The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the executive directors and shareholders and ensuring that the views of the shareholders are made known to the board.
An investor relations report is considered by the board regularly and independent reviews of shareholder views are commissioned.
11.2 The company encourages private investors to attend the AGM.
The chairmen of the board committees are available to answer questions from shareholders at the AGM and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
11.3 At the 2006 AGM, details of proxy votes cast on each resolution were made available to shareholders and other interested parties by means of an announcement to the London Stock Exchange and the companys website.
11.4 At the 2006 AGM, the company proposed separate resolutions on substantially separate issues and will continue to do so.
It is the companys policy to give shareholders in excess of 20 working days notice of the AGM.
11.5 The company has established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme to enable shareholders to take advantage of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system.
Members of this scheme receive all documents sent to shareholders and may attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
58.31 PF DirectorsReport JD P8:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:46 Page 58 58 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance report continued 12 Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements 12.1 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent auditors report on page114, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
12.2 The directors are required to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
They are also required to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Such financial statements should present fairly for each financial year the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the group and the company.
12.3 The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 70 to 113, the group has used and consistently applied the appropriate accounting policies and presented the information contained therein in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
The directors confirm that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements and that additional disclosures have also been made when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable understanding of the impact of particular transactions and events on the companys financial position and performance.
12.4 The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and the company and to prevent and detect material fraud and other irregularities.
12.5 This document the Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 will be published on the companys website in addition to the normal paper version.
The maintenance and integrity of the Provident Financial website is the responsibility of the directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
12.6 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
13 Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The company complied with all the provisions in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code throughout 2006.
Since the company is technically required by the Listing Rules to report on compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 the 2003 Combined Code, it is confirmed that the company complied with all the provisions in Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code throughout 2006.
