Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The directors are committed to high standards of corporate PPM America management teams on the US businesses and future governance and support the Combined Code on Corporate market opportunities.
In November 2006, a Board meeting was Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
held in Derby, which included presentations on the operations The Company has complied throughout the financial year ended of Egg.
31 December 2006 with all of the provisions set out in Section 1 The majority of the directors attended all scheduled Board of the Code, and has applied the principles of the Code in the meetings occurring during their period in office, apart from some manner described below and in the directors remuneration report.
absence due to ill health, family bereavements and one clash with The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk a long-standing prior engagement.
In addition, Mr Norbom was no containing a wide range of information of interest to private and longer required to attend Board meetings after it had been agreed institutional investors where further information can be obtained, that he would be leaving the Company.
There were two additional including the Groups financial calendar.
Board meetings, and the majority of the directors attended those meetings.
Where directors were not able to attend any of the meetings, their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to The Board the meeting.
The table on page 77 details the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each director throughout As at 31 December 2006, the Board comprised the Chairman, the year.
A further six ad hoc Board Committee meetings took six executive directors and seven independent non-executive place during the year.
In addition, the Chairman met with the directors, as set out on pages 80 and 81.
Nick Prettejohn, Lord non-executive directors without the executive directors present Turnbull and Barry Stowe were appointed as directors on 1 January 2006, 18 May 2006 and 1 November 2006 respectively.
Rob Rowley and Mark Norbom ceased to be directors of the The Boards terms of reference, which are regularly reviewed, set Company on 18 May 2006 and 14 December 2006 respectively.
out those matters specifically reserved to it for decision, in order In accordance with the Articles of Association, Barry Stowe will to ensure that it exercises control over the Groups affairs.
These retire and offer himself for election at the Annual General Meeting include approval of the annual and interim results, strategy and on 17 May 2007.
Philip Broadley, Michael Garrett, Bridget corporate objectives, operating plans, significant transactions and Macaskill and Clark Manning will retire by rotation at the Annual matters affecting the Companys share capital.
General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
A corporate governance framework approved by the Board maps The non-executive directors bring a wide range of business, out the internal approvals processes and those matters which financial and global experience to the Board.
Biographical details may be delegated.
These principally relate to the operational of the current Board members appear on pages 80 and 81. management of the Groups businesses and include pre-determined Details of each directors interests in shares and debentures of authority limits delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive the Company and its subsidiary, Egg plc, which was listed until for further delegation by him in respect of matters which are 20 February 2006, are set out in the directors remuneration report necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management on page 88.
Protections afforded to directors, including qualifying of the business.
third party indemnities under the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, are detailed in the directors remuneration report on page The chief executive of each business unit, who in respect of his 87.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate business unit responsibilities reports to the Group Chief Executive, and clearly defined, and the scope of these roles has been has authority for management of that business unit and has approved by the Board so that no individual has unfettered established a management board comprising its most senior powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for the executives.
In accordance with the Group Governance Framework, leadership and governance of the Board as a whole and the business unit chief executives certify annually their compliance with Group Chief Executive for the management of the Group and the the requirements of the framework.
The Board has adopted a Code implementation of Board strategy and policy on the Boards behalf.
of Business Conduct, which sets out the behaviour expected of staff In discharging his responsibility, the Group Chief Executive is in their dealings with shareholders, customers, fellow employees, advised and assisted by the Group Executive Committee, suppliers and other stakeholders of the Group.
A copy of the comprising all the business unit heads and a Group head office Companys Code of Business Conduct may be found on the website team of functional specialists.
James Ross is the Companys Senior at www.
co. uk prudential-plc cr managementpolicies Independent Director, to whom concerns may be conveyed by codeofconduct shareholders if they are unable to resolve them through the The Board is responsible for ensuring that an effective system for existing mechanisms for investor communications, or where such succession planning and management development is in place.
The Chairman meets, at least annually, This is delivered through an established review process that is with the non-executive directors without the executive directors applied across all the businesses and covers both director and being present.
senior management succession and development.
The Board During 2006, the Board met 11 times and held a separate two-day reviews the outcomes of the review annually and actions arising strategy meeting.
Each year, at least one of the Board meetings is from the review are implemented as part of the management held at one of the Groups business operations to facilitate a fuller development agenda.
understanding of the diversity of the business.
In June 2006, a All directors have direct access to the services of the Company Board meeting was held in Chicago.
The Board also visited the Secretary who advises them on all corporate governance matters, offices of Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson on Board procedures, and on compliance with applicable rules and in Lansing, Michigan, and took part in a day and a half of regulations.
In order to ensure good information flows, full Board presentations given by senior members of the Jackson and Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 73 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued and Committee papers are provided to the directors by the half-year and full-year results, press releases and annual report Company Secretary in the ordinary course approximately one and accounts: week before each Board or Committee meeting.
accounting policies and key judgemental areas, Group policies for compliance with relevant regulations worldwide, including Other commitments of the Chairman and changes during the year Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: are detailed in his biography on page 80.
The Board is satisfied that these other commitments are not such as to interfere with the US filings and related external audit opinion: performance of the Chairmans duties for the Group.
external auditors interim management letter, external auditors full-year memorandum, external audit opinion and final Board Committees management letter: The Board has established audit, remuneration and nomination auditor independence, external auditors plans and audit committees, each a standing committee of non-executive directors strategy, effectiveness of the external audit process, external with written terms of reference, which are kept under regular auditors qualifications, expertise and resources, economic review.
Reports of each of those committees are included below: service, and recommendations for the appointment reAudit Committee report appointment of the external auditor: The Group Audit Committee is a key element of the Groups framework and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal governance framework.
This report sets out its responsibilities and control and Turnbull compliance statement: the work the Committee has done to meet its objectives.
effectiveness of the Group Risk Framework and half-yearly key Role of the Committee risk report: The Committees principal oversight responsibilities cover: internal audit plan and resources, and monitoring of the audit internal control and risk management: framework and internal audit effectiveness: internal audit: effectiveness of compliance processes and controls, and external audit including auditor independence : and performance against the Group Compliance Plan: audit committee effectiveness and terms of reference: financial reporting.
The Committee has formal terms of reference set by the Board, Group Security annual report, report on anti-money laundering which are reviewed regularly.
and reporting of allegations from whistleblowers: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and practices: Membership The Group Audit Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Supplementary Financial Reporting under European Embedded non-executive directors of the Company, as set out below: Value EEV : and Kathleen ODonovan ACA Chairman changes in and implementation of Group Accounting Policies in Keki Dadiseth FCA compliance with International Accounting Standards and James Ross practices, including the European CFO Forum Principles and Lord Turnbull appointed 1 January 2007 Guidance on Embedded Values and IFRS.
Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, including During the year, the Committees standing agenda items also their relevant experience, are set out on pages 80 and 81. included reports from Group-wide Internal Audit, Group Risk, The Board has designated Kathleen ODonovan as its audit Group Compliance, Group Tax and Group Security.
In addition, committee financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes: she the Committee received presentations from some of the business also has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes unit chief executives and members of senior management.
The Group Audit Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters of particular significance after each Committee meeting, Meetings and the minutes of Committee meetings were circulated to all The Committee met nine times during the year.
invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Company Secretary, the GroupThe Committee recognises the need to meet without the presence wide Internal Audit Director, and other senior staff from Internal of executive management.
Such sessions were held in February Audit, Group Risk and Group Compliance where appropriate, as and July 2006 with the external and internal auditors, and in well as the external auditor, attended the majority of the meetings.
September 2006 with the internal auditors.
The Chairman held preparatory meetings with the Group-wide Business unit audit committees Internal Audit Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the external Each business unit has its own audit committee whose members auditor, the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary and chairmen are independent of the respective business unit.
before each Committee meeting, with the exception of single-issue The chairmen of these committees are approved by the Chairman meetings.
A detailed annual agenda has been developed which of the Group Audit Committee, and the committees are attended ensures all matters for which the Committee is responsible are by business unit senior management including the business units addressed at the appropriate time of year.
The principal business chief executives and heads of finance, risk, compliance and of the Committees meetings includes: internal audit.
Business unit audit committees have similar terms 74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report of reference to the Group Audit Committee, and report significant External audit issues to the Group Audit Committee when they arise.
They The Group Audit Committee has a key oversight role in relation to approve the business unit internal audit plans and oversee the the external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship adequacy of internal audit resources, receive presentations from is with the Committee.
The Groups Auditor Independence Policy external audit, and meet privately with local external audit and the ensures that the independence and objectivity of the external business unit heads of internal audit.
auditor is not impaired, and that the Group maintains a sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
The policy sets out Internal control and risk management four key principles which underpin the provision of non-audit The Group Audit Committee reviewed the Groups statement on services by the external auditor, namely that the auditor should not: internal control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It audit its own firms work: also reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing and managing business risks.
Throughout the year, the Committee make management decisions for the Group: received the minutes of the Disclosure Committee and the Group have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or Operational Risk Committee and noted their activities.
Further information on those Committees appears on pages 79 and 55. be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley The Committee reviewed and updated the policy in December 2005.
Act, the Group must undertake an annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
In The Group has a policy that at least once every five years, the common with other companies which must comply with this Committee undertakes a formal review to assess whether the legislation, this has required the Group to undertake a significant external audit should be re-tendered.
The external audit was last project to document and test its internal controls over financial put out to competitive tender in 1999 when the present auditor reporting.
The Committee has overseen the progress of this was appointed.
In both 2005 and 2006, the Committee formally project through regular status reports submitted by management considered the need to re-tender the external audit service and in 2006.
During the year, the Groups external auditor, KPMG concluded that, given the significant changes in accounting and Audit Plc, also reported to the Committee on the Companys regulatory requirements, the interests of the Company were better progress towards compliance with Section 404.
The first annual served by retaining the existing auditor through a period of assessment and related report from the external auditor will be transition.
In addition, the Committee concluded that there was included in the Groups annual report on Form 20-F, which will be nothing in the performance of the auditor requiring a change, published in the coming months.
except a rotation of audit partner, in line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Internal audit which the Group is effecting following approval of the 2006 The Group Audit Committee regards its relationship with internal Annual Report.
audit as a particularly important one.
Group-wide Internal Audit During the year, the Committee assessed the qualification, plays an important role in supporting the Committee to fulfil its expertise and resources, effectiveness and independence of the responsibilities under the Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In addition to the questioning of the external of the Groups business units has an internal audit team, the heads auditor and the Group Finance Director, which is a regular feature of which report to the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
Groupof meetings, the review of the effectiveness of the external audit wide Internal Audit resources, plans and work are overseen by the process was conducted through a questionnaire-based exercise Group Audit Committee and by business unit audit committees.
administered by Group-wide Internal Audit, supplemented by Across the Group, total internal audit headcount stands at 118. interviews with senior finance staff and Committee members.
The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports functionally to the Committee and for management purposes to the Group Chief For the year ended 31 December 2006, the Committee approved Risk Officer.
fees of 10.1 million for audit services and other services supplied During the year, the business unit audit committees reviewed and by its auditor pursuant to relevant legislation.
In addition, the approved internal audits plans, resources and the results of its Committee approved other fees of 2.4 million, not related to audit work.
Reporting to the Group Audit Committee by Group-wide work, and in accordance with the Groups Auditor Independence Internal Audit occurs through formal reports four times during the Policy, these fees were approved prior to work commencing.
year and through private meetings, as well as additional regular These non-audit related fees amounted to 19 per cent of total fees private meetings between the Chairman of the Committee and the paid to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc.
The Committee reviewed the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
non-audit services being provided to the Group by its auditor at regular intervals in 2006.
These services primarily related to The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit comfort and attestation letters, to assurance services associated function through a review carried out by external advisers, and with the implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley, to accounting and through ongoing dialogue with the Group-wide Internal Audit regulatory requirements, and to corporate finance transactions.
An external review of internal audit arrangements and Further information is provided in note I4 on page 235. standards was also conducted in 2006 to ensure that the activities and resources of internal audit are most effectively organised to Financial reporting support the oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
This The Group Audit Committee reviewed the interim and annual review, performed by Deloitte, confirmed that the internal audit financial statements before their submission to the Board, paying function complies with the Institute of Internal Auditors particular attention to critical accounting policies and practices and international standards for the professional practice of internal any changes in them: decisions requiring a major element of auditing and is operating effectively.
judgement: unusual transactions: clarity of disclosures: significant Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 75 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued audit adjustments: the going concern assumption: compliance with Nomination Committee report accounting standards: and compliance with obligations under the Sir David Clementi FCA MBA Chairman Code and other applicable laws and regulations.
Bridget Macaskill James Ross In addition, the Committee is regularly briefed by senior The Nomination Committee is comprised exclusively of management on developments in International Financial independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
Group Chief Executive is also closely involved in the work of the Confidential reporting Committee and is invited to attend and contribute to meetings of At each meeting, the Committee received and reviewed a report the Committee.
The Committee meets as required to consider on calls to the confidential reporting line, which is made available candidates for appointment to the Board and to make to employees to enable them to communicate confidentially on recommendations to the Board in respect of those candidates.
The matters of concern, and actions taken in response to these calls.
Committee, in consultation with the Board, evaluates the balance The Committee also considered whether any internal control of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and makes implications arose from communications received.
No internal control recommendations regarding appointments based on merit and implications were raised from calls to the confidential helpline.
against objective criteria and the requirements of the Groups business.
In appropriate cases, search consultants are used to Audit committee effectiveness identify suitable candidates.
During the year, the Group Audit Committee undertook a formal review of its own effectiveness and the Committee is satisfied, During 2006, the Committee held four meetings resulting in the based on the findings of this review, that it had been operating appointment by the Board of Lord Turnbull as a non-executive as an effective audit committee, meeting all applicable legal and director on 18 May 2006, and Barry Stowe as an executive director regulatory requirements.
Further reviews of the effectiveness on 1 November 2006.
Full biographical details of these new of the Committee will be undertaken annually.
directors are set out on pages 80 and 81.
Remuneration Committee report During the year, the Nomination Committee continued the search Bridget Macaskill Chairman for additional non-executive directors and employed professional Keki Dadiseth FCA search consultants to oversee the initial process.
This process Michael Garrett is ongoing.
Roberto Mendoza Board Committees terms of reference Full biographical details of the members of the Remuneration The full terms of reference of the Group Audit, Remuneration and Committee, including their relevant experience, are set out Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website on pages 80 and 81. at www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of corporategovernance boardcommittees independent non-executive directors of the Company.
While the Hard copies may be obtained upon written request to the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not members, they Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
attend meetings unless they have a conflict of interest.
The Remuneration Committee normally has scheduled meetings at least three times a year and a number of additional meetings, as required, to review remuneration policy and the application of that policy.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration packages of the Chairman and executive directors, and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for a defined population of senior management as determined by the Board.
The Committee agreed principles for the level and structure of remuneration for this population.
During 2006, a total of nine meetings were held.
In framing its remuneration policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions of Schedule A to the Code.
The directors remuneration report prepared by the Board is set out in full on pages 83 to 95.
In preparing the report, the Board has followed the provisions of the Code, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time, in particular by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, the Remuneration Committee consults the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive about the Committees proposals relating to the remuneration of all executive directors.
The Committee has access to professional advice inside and outside the Company.
76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Directors independence, development and re-election The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended by The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Throughout each director during 2006 was as follows: the year all non-executive directors were considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
Full  Board Committee Committee Committee No non-executive director: Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings has been an employee of the Group within the last five years: No.
of meetings in year 11 9 9 4 Sir David Clementi 11 11 n a n a 4 4 has, or has had within the last three years, a material business Philip Broadley 11 11 n a n a n a relationship with the Group: 1 Keki Dadiseth 9 11 3 9 8 9 n a receives remuneration from the Group other than a directors fee: 2 Michael Garrett 10 11 n a 9 9 n a 3 Bridget Macaskill 9 11 n a 9 9 4 4 has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or 4 Clark Manning 10 11 n a n a n a senior employees: 5 Michael McLintock 9 11 n a n a n a represents a significant shareholder: or Roberto Mendoza 11 11 n a 9 9 n a 6 Mark Norbom 8 11 n a n a n a has served on the Board for more than nine years.
7 Kathleen ODonovan 10 11 9 9 n a n a During the year to 28 February 2006, cross-directorships existed Nick Prettejohn 11 11 n a n a n a with Roberto Mendoza and Philip Broadley who both sat on the James Ross 11 11 9 9 n a 4 4 boards of Egg plc and Egg Banking plc Egg, the Companys 8 Rob Rowley 6 6 4 4 n a 2 2 subsidiaries.
Egg plc had its own listing on the London Stock 9 Barry Stowe 2 2 n a n a n a Exchange until 20 February 2006.
The Board does not consider Mark Tucker 11 11 n a n a n a that this relationship in any way affected Mr Mendozas status as 10 Lord Turnbull 5 5 n a n a n a an independent director of the Company, as both Mr Broadley and Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which the individual Mr Mendoza disclosed their interests as director and Chairman of could have attended in the period in which she he was a Board or Committee Egg respectively where appropriate.
owned subsidiary of the Company on 16 May 2006, and on During 2006 there were nine scheduled Board meetings and two additional 29 January 2007 the Company announced that it had entered into Board meetings.
a binding agreement to sell Egg Banking plc.
During 2006 there were eight scheduled Audit Committee meetings and one additional meeting.
During the year, Keki Dadiseth was appointed as a non-executive During 2006 there were three scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings director of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, an and six additional meetings.
Indian company which is owned 26 per cent by Prudential, and 1.
Unable to attend two scheduled Board meetings and certain Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings due to illness and serious illness of a member of Prudential ICICI Trust Limited, an Indian company which is of his immediate family.
owned 49 per cent by Prudential.
The Board does not consider 2.
Unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a family bereavement.
that these appointments in any way affect Mr Dadiseths status 3.
Unable to attend one scheduled and one additional Board meeting held on as an independent director of Prudential.
consecutive days due to a family bereavement.
The Group is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and 4.
Attended all scheduled meetings, but was unable to attend one of the additional Board meetings due to a prior commitment.
the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the independence of those non-executive directors who are also on 5.
Unable to attend one scheduled and one additional Board meeting due to illness.
the boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
Ceased to be a director on 14 December 2006 but not required to attend Board or Board Committee meetings on or after 21 September 2006.
In addition, was unable The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not to attend one earlier additional meeting due to a prior commitment.
preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and 7.
Unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a long-standing prior highest calibre non-executive directors.
Ceased to be a director on 18 May 2006.
The term for which a non-executive director is appointed is usually an initial three-year term, following their election by shareholders 9.
Appointed as a director on 1 November 2006. at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Appointed as a director on 18 May 2006. appointment is reviewed towards the end of this period against performance and the requirements of the Groups businesses.
The Independent professional advice terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors have during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
the right in furtherance of their duties to seek independent All directors are required to submit themselves for election at the professional advice at the Companys expense.
first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Copies of any instructions and advice given by an independent Board, and for re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings professional adviser to a director are supplied by the director to at least every three years, and also when reaching the age of 70. the Company Secretary who will, where appropriate, circulate to The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing other directors sufficient information to ensure that other members tailored induction programmes for new directors and on-going of the Board are kept informed on issues arising which affect the training for all directors.
On appointment, all directors embark Company or any of its subsidiaries.
upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, amongst Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 77 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued other things, the principal bases of accounting for the Groups brokers reports on the Company and the sector, to further results, the role of the audit committee and the ambit of the develop their knowledge and understanding of external views internal audit function.
In addition, they receive detailed briefings about the Company.
The Chairman and some of the non-executive on the Groups principal businesses, its product range, the markets directors provided feedback to the Board on issues raised with in which it operates and the overall competitive environment.
Should major shareholders wish to Other areas addressed include legal issues affecting directors meet newly appointed directors they are welcome to do so.
of financial services companies, the Groups governance Annual General Meeting arrangements, its investor relations programme, as well as The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill its remuneration policies.
Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, A programme of on-going professional development was Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 17 May 2007 at 11.00am.
undertaken for all directors in 2006, which covered a number The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an of sector-specific and business issues as well as legal, accounting important forum for both institutional and private shareholders and regulatory changes and developments.
A cornerstone of the and encourages attendance by all its shareholders.
At its Annual programme was a series of presentations made to the Board General Meeting in 2006, the Company introduced voting on a by the Jackson and PPM America management teams on the US poll on all resolutions, and the voting results, which included all businesses and future market opportunities, during the Board visit votes cast for and against each resolution at the meeting, and all to Chicago and Lansing, Michigan, in June 2006.
A further series proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting of presentations was also given to the Board in November 2006 on and published on the Companys website as soon as practicable the Egg business, when the Board visited Eggs offices in Derby.
The Company also disclosed the number of Throughout their period in office, directors are continually updated votes withheld at the meeting and on its website.
This practice on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and industry-specific provides shareholders present with sufficient information environments in which they operate.
These updates can be in regarding the level of support and opposition to each resolution, the form of written reports to the Board or meetings with senior and ensures all votes cast either at the meeting or through proxies executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
Directors are are included in the result.
As with last years meeting, shareholders also advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and will again be given the opportunity to put questions to the Board obligations as a director of a UK-listed company both in writing on matters relating to the Groups operation and performance.
and in face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary.
Major shareholders The number of accounts on the share register at 31 December Performance evaluation 2006 was 79,881 2005: 60,942.
Further information about shareholdings in the Company is given on page 282.
As at An evaluation was carried out of the performance of the Board and 14 March 2007, the Company had received notification in its Committees for the year 2006, in line with the requirements of accordance with Rule 5.1.
2 R of the UK Listing Authoritys the Code.
The aim was to improve the effectiveness of the Board Disclosure and Transparency Rules from Legal & General and its Committees and the Groups performance.
Investment Management Limited and Barclays PLC of holdings The evaluation of the Board as a whole and of the Chairman was of 4.50 per cent and 3.02 per cent respectively of the Companys carried out by an independent consultant, following a briefing by ordinary share capital at the time of notification.
the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Interviews The shareholder information section on pages 282 and 283 details were conducted with each Board member and the Company further information that may be of interest to shareholders.
Secretary by the independent consultant.
The interview questions were based on the Code and sought views on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the Chairmans performance, and processes Authority to purchase own shares for making specific decisions during the year.
The independent At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, shareholders granted consultant prepared its report based on the interviews with authority to the directors for the purchase by the Company of its directors.
The overall results of the evaluation were presented to own shares in accordance with the relevant provisions of the and reviewed by the Board in February 2007.
This authority will expire at the end of the considered the report of the independent consultant and, without Annual General Meeting to be held in 2007 or 18 months from the the Chairman present, met under the chairmanship of the Senior date granted, whichever is earlier.
Independent Director to review the performance of the Chairman.
In addition, the performance of the non-executive directors and Shares issued under authority to disapply pre-emption rights the Group Chief Executive was evaluated by the Chairman in individual meetings.
The Group Chief Executive individually Details of shares issued during 2006 and 2005 are given in note H11 appraised the performance of each of the executive directors.
Shares issued in 2004 disapplying pre-emption rights amounted to 567,121, which were issued under the Groups share option schemes.
The total of shares issued disapplying pre-emption Relations with shareholders rights amounted to less than 7.5 per cent over the last three years.
As a major institutional investor, the Company is acutely aware of the importance of maintaining good relations with its shareholders.
Financial reporting The Company regularly holds discussions with major shareholders and a programme of meetings took place during 2006.
Board The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the members also regularly receive copies of the latest analysts and performance and financial position of the Group and are responsible 78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report for preparing the financial statements on pages 99 to 249 and business unit discusses material issues and risks and includes the supplementary information on pages 252 to 280.
It is the them, where appropriate, in the regular risk reports to the Group.
responsibility of the auditor to form independent opinions, based on its audit of the financial statements and of the EEV US corporate governance compliance basis supplementary information, and to report its opinions to the Companys shareholders and to the Company respectively.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act was passed by the US Its opinions are given on pages 251 and 281.
Congress in July 2002 to establish new or enhanced standards for corporate accountability in the US.
As a result of the listing of its Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements securities on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company is for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state required to comply with the relevant provisions of the Act as they of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
The criteria applied in apply to foreign private issuers, and has adopted procedures to the preparation of the financial statements are set out in the ensure this is the case.
statement of directors responsibilities on page 250.
In particular, in relation to Section 302 of the Act, which covers After making appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that the disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure Committee has Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the been established reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired forseeable future.
The directors therefore continue to use the by the Group Finance Director and comprising members of senior going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The objectives of this Committee are to: assist the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director Disclosure of information to auditor in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Companys disclosure controls and procedures: directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is and procedures: unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group Finance Director with regard to the scope and content of Companys auditor is aware of that information.
all public disclosures made by the Company which are of material significance to the market or investors: and review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, matters Auditor raised by other components of the disclosure process, including A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor matters to be raised with the Group Audit Committee, the of the Company until the end of the 2008 Annual General Meeting internal auditor or the external auditor of the Companys internal will be put to the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2007. controls to the extent they are relevant to the disclosure process.
In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to support Risk management and internal control the certifications by the Group Chief Executive and the Group The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Finance Director of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures and internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
All business controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
units are required to confirm annually that they have undertaken The provisions of Section 404 of the Act require the Companys risk management during the year as required by the Group Risk management to report on the effectiveness of internal control over Framework, and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F, which is filed systems of internal control.
The results of this review are reported with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
This report on to and reviewed by the Group Audit Committee and the Board, the effectiveness of internal control is required for the first time in and it was confirmed that effective processes of internal control respect of the year ended 31 December 2006, and in common and risk management as required by the Group Risk Framework with other companies which have to comply with this requirement, were in place throughout the period covered by this report, and the Group has undertaken a significant project to document and that they complied with the revised guidance on the Combined test its internal controls over financial reporting in the format Code issued in October 2005 the Turnbull guidance.
Business required by the Act.
The first annual assessment and related report unit internal audit teams execute risk-based audit plans throughout from the external auditor will be included in the Groups annual the Group, from which all significant issues are reported to the report on Form 20-F that will be published in the coming months.
Group Audit Committee as they arise.
The procedures for the management of risk and the systems of internal control operated In addition, the Disclosure Committee has regard to the UK Listing by the Group are described in more detail within the risk Regime, and evaluates whether or not a particular matter requires management section on pages 54 to 66. disclosure to the market.
In line with the guidance on the Combined Code, the certification On behalf of the Board of directors provided above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these cases, the Group satisfies itself on the adequacy of the policies adopted and their operation through the year by its representation in the joint ventures boards.
In line with the Philip Broadley Group Risk Framework and as set out within the section on risk Group Finance Director governance on pages 54 to 57, the management of the relevant 14 March 2007 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 79
