Audit committee report Committee members The current members of the Audit Committee are the independent non-executive directors Giles Coode-Adams chairman, James Barclay and Caroline Burton who all served on the Committee throughout 2006, and Oliver Corbett and Mark Robertshaw who joined the Committee on their appointment to the Board on 7 March 2006.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin served on the Committee until 31 December 2006.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met six times in 2006.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 35.
Role of the Committee The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually.
Its duties include the review of the adequacy of the accounting systems and financial control of the Group, the interim and full year financial statements, and the Groups accounting policies.
The review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is achieved primarily by a review of the work of the Group internal audit department, review of reports produced by the compliance functions, reviews of the half-year and annual financial statements, review of the scope and findings of the annual external audit, and periodic reviews with senior management.
The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis and the frequency of the reviews is determined by an internal risk-based audit programme which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also regularly reviews the resources and authority of the Group internal audit department.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding the rotation of audit partner or change of audit rm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in ofce, their compensation and the scope, quality, and cost-effectiveness of their work.
Whilst the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of KPMG Audit Plc, it asked that a review be undertaken prior to the start of the 2006 audit.
KPMG Audit Plc had been appointed as auditors in May 1999 and it was the Committees view that whilst xed term rotation of audit rms is not desirable, audit arrangements should be put out to tender every five to ten years.
Following this review, a decision was made to appoint  LLP as auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the Audit Committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is anticipated to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditors should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditors to provide certain non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the auditors has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 9 on page 72.
The Audit Committee also approves significant changes to the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Act condential reporting or whistleblowing policy.
During 2006, the Committee received presentations on the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards and in particular the accounting for acquistions and the resulting goodwill and intangible assets, periodic reviews of trust division client les and SIPP investment management.
Presentations were received from the outgoing auditors on the 2005 audit and from the incoming auditors on the audit transition process and on their 2006 audit plans.
Members of the Committee visited the ofces in Bristol, Edinburgh, Geneva, Jersey, Liverpool and London.
On invitation, the finance director, other executive directors, compliance ofcers, senior internal audit staff and the external auditors attend meetings to assist the Committee to full its duties.
The Committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
