Corporate governance report In relation to compliance with the Combined Code this report together with the Directors report states the position at 28 February 2007.
The Combined Code compliance statement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was issued in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The directors believe the Company was in compliance with Section 1 of the Code throughout the year with the following three exceptions: Composition of the Board Following the retirement from the Board of James Lifford on 31 December 2006, the Board has 16 directors of which five 31% are independent non-executive directors.
This continues the re-balancing of the Board towards the Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
It is the policy of the Company to promote to the Board senior practitioners from within the operating subsidiaries.
This does result in a sizeable number of executive directors, making the achievement of the Code target difficult.
Independence of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin The Code requires that audit and remuneration committee members should be independent non-executive directors and that they should be in the majority on the nomination committee.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin was considered to be independent throughout 2006 but it is recognised that his position as a director of a significant shareholder calls his independence into question.
Accordingly, he stood down from the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the year end.
Independence of the chairman on appointment The chairman did not, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in the Code since he had been an employee and executive director of the Company since 1995.
Board meetings The Board meets a minimum of seven times per annum with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
In months where no formal board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief executive is held.
The non-executive directors have regular, informal meetings without the chairman or chief executive present.
Board membership The Board currently consists of an executive chairman, eight other executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
The roles of chairman, Mark Powell, and chief executive, Andy Pomfret, are separated and are clearly dened in writing and agreed by the Board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and the chief executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Board considers that five of the seven non-executive directors are independent, the exceptions being Roy Morris who became non-executive on his retirement as chief executive on 1 October 2004, and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin who is a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia Investments plc.
The non-executive directors participate fully with their executive colleagues in Board meetings and have access to any information they need to perform their duties.
They bring an independent judgement to bear on Group policies and strategies as well as management actions and performance, including resourcing and standards of conduct.
The senior independent non-executive director is Giles Coode-Adams.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, which covers key areas of the Groups business.
These include determination of the Groups aims and the strategy to be adopted in achieving those aims, reviews of budgets and financial statements, company acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and the review of decisions taken by the Boards of subsidiary companies.
33 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Corporate governance report continued Board performance The Board carries out an appraisal of its operation and performance as a whole on an annual basis.
In 2006, an external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, was used to assist with the design of a questionnaire and with the interpretation of the results.
These were discussed by the full Board and an action plan agreed.
Areas for Board focus identied included the formalisation of a conicts of interest policy, providing the Board with greater exposure to executives below Board level, directors and ofcers insurance coverage, and overall Board contribution.
Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken either by the chief executive for the executive directors or chairman for the non-executive directors each year and involves meetings with each director on a one-to one basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Board training The Groups overall objective is to maintain and enhance professional standards for all its employees.
It is particularly necessary to maintain these standards for all staff who fall under the scope of the Financial Services Authority Training and Competence rules.
All directors and staff under the scope of these rules are required to perform a certain number of hours of development training during a year.
This development training is divided into structured and unstructured time.
New directors are given an induction process, which includes time with employees in a number of business areas, attendance at routine meetings, demonstrations of systems and key business processes, and visits to Group ofces.
Board Committees The four principal Board Committees are the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
The other Board Committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered ofce and on the Company website.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the chief executive, Andy Pomfret and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Sue Desborough, Richard Lanyon and Mark Powell.
James Lifford served on the Committee until his retirement on 31 December 2006.
The purpose of the Executive Committee is to monitor every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing basis and to analyse and plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Audit Committee Members of the Audit Committee are Giles Coode-Adams chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett and Mark Robertshaw.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin left the Committee on 31 December 2006.
Details of its work are set out in the Audit Committee report.
Remuneration Committee Members of the Remuneration Committee are Caroline Burton chairman, James Barclay, Giles Coode-Adams, Oliver Corbett and Mark Robertshaw.
Full details of its role are set out in the Remuneration report.
Nomination Committee Members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Giles Coode-Adams, Oliver Corbett, Andy Pomfret and Mark Robertshaw.
Full details of its role are set out in the Nomination committee report.
Other Board issues The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against its directors.
Any director has access to the advice and services of the company secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed and compliance with rules and regulations applicable to the Company.
Any removal or appointment of the company secretary is decided by the Board.
34 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Table 1.
Board meeting and committee attendance in 2006 Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Plc Board Committee Committee Committee Committee J C Barclay 7 7 6 6 4 4 2 2 I M Buckley 7 7 12 12 C M Burton 7 7 6 6 4 4 2 2 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 7 7 6 6 4 4 2 2 P D G Chavasse 7 7 11 12 J G S Coode-Adams 7 7 6 6 4 4 2 2 O R P Corbett 6 6 2 3 2 2 1 1 S M Desborough 7 7 12 12 R P Lanyon 7 7 12 12 Viscount Lifford 7 7 12 12 A T Morris 7 7 R A Morris 6 7 P G Pearson-Lund 6 7 A D Pomfret 7 7 12 12 2 2 G M Powell 7 7 11 12 2 2 R I Smeeton 7 7 M Robertshaw 5 6 3 3 2 2 1 1 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting and strategy meeting Scheduled monthly meeting Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
All regulatory news announcements, press releases and financial reports are available on the Company website.
Following the publication of the interim and full year results, presentations are given to major shareholders, fund managers, analysts and employees.
The presentation packs used and any web-casts are also on the website.
Meetings with major shareholders provide an opportunity to discuss governance and strategy issues, and provide an opportunity to introduce other directors including non-executive directors.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet non-executive directors at the AGM.
Feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
At least 20 business days notice of the AGM is given to allow time for proper consideration of the resolutions by shareholders.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
Every effort is made to ensure that all Board members, and in particular committee chairmen, are at the meeting.
The Board welcomes questions and comments from shareholders.
Votes are taken on a show of hands unless a poll is requested and full details of proxy voting gures are disclosed after the vote and on the website.
Risk management and internal control The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The chairman ensures that Board members receive sufficient and timely information regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties and canvasses the views of non-executive directors upon the adequacy of the management information.
The Risk Management Committee reports to the Board and comprises members of the Executive Committee together with the Group heads of personnel, compliance and internal audit.
This committee is an important element in the Groups overall control system and undertakes a full review of risk within the Group.
It reports on a regular basis to the Board both on the identication of risks and the steps being taken to control or mitigate such risks.
Risk review procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to 28 February 2007.
35 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Corporate governance report continued The other key elements of the Groups overall control systems include: a formal structure of committees and subsidiary company boards where senior staff oversee the operation of the business on a regular basis: an annual budgeting, regular forecasting and monthly financial reporting system for all Group divisions, which enables trends to be evaluated and variances to be acted upon: a dened set of policies and procedures for treasury operations with limits set by the Banking Committee: a condential reporting policy, which encourages employees to raise serious concerns about a colleagues or Group companys practice: and the Audit Committee which, on the Boards behalf, examines the effectiveness of the systems of control as explained above.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in existence in the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006 and has taken account of material developments since the year end.
This process meets the requirements of the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance published in September 1999 and revised in October 2005.
Going concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Regulation Rathbone Investment Management Limited, Rathbone Stockbrokers Limited, Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited and Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services Limited are all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Rathbone Investment Management Limited is registered as an investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Rathbone Trust Company Jersey Limited and its subsidiary companies are regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission, as is Rathbone Investment Management C. I.
Rathbone Insurance Limited, which was incorporated on 3 January 2006 in Guernsey, is regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Rathbone Bank BVI Limited is regulated by the BVI Financial Services Commission.
Rathbones Anguilla Limited is regulated by the Anguilla Financial Services Commission.
Rathbone Stockbrokers Limited is a member rm of the London Stock Exchange.
Rathbone Trust Company SA is a member rm of the Association Romande des Intermdiaries Financiers.
The Board together with the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee have implemented systems and procedures to achieve adherence with the statutes and regulations relevant to each of the Group companies.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
36 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
