Nomination committee report Committee members Members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, Giles Coode-Adams and Andy Pomfret who all served on the Committee throughout 2006, and Oliver Corbett and Mark Robertshaw who joined the Committee on their appointment to the Board on 7 March 2006.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin served on the Committee until 31 December 2006.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in 2006.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 35.
It also met informally on a number of occasions, particularly as part of the director selection process referred to below.
Role of the Committee The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
The Committee takes advice from specialists in the eld of board recruitment.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are used when recruiting new directors.
When considering possible candidates, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
During the year, the Committee recommended the appointment of Oliver Corbett and Mark Robertshaw as new non-executive directors to the Board.
In this instance, a specialist non-executive search rm was used rather than open advertising.
The Committee was keen to improve the balance of executive and non-executive directors, and to refresh and augment the level of financial expertise, particularly on the Audit Committee.
Both have brought considerable knowledge and experience to the Board and its Committees.
The Committee also reviewed the board composition and balance, succession plans for executive and non-executive directors, and short-term cover arrangements in the event of the incapacity of an executive director.
Non-executive committee members are exposed to senior management below board level during visits to Group ofces, Audit Committee and strategy day presentations, and attendance at Rathbone Investment Management Limited board meetings.
The Committee also discussed the retirement and re-election of directors at the AGM.
All directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every three years.
A non-executive director is not appointed for a xed term but would not normally serve as a director for more than nine years.
47 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
