Business review Governance Accounts 68 Corporate governance Compliance with the Combined Code The Board demonstrates its commitment to the strategic direction and The Group continues to be committed to the principles of corporate control of the Group by scheduling a series of meetings in the year.
It can governance contained in the Combined Code for which the Board is meet as necessary outside of this schedule to consider any urgent matters accountable.
In the year ended 31 December 2006 a number of changes to that may arise.
It sets the strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring the Group Board had an impact on the Boards full compliance with the code.
sufficient financial and human resources are in place to meet those aims.
The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that its Board changes in the year: obligations to clients, employees, suppliers, the community and other key Rod Aldridge stepped down as Executive Chairman to Non-Executive stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board has a formal schedule of Chairman in March 2006 and retired from the Board on 31 July 2006 matters specifically reserved to it for decision including the Groups business Eric Walters was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman with effect strategy, annual budget, annual and interim financial results, dividends and from 1 August 2006 major corporate activities.
The Board also considers regular reports from Simon Pilling was promoted to become an Executive Director of the the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Joint Chief Operating Group Board, having previously been a member of the Divisional Executive Officers.
The Board is provided with complete, timely and relevant Board, with effect from 1 August 2006 information to ensure that informed judgements are made in pursuit of the Groups objectives.
Bill Grimsey was appointed as Non-Executive Director with effect from 9 October 2006.
The Board also reviews the performance of management in meeting business objectives, plans the succession of key executives, and determines For each appointment, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous appropriate remuneration levels through the Remuneration Committee, a recruitment process, led by the Nomination Committee and, where committee of the Board.
The operational management of the Group is appropriate, with the assistance of independent external search consultants.
delegated to the Divisional Executive Board, which meets monthly.
Its The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 composition is set out in the Divisional Executive Board section page 65.
I of the Combined Code except in 2 circumstances: in respect of the The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independence of the Board and in respect of the number of independent constructively and independently the business development plans that are non-executive directors on the Audit and Remuneration Committees proposed by executive management and monitor the performance of the between 1 August to 9 October 2006, as follows: management teams in the delivery of agreed business objectives and targets.
3.2 following the retirement of Rod The Non-Executive Chairman encourages and engages in an open dialogue Aldridge as Non-Executive Chairman on 31 July 2006, Eric Walters was with Non-Executive Directors in particular, who are at liberty to meet with appointed as Non-Executive Chairman to the Board a Non-Executive him as a group or individually as they feel fit, without the presence of Director of The Capita Group Plc since January 2001 with effect from Executive Directors.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained.
1 August 2006 and on 9 October 2006, Bill Grimsey was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Board.
We recognise that with 4 Executive Board composition Directors, excluding the Non-Executive Chairman, the Board does not fully The Directors acknowledge the need to segregate the responsibility for comply with the Combined Code regarding the balance of the Board.
operating the Board from the management of the underlying business.
However, the Board believes that the current composition of the Board is Consequently, the roles of Non-Executive Chairman Eric Walters and more in line with the principles of the code as it is led by a Non-Executive Chief Executive Paul Pindar are separated.
Chairman and its composition remains suitable for the nature and size of The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Eric Walters: 3 further the Group.
We believe that the collective skills, experience and approach to independent Non-Executive Directors, Peter Cawdron Senior Independent running the business is appropriate for driving the Group forward and Director, Martina King and Bill Grimsey, 4 Executive Directors: Paul Pindar, achieving the Groups goals.
We constantly review the composition of the Chief Executive, Gordon Hurst, Group Finance Director and Company Board to ensure that it continues to meet the needs of the Group.
Secretary and Paddy Doyle and Simon Pilling, Joint Chief Operating Officers.
The Code recommends 3 independent Non-Executive Directors be The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available, as necessary, appointed to the Audit Committee C. 3.1 and the Remuneration to lead meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Committee B.
Eric Walters had served on both committees.
Directors and or the Chairman being present and meet with shareholders Therefore, following his appointment as the Groups Chairman, both to understand any concerns.
Biographies of the Directors can be found on committees comprised of 2 Non-Executive Directors for the period from Ipages 64-65.
This position was resolved with the appointment of Bill Grimsey to the Audit and Remuneration Committees Director induction and professional development on 9 October 2006.
However, the Audit and Remuneration Committees Simon Pilling received an appropriate induction programme on joining did not meet during this period.
Bill Grimsey received a comprehensive induction programme involving appropriate documentation, meetings and visits to The Boards Non-Executive Directors, Peter Cawdron, Eric Walters, Capita businesses with other Directors, attendance at Divisional Board Martina King and Bill Grimsey are regarded as independent and free meetings and discussions with advisers and senior management from across from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere the Group.
All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters For the purposes of the Combined Code, Peter Cawdron has served on relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various the Board for 9 years.
The Board is satisfied that Peter Cawdron committees of the Board, at the Groups expense.
The Company Secretary, remains independent with strong financial skills and a good knowledge Gordon Hurst, who is also Group Finance Director, is available to all Directors of the business and its sectors and continues to enhance the overall and he is responsible for ensuring that all Group Board procedures are balance of the Board.
Board responsibilities and effectiveness The decision to combine the roles of Finance Director and Company Secretary The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting the direction was taken when Capita was a smaller entity and as the Group has evolved of the business and monitoring the Groups ongoing affairs.
It is also this approach has been regularly reviewed and has proven to work well.
responsible for ensuring an effective internal control environment that Capita owns a company secretarial business that provides services to identifies and manages appropriately the risks associated with the business numerous private and quoted companies and a team from this business Ipages 27 and 37. directly supports Gordon Hurst in his role as Company Secretary.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 69 Corporate governance During the year, the Directors received appropriate ongoing briefings and The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external information, including updates on governance and regulatory issues, to auditors, and it advised the Board on the appointment, independence and enable them to perform their roles.
They also attended external courses objectivity of the external auditors and on their remuneration both for where appropriate.
statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Board performance evaluation Committee annually performs an independent assessment of the suitability At the January 2007 Board meeting the Board reviewed the report from and performance of the external auditors in making its recommendation to the board performance evaluation process carried out for 2006, the the Board for their re-appointment.
outcome of which was positive.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual internal audit The various Committees repeated the self-assessment exercise carried programme for the Group, to ensure that the business risk management and out last year in order to assess whether their terms of reference had been internal audit functions are adequately sponsored and resourced.
It also satisfactorily fulfilled and how their processes and methods could be monitors the resourcing levels and performance of the Groups Financial improved.
The performance of individual Executive Directors is appraised annually At the meeting to review the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts, the by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by the Chairman is reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by Peter Groups external auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and Cawdron, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
independence of the external auditors is safeguarded.
There is a policy in The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by the place to monitor and approve the use of the auditors for non-audit services.
Non-Executive Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 6 on page 90.
The lead Non-Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Non-Executive partner is rotated on a 5 year basis and, consequently, a new lead partner was Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
appointed for the 2006 audit process.
Re-appointment Remuneration Committee All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the Directors Remuneration Report onIpages 71-75. their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than 3 years in accordance with the Combined Code.
The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit The Non-Executive Chairman has, following the evaluation process Committees are displayed in the investor centre atIwww.
co. uk described above, considered the performance of Paul Pindar and Peter Board and committee members, frequency of meetings and attendance Cawdron, who are subject to re-election at the 2007 Annual General During 2006 the Board met 9 times, excluding ad hoc meetings solely to Meeting and is satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate deal with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the a clear commitment to the role.
Remuneration Committee met 3 times during the year.
The Audit Nomination Committee Committee met 4 times during the year.
Attendance is recorded in the The Nomination Committee comprised Peter Cawdron Chairman, table below.
Eric Walters and Martina King throughout the year and Bill Grimsey from Any Directors non-attendance at Board Meetings or meetings of the Audit, October 2006.
The Committee reports to the Board and its duty is to seek Remuneration or Nomination Committees was due to illness or an absence suitably skilled and experienced candidates to be Non-Executive Directors previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or the and ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to Chairman of the relevant committee.
Scheduled Nomination Remuneration Audit Due to Rod Aldridges retirement from the Board, the Nomination Committee Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings met during the year under review for the purposes of appointing a NonExecutive Chairman, an Executive and a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
Eric Walters 8 9 3 3 3 3 3 4 A rigorous review, taking into account the need for progressive refreshing Paul Pindar 7 9 of the Board, was carried out.
Core competencies and attributes required Gordon Hurst 7 9 to fill the roles were set out.
Independent external search consultants were Paddy Doyle 8 9 engaged, where appropriate, to identify potential candidates.
It should be Simon Pilling 3 3 noted that Eric Walters excused himself from the discussions regarding the Peter Cawdron 8 9 3 3 3 3 4 4 consideration of his nomination and appointment as Non-Executive Chairman.
Martina King 9 9 3 3 3 3 4 4 Bill Grimsey 2 2 1 1 Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprised the Non-Executive Directors throughout Rod Aldridge the year and was chaired by Peter Cawdron.
He has significant and recent retired July 2006 4 6 relevant financial experience.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held in the period in which the director was a by invitation, by the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group member of the Board Committee.
Finance Director, Group Compliance Director, Head of Risk Management Simon Pilling and Bill Grimseys Board attendance following their appointments in August 2006 and by representatives of the external auditors.
Bill Grimsey was also appointed to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee which have not met since his appointment.
At their meetings, the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters including the half-year and annual accounts Dialogue with institutional shareholders prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular The Board encourages and seeks to build up a mutual understanding of on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders.
As part of significant areas of judgement that materially impact reported results.
It also this process, the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance monitored the internal controls that are operated by management to ensure Director and Joint Chief Operating Officers make regular presentations and the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any issues of concern, to obtain feedback and to consider Corporate Governance issues.
All the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders to understand their views more fully.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the Senior Non-Executive Director are personally available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 70 Corporate governance The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day responsibility a framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business for managing shareholder communications and always acts in close risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, regulatory and fraud.
A Disclosure Committee consisting of the The framework also includes specific provision for risk-based due diligence Corporate Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group Finance in respect of business acquisitions and new customer contracts.
Exposure to Director ensures all appropriate communications are made to the London business risks is monitored as an integral part of the monthly challenge to Stock Exchange and shareholders.
Shareholders can also access up-to-date business results discussed above and by the Group Audit Committee information through the investor centre section of the Groups website.
the risk framework is supplemented in certain of the Groups businesses, A telephone helpline, 0870 162 3100, provides a contact point directly to including all financial services related business streams, by a number of the Groups registrars.
formally constituted local boards, which in turn are underpinned by All members of the Board, including Non-Executive Directors, receive a dedicated risk committees.
These provide an appropriate means to report on any significant discussions with shareholders and the feedback routinely monitor the risk profile of these businesses, including regulatory that follows the half yearly presentations to investment analysts and risks, and for proposed mitigating actions to be challenged and tracked shareholders is also circulated.
All brokers reports and analysts briefings the risk management framework is monitored and developed as required are circulated to Directors.
by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function, in conjunction with the The Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
Group Compliance function, to ensure that it remains appropriate to Directors, including the chairmen of the various committees, are present business requirements and consistent with best practice to answer any questions from shareholders.
The Group uses the Annual the Group Risk and Business Assurance function reports to the Group General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourages Finance Director and independently to the Group Audit Committee.
In addition to independently facilitating the Groups risk management Social and environmental responsibility framework, it delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide Details of how we manage our social and environmental responsibilities can assurance on the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating be found onIpages 54-57. across the business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, as determined by the Group risk framework, and Internal control the independent view of those risks taken by the Group Risk and Business The Group Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Assurance function and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, inter alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or in addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by the disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of Group Compliance function reporting through the Group Finance Director financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such a and independently to the Group Audit Committee.
The Group Compliance system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to team, in conjunction with dedicated Compliance teams within the relevant achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not businesses, independently monitor regulatory compliance by way of absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
There is an risk-based work programmes and support operations in identifying and ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks mitigating regulatory risks as an integral part of the Groups risk framework faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year under both the Group Compliance function and the Group Risk and Business review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Assurance function routinely appraise the Groups senior management This process is regularly reviewed by the Group Board.
The Groups key and the Group Audit Committee of their work programmes and findings.
internal control procedures include the following: The Group Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of the Divisional Executive Board has responsibility to set, communicate and internal control.
The key mechanisms used by the Group Board to achieve monitor the application of policies, procedures and standards in areas this include regular reports from the Divisional Executive Board: periodic including operations, finance, legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, updates from the Audit Committee based on its review of risk management, human resources and health and safety, information security and property business assurance and compliance reports by the relevant Group functions: management and corporate social responsibility and the environment discussions with and reports from the external auditors and other advisors authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions that and periodic reports from relevant Regulators.
In addition, the Divisional make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing Directors Executive Directors and Divisional Finance Directors provide annual within limits set by the Divisional Executive Board under powers delegated confirmation that the Divisions internal controls and systems are designed: by the Group Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior to provide accurate financial information positions within the Group, other than Group Board appointments, requires the approval of the Divisional Executive Board.
It establishes key to adequately safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of the Groups operational, functional and financial reporting standards for application assets across the whole Group.
These are supplemented by operating standards to ensure that provision is made for all amounts known to be irrecoverable set by local management teams, as required for the type of business and at the balance sheet date geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit to ensure that accruals are accurately stated and, to the extent that they comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual are known, all potential liabilities have been notified.
business unit level and summarised at the Divisional and Group level.
Financial plans are reviewed and approved by both the Divisional Executive At several of its meetings during the year, the Group Board considered the Board and the Group Board.
Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous means by which it monitors the effectiveness of internal controls and budgetary control beyond specified levels and detailed written proposals concluded that it was satisfied with the process and its compliance with the have to be submitted to the Group Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the the subject of appropriate consideration, review and approval by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Group Board results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly by executive members of the Group Board on a Group-wide basis at the business unit level each month The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
