Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31 Corporate governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Group operates a Delegated Authority Policy which specifies how In respect of 2006, the Group is required to comply with the Principles executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and on to and Provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code published in 2003 other executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences set out specific and to provide an explanation where it has not done so.
In June 2006, limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting and other a revised version of the Combined Code was published.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar Group was not required to comply with this during 2006.
Additional process of delegation is in place within their area of responsibility.
disclosure in respect of how the Group already meets the requirements The Board met 11 times during 2006.
Further details on the attendance of the revised Code is provided below.
of directors at Board and Committee meetings are provided on page 34.
Throughout 2006, the Group has complied with the Principles and The Directors Provisions of the Combined Code except that the Group has not appointed The Board comprises five non-executive directors and four executive a senior independent director nor is there a majority of independent directors.
Details of the directors can be found on page 26.
David Paige directors on the Nomination Committee.
The non-executive directors resigned as a director on 31 December 2006 and Simon Lee was have a unanimous view that the appointment of a senior independent appointed as a director with effect from 1 January 2007. director is not appropriate at this time.
All non-executive directors are encouraged to communicate directly with executive directors outside In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the formal meetings and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board.
Combined Code, the directors submit themselves for re-appointment at Notwithstanding the composition of the Nomination Committee, all the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and for re-election non-executive directors are involved in any process for the appointment every three years thereafter.
Simon Lee will therefore be proposed for of an additional director.
re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the directors retiring and proposed for re-election are George Culmer, The Board Noel Harwerth, Edward Lea, Malcolm Le May and John Maxwell.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the Company and the Group in a manner that is in the best When appointing new directors, regard is given to the size of the Board interests of the shareholders as a whole and is consistent with good corporate and the balance of executive and non-executive directors as well as the governance practices, and for ensuring that in carrying out its duties the skills and experience already represented by the existing Board members, Company and the Group meets legal and regulatory requirements.
The and those which would be desirable on the Board going forward.
The report Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA for of the Nomination Committee, including a description of its duties, is set ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, At all times during the year, at least half of the Board, excluding the which can only be amended by the Board itself and which is reviewed Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.
Matters reserved to the Board include: have been determined by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors both individually and Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy, collectively without the executive directors being present.
The Chairman Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure, met the independence criteria of the Combined Code on his appointment in 2003.
There have been no changes to his external commitments since Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite, then which might affect his responsibilities to the Group.
None of the Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements, executive directors serve on the board of another FTSE 100 company.
Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets, Directors have access to the services and advice of the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary and, in addition, may take independent Changes to the Groups capital structure, professional advice at the expense of the Company in furtherance of Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant changes their duties.
to accounting practices or policies.
Directors responsibilities The separate roles of the Chairman, John Napier, and the Group CEO, The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records Andy Haste, have been clearly defined in written role statements which are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable accuracy, have been approved by the Board.
the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, liaising as necessary and detect fraud and other irregularities.
with the Group CEO on developments between Board meetings, ensuring that the Group CEO and his executive management team have appropriate They must present financial statements for each financial year, in objectives, and that their performance against those objectives are reviewed.
accordance with applicable law, accounting standards and regulations, The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for the executive management which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company of the Group, and for liaising with the Chairman and keeping him informed and Group and of the profit or loss and cashflows for that period.
The on all material matters.
directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Royal & SunAlliance 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued and have prepared financial statements for the Company in accordance reports from risk specialists both internal and external to the Group, and with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial reviews Group level risk management information.
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulations.
managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and In preparing such financial statements the directors are required to: their compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent The Board considers that collectively this reporting framework gives it basis using reasonable and prudent judgement, sufficient information upon which to monitor the systems of internal control and to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been Code.
The Board therefore considers that there is an ongoing process followed and explain any material departures, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared Group, that it has been in place for 2006 and up to the date of approval in accordance with IFRS, of the Annual Report & Accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
Further details on the overall risk framework is set out on pages 22 to 23.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Financial control framework In 2006, the Company voluntarily delisted from the New York Stock Professional development and training Exchange and terminated its ADR programme.
In January 2007, the On appointment, new directors are subject to a formal induction Company terminated its US SEC registration and its reporting obligations programme and receive training and guidance on their duties and to the SEC also ceased at that time.
As a result of the SEC deregistration, responsibilities.
Continuing professional development is offered to the Company is no longer required to be compliant with the US Sarbanes all directors which includes educational and business awareness Oxley Act 2002.
However, the elements of Sarbanes Oxley compliance presentations.
which have added value will be carried forward in the Groups financial Board effectiveness control framework.
In 2006, the Board undertook an annual evaluation of its performance to Corporate governance framework assess how well the Board, its committees and the directors are performing.
The Groups corporate governance framework describes and prescribes how The review included the use of a comprehensive questionnaire.
the Group is directed and managed by setting out the matters reserved Internal controls for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board and management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems committees, role statements, policies, systems, procedures and controls.
Implementation and maintenance of the Committees internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors Specific responsibilities of the Board have been delegated to the and senior management.
The performance of internal control systems Group Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Investment and Board Risk is reviewed regularly by the Group Audit Committee and the boards of Committees.
The role of the Investment, Board Risk, Group Audit subsidiary companies.
and Nomination Committees are set out below and the role of the The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups system of Remuneration Committee is set out in the remuneration report on pages internal controls in order to safeguard the Groups assets and shareholders 35 to 36.
Details of the Chairmen and membership of the Group Audit, investment.
This system includes governance, financial controls, the risk Nomination, Remuneration and Investment Committees are shown on management framework and operational, regulatory and compliance page 34 together with details of attendance at meetings.
The systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May, meets twice the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide a year and comprises all non-executive directors, Andy Haste and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial George Culmer.
The Committee assists the Board in setting the Groups misstatement or loss.
Following the review of the system of internal investment strategy and monitors the execution of that strategy and control, the Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary to the Groups investment performance.
rectify any significant failings or weaknesses identified as a result of the review have been, or are being taken.
The Board Risk Committee, which meets quarterly, was chaired during the year by David Paige who resigned from the Board on 31 December 2006.
The Board, through the Group Audit Committee, receives reports from the George Culmer has since assumed the role of Committee Chairman.
The Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance and his team on the integrity Committee comprises the Group CEO and the Chief Financial Officer and of the control environment and also receives reports from the external other members of executive management.
The Committee is authorised auditors based upon their audit work.
The Group Audit Committee also by the Board under its terms of reference to manage all risks faced by receives reports on the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory the Group.
The Board-approved Group risk appetite is set by reference compliance.
The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, considers Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 33 to policies, control limits and other mechanisms.
The Committees External auditors principal duties include: The Committee meets regularly with internal and external auditors without management present.
The partner of the Groups external Defining the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board, auditors, who is responsible for the external audit, attends meetings Approval of policy and minimum standards that are consistent with regularly.
Each year, the Committee considers the performance of the risk appetite, the external auditors prior to a resolution on their re-appointment and remuneration at the AGM.
Ensuring that risks that are outside the appetite are mitigated in an appropriate manner, During the year,  LLP were, on a number of occasions, engaged as advisors.
In order to maintain their independence, Overseeing and challenging the Groups risk management processes.
such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed The role of the Group Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee by the Committee.
This gives guidance to businesses within the Group are set out below.
on the appropriateness of engaging the Groups external auditors as advisors and sets down the procedures to be followed to authorise Report of the Group Audit Committee such an engagement.
The Committee is satisfied that this protocol has Membership been followed and there are no matters that would compromise the The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of independence of the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory directors in 2006 are shown in the table on page 34.
 LLP have also considered their position is comprised of independent non-executive directors who have recent and have confirmed their independence to the Company in writing.
The Company has enjoyed a long standing and constructive relationship In 2006, the Committee met six times.
The Chairman, Group CEO, with its current auditor  LLP.
It is, however, our Chief Financial Officer, Director Regulatory Risk and Compliance and policy to periodically review major contracts.
Following an extensive the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance are regular attendees.
review earlier in the year, the Board has accepted the Committees Other members of executive management are also invited to attend recommendation that  LLP stand down as from time to time.
The outcome of meetings are reported to the Board auditors of the Company and that a resolution be put to the 2007 AGM and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
for the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as external auditors in Principal duties their place.
The Committees principal duties are as follows: Whistleblowing To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial reporting It is the Committees responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in the process, Group whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy deals with employees who wish to raise serious concerns in good faith, and either do not feel To monitor compliance, comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not satisfied To have oversight of internal and external audit functions, with the local management response.
They can raise their concerns with the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance, who will either investigate To manage the systems of internal controls, or arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are offered such To review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group, safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their personal integrity and, where possible, identity.
To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management.
Report of the Nomination Committee Membership The Group Audit Committee has unrestricted access to Company The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of directors documents and information, as well as to employees of the Company in 2006 are shown in the table on page 34.
The Committee met twice and the external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Group Audit Committee, which explain Principal duties its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board of Directors, are The Committees principal duties are to review the structure, size and available on the Companys website at www.
com or composition of the Board and to evaluate the directors skills, knowledge on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
It has access to external recruitment consultants in order Internal audit to help fill any vacancies.
The Committee considers the leadership needs The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and effectiveness and succession planning of the Board when making decisions on new are monitored and reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee is responsible appointments.
Resolutions to re-appoint directors at the AGM are not for ensuring that adequate access to information and resources is given proposed automatically, but are subject to the approval of the Board, to the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance who is responsible for taking into account the recommendations of the Committee.
Internal Audit within the Group and for approving the appointment of The terms of reference of the Committee, which explains its role and the and removal of the holder from that position.
authority delegated to it by the directors, are available on the Companys website at www.
com or on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Royal & SunAlliance 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued Board and board committee membership and attendance in 2006 Directors attending Board and board committee meetings during 2006 were: Board Group Audit Investment Nomination Remuneration Notes Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 1 11 10 6228 George Culmer 11 10 1 Noel Harwerth 11 6 2 Andy Haste 11 10 1 Edward Lea 11 6 2 7 Malcolm Le May 10 2 7 John Maxwell 11 6227 Bridget McIntyre 10 John Napier 2 11 2 2 David Paige 11 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes 1.
In addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and other executive directors regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
John Napier attended one meeting of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Annual General Meeting The AGM Notice is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and contains separate resolutions on each substantive issue, including a resolution to adopt the Annual Report & Accounts.
All directors are requested to attend each AGM.
The Chairman and the chairmen of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees make themselves available to take questions from shareholders.
The Company has arrangements in place with its Registrars to ensure that all proxy votes received are accurately counted.
The results of proxies lodged on each resolution, including votes for, against and withheld, are published on the Groups website at www.
In accordance with best practice, these results are also announced to the London Stock Exchange.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
In addition, investor relations events are held during the year to increase shareholders understanding of the business.
Going concern The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, having given consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed in the financial statements, and have therefore prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
By order of the Board Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 7 March 2007
