Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate diversity of its businesses.
The directors provide the Group with governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks of activities.
The Board Committees contain directors with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the company undue reliance is placed on any individual.
has complied with all of the provisions of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in July The non-executive directors combine broad business and 2003 the Code except in relation to the authority reserved to commercial experience with independent and objective the Board to make the final determination of the remuneration of judgement.
The balance between non-executive and executive the executive directors and in relation to the appointment of the directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective Chairman of the Board to the Remuneration Committee, which are leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across explained in the paragraph headed Remuneration Committee.
The names and biographies of all Board members are set out on pages 102 and 103.
The company has also complied with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees in all material respects.
The composition of the Board is subject to continuing review and the provisions of the Code will be taken into account in Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act, specific respect of the balance of the Board.
The Code requires the standards of corporate governance and business and financial Board to determine whether its non-executive members are disclosures apply to companies, including the company, with independent.
securities registered in the US.
Section 404 of the Act concerns internal control over financial reporting and the Group is required The Board comprises nine independent and seven nonto comply with it for the first time for the financial year ended independent directors including executive directors, in 31 December 2006.
The company complies with section 404 addition to the Chairman.
Bob Scott has been nominated as and all other applicable sections of the Act.
Board of directors The Board considers that all non-executive directors are The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the company.
independent for the purposes of the Code, with the exception It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the company of Bud Koch who was formerly Chairman, President and Chief and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational Executive Officer of Charter One Financial, Inc. which was performance.
The Board approves Group strategy and monitors acquired by Citizens Financial Group, Inc. in 2004. performance.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs reserved Re-election of directors to it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually.
At each Annual General Meeting, one third of the directors retire and offer themselves for re-election and each director The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are must stand for re-election at least once every three years.
Any distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
non-executive directors who have served for more than nine The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective years will also stand for annual re-election and the Board will engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive consider their independence at that time.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for all election of directors is subject to prior review by the Board.
Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the development of The names of directors standing for re-election at the 2007 policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to Annual General Meeting are contained on page 106 and further the Group Chief Executive and other executive directors.
information will be given in the Chairmans letter to shareholders in relation to the companys Annual General Meeting.
All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the financial and risk management of the company.
Information, induction and professional development Meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion.
All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters.
All directors have access to the advice and The Board met nine times during 2006 and was supplied with services of the Group Secretary who is responsible to the comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and covering the Groups principal business activities.
Members of that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In executive management attend and make regular presentations addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain at meetings of the Board.
independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Board, including visits to the Groups major businesses and non-executive directors of the company.
meetings with directors and senior management.
The induction is tailored to the directors specific requirements.
Directors are Board balance and independence advised of appropriate training and professional development The Board currently comprises the Chairman, six executive opportunities and undertake training and professional directors and ten non-executive directors.
The Board functions development they consider necessary in assisting them to carry effectively and efficiently, and is considered to be of an out their duties as a director.
appropriate size in view of the scale of the company and the 108 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Performance evaluation Audit Committee The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous annual All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonevaluation of its own performance and that of its committees executive directors.
The Audit Committee holds at least five and individual directors.
The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 112 and 113.
The performance evaluation of the operation and effectiveness of the Board, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee was undertaken in the autumn of 2006.
This was The members of the Remuneration Committee comprise conducted internally using a detailed questionnaire and individual independent non-executive directors together with the meetings with each director.
Amongst the areas reviewed were Chairman of the Board.
In June 2006, the FRC issued a the role of the Board, Board composition, Board meetings and revised Combined Code the revised Code which applies to processes, Board performance and reporting, external reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
The relationships and Board Committees.
A separate performance company has adopted provision B.
2.1. of the revised Code evaluation of the Audit Committee was also undertaken internally early and appointed the Chairman of the Board as a member in late 2006 using a detailed questionnaire and meetings with of the Remuneration Committee as the company considers him Audit Committee members and attendees.
to have been independent on appointment as Chairman.
In that regard the provisions of the Code have not been complied The report on the Board evaluation, which was designed to assist with.
The Remuneration Committee holds at least three the Board in further improving its performance, was considered meetings each year.
and discussed by the Board as a whole and a separate report on the outcomes of the evaluation of the Audit Committee was The Remuneration Committee is responsible for assisting the also considered and discussed by the Board.
Careful Board in discharging its responsibilities and making all relevant consideration was given by all directors to the composition of disclosures in relation to the formulation and review of the the Board to assist the Nominations Committee in its future Groups executive remuneration policy.
The Board also considered the range and balance of Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the its activities and was content that it was allocating appropriate remuneration arrangements for the executive directors and the time to such key matters as monitoring business performance, Chairman.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained risk appetite and strategy.
Taking into account their review and deliberations the directors Responsibility for determining the remuneration of executive have concluded that the Board is effective in meeting its directors has not been delegated to the Remuneration objectives and fulfilling its duties and obligations.
The directors Committee, and in that sense the provisions of the Code have are also satisfied that each of the Boards Committees Audit, not been complied with.
The Board as a whole reserves the Remuneration and Nominations carries out its delegated authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of duties effectively.
directors as it considers that this two stage process allows greater consideration and evaluation and is consistent with the In addition, each director discussed his or her own performance unitary nature of the Board.
No director is involved in decisions as a director and their Board evaluation with the Chairman.
The regarding his or her own remuneration.
senior independent director canvassed the views of the executive directors and met with the non-executive directors as a group Nominations Committee without the Chairman present to consider the Chairmans The Nominations Committee comprises independent nonperformance.
The Board is satisfied that each director continues executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of to contribute effectively to the Board and the Group and the Board.
The Nominations Committee meets as required.
demonstrates commitment to his or her role as a director.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the Board Board Committees in the formal selection and appointment of directors.
It considers In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the potential candidates and recommends appointments of new Board has established a number of Board Committees with directors to the Board.
The appointments are based on merit and particular responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and against objective criteria, including the time available to, and the membership are reviewed on a regular basis.
The names and commitment which will be required of, the potential director.
biographies of all Board Committee members are set out on pages 102 and 103.
In addition, the Nominations Committee considers succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and nonThe terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and executive directors.
The Nominations Committee takes into Nominations Committees and the standard terms and account the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are of contacts which are anticipated to be needed on the Board available on the Groups website www.
com and copies in the future.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and nonare available on request.
executive directors meet to consider executive succession planning.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 109 Governance Corporate governance continued Meetings Relations with shareholders The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit, The company communicates with shareholders through the Remuneration and Nominations Committees and individual Annual Report and by providing information in advance of the attendance by members is shown below.
Individual shareholders can raise matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Group at any time throughout the year.
Shareholders are given Total number of meetings the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting in 2006 98 5 2 or submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen of the Number of meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are attended in 2006 available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Sir George Mathewson 1 4 Communication with the companys largest institutional Sir Tom McKillop 2 9 2 2 shareholders is undertaken as part of the companys investor Sir Fred Goodwin 9 relations programme.
During the year, the directors received Mr Buchan 9 8 5 copies of analysts reports and a monthly report from the Mr Cameron 3 7 Groups investor relations department which includes an Dr Currie 9 5 analysis of share price movements, the Groups performance against the sector, and key broker comments.
In addition, Mr Fish 8 information on major investor relations activities and changes Mr Fisher 3 7 to external ratings is provided.
The senior independent director Mr Friedrich 4 62 would be available to shareholders if concerns could not be Mr Hunter 5 98 1 addressed through the normal channels.
The arrangements Mr Koch 8 used to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the Mrs Kong 6 9 3 views of major shareholders are considered as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Mr MacHale 8 8 Mr Pell 9 The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Sir Steve Robson 7 7 and, if appropriate, the senior independent director Mr Scott 9 5 2 communicate shareholder views to the Board as a whole.
Mr Sutherland 6 8 2 2 The Board commissions a survey of investor perceptions Mr Watt 7 1 annually.
The survey is undertaken on behalf of the Board by Mr Whittaker 8 8 independent consultants and the outcomes of the study are considered by the Board.
Notes: 1 Sir George Mathewson retired from the Board on 28 April 2006.
2 Sir Tom McKillop was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 27 September 2006.
3 Mr Cameron and Mr Fisher were appointed to the Board on 1 March 2006.
4 Mr Friedrich was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2006 and to the Audit Committee on 1 July 2006.
5 Mr Hunter was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 1 July 2006.
6 Mrs Kong and Mr Sutherland were appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2006.
7 Mr Watt resigned from the Board on 31 January 2006.
8 Mr Whittaker was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
110 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Internal control Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and as of 31 December 2006. regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal over financial reporting as of 31 December 2006 based on the control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, material misstatement, fraud or losses.
management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2006, the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective.
The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced The process employed by the Group to undertake its by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended assessment and the conclusion regarding effectiveness have 31 December 2006 and to 28 February 2007, the date the been audited by the Groups auditors who have given an directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This process is unqualified opinion.
regularly reviewed by the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Managements report on the Groups internal control over Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial financial reporting will be filed with the US Securities and Reporting Council in October 2005.
Exchange Commission SEC at the same time as the Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee.
Disclosure controls and procedures Executive management committees or boards of directors in As required by US regulations, the effectiveness of the each of the Groups businesses receive quarterly reports on companys disclosure controls and procedures as defined in significant risks facing their business and how they are being the rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 have controlled.
These reports are combined and submitted to the been evaluated.
This evaluation has been considered and Board as quarterly risk and control assessments.
Additional approved by the Board which has instructed the Group Chief details of the Groups approach to risk management are given Executive and the Group Finance Director to certify that as at in the Risk management section of the Operating and 31 December 2006, the companys disclosure controls and financial review on pages 79 to 100.
The Audit Committee also procedures were adequate and effective and designed to receives regular reports from Group Risk Management and ensure that material information relating to the company and its Group Internal Audit.
In addition, the Groups independent consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by auditors report to the Audit Committee details of any others within those entities.
significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions Changes in internal controls and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to There was no change in the companys internal control over regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to Supervision and regulation section on pages 246 to 249. materially affect, the companys internal control over financial reporting.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 111 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement The members of the Audit Committee are Archie Hunter of the external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, Chairman, Colin Buchan, Bill Friedrich since July 2006, Joe which takes into account relevant legislation regarding the MacHale and Sir Steve Robson.
All members of the Audit provision of such services by an external audit firm.
The Audit Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee reviews the policy annually and prospectively Committee holds at least five meetings each year, two of which approves the provision of audit services and certain non-audit are held immediately prior to submission of the interim and services by the external auditors.
annual financial statements to the Group Board.
This core agenda is supplemented by additional meetings as required, Annual audit services include all services detailed in the three being added in 2006.
Audit Committee meetings are annual engagement letter including the annual audit and attended by relevant executive directors, the internal and interim reviews including US reporting requirements, periodic external auditors and finance and risk management executives.
profit verifications and reports to regulators including skilled At least twice per annum the Audit Committee meets privately persons reports commissioned by the Financial Services with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also visits Authority e. g. Reporting Accountants Reports.
business divisions and selected Group functions under a programme set at the beginning of each year.
Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits required by any Group companies that are not The Board is satisfied that all the Audit Committee members incorporated in the United Kingdom.
Terms of engagement for have recent and relevant financial experience.
Although the these audits are agreed separately with management, and are Board has determined that each member of the Audit consistent with those set out in the audit engagement letter, as Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert and is local regulations permit.
independent, each as defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related guidance, the The prospectively approved non-audit services include the members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to following classes of service: the expertise and experience of the Audit Committee as a whole, and the Audit Committee reports to the Board as a capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and single entity.
The designation of a director or directors as an relevant reviews of registration statements: Audit Committee Financial Expert does not impose on any such director, any duties, obligations or liability that are greater provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such statements of the Group: director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in the absence of such a designation.
Nor does the designation provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, must of a director as an Audit Committee Financial Expert be rendered by the external auditors: affect the duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Board.
tax compliance services: The Audit Committee is responsible for: corporate finance services relative to companies that will remain outside the Group: and assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities and in making all relevant disclosures in relation to the financial insolvency work relating to the Groups customers.
affairs of the Group: The Audit Committee, in advance of the commencement of reviewing accounting and financial reporting and regulatory any such service, approves all other permitted non-audit compliance: services on a case by case basis.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews and monitors the independence and reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: and objectivity of the external auditors when it approves non-audit work to be carried out by them, taking into consideration monitoring the Groups processes for internal audit, risk relevant legislation and ethical guidance.
Information on the management and external audit.
audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditors is detailed in Note 4 to the Groups accounts.
Full details of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee are available at www.
com 112 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to involved cross Group participation and the external auditors assess the independence and objectivity of the external and concluded that the function operated effectively.
The Board auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, also concluded, following the 2006 internal review, that the taking into consideration relevant professional and Group Internal Audit function was effective.
The results of this evaluation are  conducted an external review of the reported to the Board.
effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the results of which were reported to the Board.
It is intended that there will be an external The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee every three to the Board, for it to put the Audit Committees years, with internal reviews by the Board continuing in the recommendations to shareholders for their approval at the intervening years.
An internal review of the Audit Committees Annual General Meeting in relation to the appointment, performance was undertaken in 2006 and a separate report on reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Board the outcome was considered and discussed by the Board.
has endorsed the Audit Committees recommendation that shareholders be requested to approve the reappointment of In 2005 the Audit Committee reviewed the audit committee Deloitte & Touche LLP as external auditors at the Annual structure throughout the Group and, as a result, proposed to General Meeting in April 2007. the Board a reorganisation and strengthening of the structure to ensure that audit committees would cover each separate The Audit Committee also fixes the remuneration of the Group business appropriately.
That recommendation was external auditors as authorised by shareholders at the Annual accepted by the Board, and, whilst still in its initial year, the General Meeting.
revised structure has bedded down well.
The Audit Committee has an appropriately close relationship with each of the The Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of business audit committees.
In 2004 KPMG conducted a review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
It is intended that there will be an external review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit Archie Hunter every three to five years in line with best practice, with internal Chairman of the Audit Committee reviews continuing in the intervening years.
In 2006 the Audit 28 February 2007 Committee conducted a review of Group Internal Audit that RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 113 Governance
