Audit committee report All of the members are independent nonSchroders executive Directors.
Luc Bertrand joined In this section we set out the role of the the Committee on 1 March 2006 on his Nominations and Audit Audit Committee, its membership and appointment to the Board.
The other committee reports what it considered during the year.
members of the Committee served throughout the year.
For the purposes of Role of the Committee the Combined Code, Kevin Parry, a former The Board has delegated to the Committee partner in the accountancy firm KPMG LLP, 34 35 responsibility for overseeing the financial is considered by the Board to have recent reporting and internal control of the Group and and relevant financial experience.
for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The main role Report on the Committees activities of the Committee is to encourage and in 2006 safeguard the highest standards of integrity, Meetings and attendance financial reporting, risk management and The Committee met four times in 2006. internal control.
In doing this the principal Attendance by Committee members at each responsibilities of the Committee include: of those meetings is set out in the table below: Maximum reviewing the form and content and possible Meetings monitoring the integrity of the Companys attendance attended and the Groups financial statements: Kevin Parry 44 Andrew Beeson 44 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness Luc Bertrand 32 of the external and internal audit functions: Merlyn Lowther 44 recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment or removal To assist the Committee in fulfilling its role, of the external auditors: a number of senior executives are invited to attend Committee meetings.
These include reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness the Chief Financial Officer, the Group of the Groups internal controls and risk Compliance Director, the Group Risk management systems: and Director, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel.
Each of reviewing and monitoring the Groups these provided reports on their areas of ethical standards, procedures for ensuring responsibility to each Committee compliance with regulatory and financial meeting.
The Groups external auditors, reporting requirements and its relationship  LLP, are also with the relevant regulatory authorities.
represented at each meeting and presented a report on their activities.
The terms of reference of the Committee as updated from time to time are available on During the year the Committee met separately www.
com or from the Company on two occasions with the Groups external Secretary at the registered office.
auditors and with the Head of Group Internal Audit without executive management present.
The composition of the Committee This provides an opportunity for the external The members of the Committee at the end and internal auditors to raise matters of of 2006 were: concern in confidence.
No issues of significance were raised during 2006.
Kevin Parry Chairman Luc Bertrand The Committee has a formal programme of Andrew Beeson issues which it covers during the year.
This Merlyn Lowther programme is formulated by the Committee Chairman and the Company Secretary and is designed to ensure that all matters that fall within the Committees remit are reviewed at the appropriate time.
The principal issues considered during 2006 Non-audit services and auditor LLP as auditors, taking into account the results were: independence of the auditor assessment process, the quality The Group has adopted a policy covering the of work undertaken, the level of audit fees and the annual financial statements for 2005 provision of non-audit services to the Group the succession of the senior audit partner.
The and interim financial statements for 2006: by the external auditors.
This policy was Committee concluded that it was appropriate adopted by the Committee in 2004 and was to recommend the reappointment of the the external audit plan for 2006: introduced to enhance further the governance Auditors and that this recommendation be put around the provision of such services and to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Group Internal Audits plans for 2006 provide a clear and transparent framework and 2007: to ensure the objectivity and independence The Committee is satisfied that the external of the external auditors.
Under the policy the auditors remain independent.
the Groups risk management process, provision of any service which might lead to including key risks facing the Group: a conflict of interests is not permitted unless Committee evaluation other possible providers are themselves The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken as part of the the appropriateness of the accounting conflicted.
In such exceptional cases the overall Board evaluation process for 2006. policies used in drawing up the Groups Audit Committee must approve each service The specific findings relating to the Audit accounts: and approval will only be given where the Committee is satisfied that appropriate Committee were discussed with the measures are in place to manage or mitigate Committee Chairman.
As a result, the Group Internal Audits quarterly and annual reports on internal audit activities and the any potential conflict of interest.
There were Committee will be reviewing its role, control environment: no such occurrences in 2006. responsibilities and terms of reference in the light of current best practice and making the external auditors year-end report and The policy also has strict rules in relation to recommendations to the Board for changes management letter: the approval of contracts for non-audit as appropriate.
services which do not present a possible the performance, independence and conflict of interest.
All contracts for non-audit Support to the Committee objectivity of the external auditors, including services must be notified to the Group Head The Committee received information and a review of non-audit fees: and of Finance and contracts valued in excess of support from management during the year 5,000 require prior approval.
The Groups to enable it to carry out its duties and the arrangements for staff to raise concerns external auditors are also required to provide responsibilities effectively.
The Committees about possible improprieties relating to the a report to the Audit Committee every six programme of business related presentations Companys operations the whistleblowing months detailing all non-audit services, was integrated into the briefing sessions arrangements.
including the level of fees charged.
The organised for the whole Board during the year.
external auditors are also required to confirm Details of these briefings are included in the Other issues annually that their firm, partners and staff Governance Report on page 25.
As well as the agreed schedule of issues are independent of the Group.
the Committee also received reports and The Committee has access to external presentations on various subjects connected The policy was reviewed by the Committee independent advice at the Companys principally to the control environment within in 2006 and the Committee was satisfied expense, normally through the Board the Group.
These included presentations that the policy remained appropriate and Secretary.
on the management of investment risk, the was being adhered to.
In 2006 the value implications for the Group of the Capital of non-audit services provided by Requirements Directive, the regulatory  LLP to Group framework for the establishment of a life companies was 0.8 million.
assurance company within the Group, and the new regulations on provision of To support the principles of independence, information to the Auditors.
The Committee the auditors have a policy governing the also reviewed the scope and level of cover length of time a partner can work on the provided by the Groups Directors and Schroders audit.
During the year a new Officers liability insurance, the governance senior audit partner was appointed.
of the Groups pension arrangements, the The Committee also considered the governance of outsourced activities and the reappointment of  risk management framework.
Each of these reports was discussed fully by the Committee.
