Corporate governance report The composition of the Board Schroders There are currently 12 Directors.
In addition This section of our Annual Report sets out our to the Chairman there are four executive Corporate approach to corporate governance in 2006.
Directors and seven non-executive Directors, governance report In it you will find information on the Board, five of whom are considered by the Board to how it operated, how it delegated its be independent.
Profiles of the Directors are responsibilities to the Executive team and on pages 18 and 19. to the Board Committees, how those 22 23 Committees discharged their responsibilities Luc Bertrand joined the Board as a nonand how we evaluated the effectiveness of executive Director on 1 March 2006.
There the Board, the Committees and the Directors.
were no other changes to the Board during This report also discusses how we engaged the year.
with our shareholders and how we approached our corporate and social The Nominations Committee reviewed responsibilities.
the composition of the Board in 2006 and recommended that the appointment of an additional independent non-executive Corporate governance review 2006 Director should be considered.
This search This review explains our overall approach to is progressing with a view to the Board corporate governance, how we have applied making an appointment in 2007. the principles of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the extent to which Chairman we have complied with the Codes provisions The Chairman is Michael Miles.
He is and an explanation of those areas where we responsible for leading the Board.
His other have not complied.
responsibilities are to ensure the effectiveness of the Board, monitor and evaluate the As one of the UKs largest asset managers, performance of the Chief Executive and corporate governance is very important to ensure there is appropriate dialogue with us.
We are committed to business integrity, our shareholders.
high ethical values and professionalism across all our activities.
The Board of Chief Executive Schroders plc supports the highest The Chief Executive is Michael Dobson.
He is standards of corporate governance.
responsible for the executive management of the business.
This includes recommending to In 2004 the Board adopted the Schroders the Board the Groups strategy for building Governance Guidelines.
These guidelines shareholder value over the long term through form the basis for how the Board and the growth in profits.
Committees operate, what is expected of Directors and how they discharge their duties.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Guidelines, and all the other documents are totally separate and each has a written mentioned in this Annual Report, are available job description setting out their respective on the website at www.
Senior Independent Director The role of the Board The Senior Independent Director is The Board is accountable to shareholders Sir Peter Job.
He is available to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, if they have concerns which have not or sustainable financial performance and longcannot be resolved through discussion with term shareholder value.
The Board achieves the Chairman or the executive Directors.
this through a combination of deciding on Sir Peter also chairs meetings of the nonissues itself, delegating responsibility to Board executive Directors at which the performance Committees and delegating authority to the of the Chairman is reviewed.
Certain matters can only be decided by the Board.
These are contained Non-executive Directors in the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the The Board considers that Andrew Beeson, Board which can be found on the website Luc Bertrand, Sir Peter Job, Merlyn Lowther and include consideration and approval of and Kevin Parry are independent nonsuch matters as: executive Directors.
None of the factors The Groups strategy: implying a lack of independence, as set out Major acquisitions and disposals: in the Combined Code, applies.
George Significant new business activities: Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder are also The Annual Report and Accounts non-executive Directors, but do not meet the and other financial statements: and test of independence in the Combined Code.
However, the Board considers that both of them bring valuable experience to Board deliberations and that at all times they act in the best interests of all shareholders.
Time commitment Attendance at the Board meetings is set out Executive attended meetings at the invitation The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and in the table below: of the Chairman.
A further meeting of the each of the non-executive Directors committed Chairmans Committee was held to review the sufficient time during 2006 to the fulfilment Maximum performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman possible Meetings of their duties as Directors of the Company.
did not attend this meeting.
attendance attended During the year the Chairman stood down Michael Miles 55 as chairman of Johnson Matthey and as a Delegated authorities Michael Dobson 55 non-executive director of BP, his two principal The Board has a formal schedule of matters Jonathan Asquith 55 external commitments.
None of the nonreserved to it, subject to which authority to Luc Bertrand 44 executive Directors has any conflict of interest manage the business is delegated to the Alan Brown 55 which has not been disclosed to the Board Chief Executive.
He in turn delegates authority Andrew Beeson 55 in accordance with the Companys Articles to the senior executive team which sits on the Sir Peter Job 55 of Association.
This is Merlyn Lowther 55 chaired by the Chief Executive and generally George Mallinckrodt 54 External non-executive directorships meets monthly to oversee the strategic Kevin Parry 55 The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit management of the Groups business.
Bruno Schroder 55 of executive Directors and other employees The current members and their areas Massimo Tosato 55 of responsibility are set out below: accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Information to the Board Michael Dobson Chief Executive Company.
The Board has adopted a policy Before each Board meeting Directors Jonathan Asquith Chief Financial Officer on external appointments which is designed received comprehensive papers and reports Alan Brown Investment to ensure that employees remain able to on the issues to be discussed at the meeting.
Jamie Dorrien-Smith Americas discharge their responsibilities to the Group.
Senior executives below Board level also Lester Gray Asia Pacific Directors and employees are usually attended meetings to make presentations on Philip Mallinckrodt Corporate Development and permitted to retain any fees paid in respect their areas of responsibility.
This gave the Private Banking of such appointments.
Under the policy Board the opportunity to have direct access Markus Ruetimann Operations, IT and executive Directors may not take on more to executives below Board level.
In addition Human Resources than one non-executive directorship of a to Board papers, Directors were provided Massimo Tosato Distribution FTSE 100 company or any chairmanship with relevant information between meetings.
Howard Trust General Counsel of such a company.
None of the executive This included information on management Directors currently holds a directorship of changes and the announcement of our The Board delegates certain of its a FTSE 100 company.
Directors were responsibilities to its Remuneration, also sent copies of the minutes of the Group Nominations and Audit Committees.
To avoid potential conflicts of interest, nonManagement Committee meetings, the Summaries of the terms of reference of these executive Directors are expected to inform principal executive committee.
Committees are set out on pages 26, 34 and the Chairman before taking up any additional 35 respectively, together with reports on the external appointments.
Support to the Board Committees activities during the year.
The The Board Secretary is responsible for Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Board meetings advising and supporting the Chairman and Committees reported to the Board on the The Board held five meetings during 2006, the Board on corporate governance matters.
matters considered, and any significant issues including a two day off-site meeting which Directors have access through the Board that had arisen, at the next Board meeting focused on the Groups strategy.
The Board Secretary to independent professional advice after their Committees had met.
Meetings of has a two year rolling plan of items for at the Companys expense.
the Nominations Committee were held after discussion, agreed between the Chairman the conclusion of scheduled Board meetings.
This plan is reviewed Insurance and indemnification All Directors received copies of the minutes and adapted regularly to ensure that all of The Company maintains appropriate of all Committee meetings.
the matters reserved to the Board, as well Directors and Officers liability insurance.
as other key issues, are discussed at the Following a recent change in legislation the Board effectiveness appropriate time.
At each Board meeting Company will be putting forward a proposal Evaluation the Chief Executive provided a review of the at the Annual General Meeting to make certain The Board, led by the Chairman, reviewed business and its performance and the Chief amendments to its Articles of Association, during the year the effectiveness of the Board, Financial Officer provided a detailed review including in relation to the indemnification of the principal Board Committees and individual of the Groups financial position.
In 2006 the Directors and funding of their defence costs.
The Board considered alternative range of subjects discussed included: Further details are set out in the notice of evaluation methods and agreed that internal The strategic development of the Group, meeting on pages 97 and 98.
If such evaluation using a Schroders-specific including people strategy: amendments are approved, it is also proposed questionnaire was the most appropriate The Groups financial results: that the Company enters into specific deeds method this year.
The responses to the The budget for 2007: of indemnity with each Director and the questionnaire were analysed and reviewed The dividend: Company Secretary, as explained on page 22. with the Chairman.
The Chairman also The Groups capital: discussed the effectiveness of the Board with Our regional businesses in Asia, Europe Chairmans Committee Directors on an individual basis.
A report was and the Americas: Meetings of the Chairman and non-executive prepared on the findings of the evaluation Our key business areas including Directors, usually without the executive process and this was considered by the Investment, Distribution, Private Equity Directors present, are held prior to most whole Board at its meeting in February 2007. and Private Banking: scheduled Board meetings.
Four such Our information technology and operational meetings were held in 2006 and matters The performance of the Chief Executive was platforms: discussed included the evaluation of the considered by the Chairmans Committee.
Approval of the acquisitions of NewFinance Board, the performance of the Chief The outcome was discussed by the Chairman Capital and Aareal Asset Management: and Executive, shareholder relations and with the Chief Executive.
The Chief The non-executive Directors, led by Sir Peter The Annual General Meeting provides Schroders Job in his role as Senior Independent Director, shareholders with an opportunity to question also assessed the performance of the the Chairman and other Directors, including Corporate Chairman with input from the whole Board.
the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit governance report Sir Peter discussed with the Chairman the Committees.
The Chief Executive provided outcome of this review.
shareholders at the 2006 meeting with a review of the Groups business in 2005.
The Induction and updating of knowledge Annual Report and Accounts and the notice 24 25 All new Directors undertake an induction of meeting are sent to shareholders at least programme on joining the Board.
The aim of 20 working days prior to the date of the this programme is to introduce new Directors Annual General Meeting.
to the Groups business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
The induction Compliance with Code Provisions programme includes meetings with senior The Company complied with all of the management, visits to offices, presentations provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code on key business areas and relevant 2003 throughout the year.
The Board receives two provisions of the entire Code with which we did not comply fully.
These were: presentations on business and functional areas and new business and strategic developments.
Neither Bruno Schroder nor George In addition, briefing sessions are held which Mallinckrodt are considered independent are open to all Directors.
Topics covered in under the provisions of the Code.
2006 included the management of investment Consequently, fewer than half five of the risk, the Groups property business and the members of the Board excluding the implications for Directors of the new Chairman comprised independent nonCompanies Act.
Bruno Schroder is a representative of the principal shareholder Shareholder relations group and the Board considers that it is Ongoing communication across the appropriate for this group to be represented Companys shareholder base, including on the Board.
George Mallinckrodt is not institutional investors and private and considered independent as he is a former employee shareholders, is achieved mainly executive Director of the Company.
The through the publication of the annual and Board considers that his business and interim reports and quarterly trading international experience are of great updates, the announcement of significant value to the Board.
The Board is looking developments affecting the Group and the to appoint an additional independent Annual General Meeting.
Corporate and non-executive Director in 2007. investor information, including webcasts of the presentations of the interim and final Until he stood down at the end of March results made by the Chief Executive, 2006, Michael Miles was also chairman Chief Financial Officer and other senior of Johnson Matthey plc.
During that time management are published on our website.
both Schroders and Johnson Matthey were constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
The Board as a whole is responsible for Michael Miles was appointed Chairman ensuring that dialogue with shareholders of both companies before the provisions takes place.
During the year the Chief of the Combined Code were introduced.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior executives conducted a series of meetings with, and presentations to, Michael Miles institutional investors, analysts and Chairman prospective shareholders to review the Groups strategy and prospects and to 8 March 2007 discuss corporate governance matters.
Over 30 such meetings were held in 2006.
The Chairman is also available to meet institutional shareholders, as is the Senior Independent Director.
Feedback from shareholders is available to the Board from the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
