Nominations committee report Report on the Committees activities in 2006 In this section we set out the role of the Meetings and attendance Nominations Committee, its membership The Committee, which meets as often as and what it considered during the year.
necessary to discharge its duties, met in February and November.
There was full Role of the Committee attendance by all members at both meetings.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing Principal issues appointments to the Board and for The principal issues addressed during recommending any other changes to the 2006 were: composition of the Board or of the Board Committees.
The principal responsibilities the appointment of Luc Bertrand as an of the Committee include: additional independent non-executive Director: and reviewing the size and composition of the Board: the composition of the Board.
Following the Committees review of selecting candidates for appointment to the composition of the Board it was the Board to meet the desired composition: recommended that a search for an additional independent non-executive Director should the procedure for the appointment be instigated.
This process has now of new Directors to the Board: and commenced and the Committee hopes that a further appointment will be recommended ensuring succession plans are in place to the Board during 2007. for key Board members.
Support The full terms of reference of the Committee are The Committee receives information and available on www.
com or from the support from management and external Company Secretary at the registered office.
sources as necessary to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The composition of the Committee The members of the Committee at the end of 2006 were: Michael Miles Chairman Andrew Beeson Luc Bertrand Sir Peter Job Merlyn Lowther George Mallinckrodt Kevin Parry Bruno Schroder Luc Bertrand joined the Committee on 1 March 2006 on his appointment to the Board.
