26 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Corporate Governance Report General principles Directors The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate The Board governance.
During the year to 31 December 2006 and as The Company is led by a Board comprising four Executive and detailed below and in the Remuneration Report, the Company five Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout 2006, the Chairman complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the and the Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 and Board and this continues to be the case.
The Chairman and each voluntarily complied with the updated section of the 2006 of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent Financial Reporting Council Combined Code July 2006. of management.
They each have wide areas of experience and have no business or other relationship that could materially Ethics and Business Integrity Policy interfere with their independent judgement.
David Garman Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
integrity and ethics which underlies the Carillion values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, sustainable In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation.
service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
The Ethics and Integrity Policy demonstrates how Carillion will conduct its business to the highest ethical standards.
A detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate governance procedures and compliance was again conducted The policy applies to all employees of any Carillion group in 2006 by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company company.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is and will be Secretary.
The internal evaluation took into account the views reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through of each of the Directors on i the role of directors, ii the the quality and value of its work and through the reliability performance of the Board, the Chairman and the Non-Executive and reputation of its employees.
Directors, iii Board Committees, iv leadership and culture, v Corporate Governance vi Directors remuneration, The policy is: vii relations with shareholders and viii Board accountability business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes.
The Board at its meeting in November 2006 reviewed not sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or the results of the internal evaluation and, where required, issues gifts-in-kind.
We will investigate fully all alleged breaches.
were acted upon in order to further enhance the effectiveness We will dismiss any employee who has breached this policy: of the Boards procedures and working practices.
mutual respect: we do what we say we will do.
We treat our people fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding This is the fifth year that this process has taken place and will discrimination and bullying.
We provide a safe and healthy be repeated annually as the Board considers it satisfactory.
In working environment, and respect sustainable principles in addition, reviews of the performance of each of the Directors all our dealings: has taken place.
trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies, respecting diverse traditions and cultures.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the We respect the trust placed in us by others, not least when Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses we are asked to take responsibility for aspects of their the following parameters: business or resources.
We maintain and demand high professional standards and demand honesty and openness.
the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is We avoid conflicts of interest wherever possible, and we to provide continuity, experience and governance while the proactively declare any unavoidable conflicts for open scrutiny Chief Executive provides leadership, energy, imagination and resolution: and the driving force: legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings.
the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward We clearly communicate procedures for disciplining those of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the who do not comply with the law or our standards and shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of policies.
We maintain a system for confidential reporting their respective roles encourages the Chairman and Chief of breaches of our standards and policies: Executive to work well together to provide effective and human rights: we support the belief that human rights are complementary stewardship: universal and adhere to the principles of human rights in the Chairman must: our operations.
We support the United Nations Universal take overall responsibility for the composition and Declaration on Human Rights.
capability of the Board: consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be This policy is carried into Carillions business through a series of available on a flexible basis for providing advice, detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion to carry into practice counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
its reputation for conducting business to the highest ethical the Chief Executive must: standard which is essential to its relationships with customers, manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day business partners, employees, shareholders and the public.
to day activities: The detailed procedures reflect the way Carillion competes for prepare and present to the Board strategic options business, through the quality and value of its work and through for growth in shareholder value: the reliability and reputation of its people.
set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy: The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy and its implementation ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk is reviewed annually by the Board.
27 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability The Board had a programme of seven meetings in 2006 and Audit Committee also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2007, the Board David Maloney, Chairman has a programme of ten meetings.
David Garman Steven Mogford A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Vanda Murray consideration and decision is maintained.
These matters include: This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim Committee on pages 28 and 29. financial statements and the recommendation of dividends: appointments to and removals from the Board and the terms Nominations Committee of reference and membership of Board committees: Philip Rogerson, Chairman approval of Group strategy and annual budgets: David Garman approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies: David Maloney authorisation for any acquisition or disposal: John McDonough review of the internal control arrangements and risk Steven Mogford management strategies: and Vanda Murray review of corporate governance arrangements.
The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes is responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Committee also reviews succession The Board approves the appointment and removal of the planning to ensure that processes and plans are in place with Company Secretary.
regard to both Board and senior appointments.
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take Attendance at meetings in 2006 independent professional advice when necessary, at the The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings expense of the Company.
attended by each Director during 2006 was as follows: The Board is provided with regular and timely information on Audit Remuneration Nominations the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and Board Committee Committee Committee of the Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Number of meetings held 7 3 2 5 Board Committees David Garman 7 3 2 5 The principal Board committees are the Remuneration Christopher Girling 7 Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to Donald Kenny 2 each of these committees.
The terms of reference of David Maloney 7 3 2 5 each of the Board committees are available on the Carillion John McDonough 7 5 website at www.
com or on request from the Steven Mogford 2 1 1 Company Secretary.
Vanda Murray 7 3 2 5 The membership of each of the principal committees Roger Robinson 7 is as follows: Philip Rogerson 7 5 Remuneration Committee Both appointed on 6 September 2006.
David Garman, Chairman David Maloney In December 2006, Carillion announced the appointment Steven Mogford of Richard Adam as Group Finance Director to succeed Vanda Murray Chris Girling.
Richard joins Carillion from Associated British Ports Holdings ABPH, where he has been Group Finance The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Director since 1999.
He will take up the appointment Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board upon Chris Girlings retirement in April 2007. on the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on At ABPH, Richard has led the development of strong pages 31 to 38. financial management and played a key role in steering the Groups proactive communications with investors and other stakeholders.
With proven financial and City experience and strong operational and business management skills, Richard will play a leading role in the delivery of Carillions strategy for sustainable profitable growth.
28 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Corporate Governance Report continued Other Board matters Induction and development of Directors Policy on external appointments Directors are provided with a comprehensive information Recognising that external appointments can broaden their pack on joining the Company and are advised of their legal knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to company.
In addition, all new Directors receive an induction on accept a limited number of such appointments and retain their appointment covering such matters as the operation and the fees received for such appointments.
Chris Girling is a activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the Companys Non-Executive Director of Elementis plc.
Directors are also briefed by the Companys external advisors, where appropriate, on Nomination and remuneration of Directors changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by as receiving briefings from business groups throughout the year.
the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in November 2006 the Directors visited the Groups operations in For the Board appointments made in 2006, the Nominations Dubai and Oman.
Directors also visit other operations and staff.
Committee used the services of two executive recruitment consultants, Odgers Ray & Berndtson and JCA.
Details of The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is potential candidates were provided by both Odgers Ray & encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby Berndtson and JCA and initially reviewed by a sub-committee the Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with selected requirements in this respect.
candidates were then held with Directors.
Subsequently, the Nominations Committee met to recommend appointments Relations with shareholders which were then approved by the Board.
In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major are normally for three years: reappointment is subject to shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of review and is not automatic.
The details of these meetings are reported to the Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Director are available for meetings with representatives of Board as a whole, taking into account the commitment major shareholders as required.
required and participation in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to the business of the Group.
In Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Directors to seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with general The Company complies fully with the provisions of the practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the NonCombined Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda Executive Directors is based on independent external advice.
and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be present The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2007 to respond Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38. to shareholders questions.
Retirement of Directors by rotation Accountability and Audit All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Report of the Audit Committee at least every three years.
The Director retiring and seeking The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Non-Executive Directors: 9 May 2007 is John McDonough.
David Maloney, Chairman Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by David Garman shareholders at the first opportunity following their Steve Mogford appointment.
Accordingly, Donald Kenny and Steven Mogford Vanda Murray will seek election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
David Maloney is an accountant who previously held a number The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms of senior finance posts including Chief Financial Officer for and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts, Chief Financial Officer for are available for inspection at the registered office of the the Thomson Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Company during normal business hours on any weekday Director of Avis Europe plc.
David was appointed to the bank holidays excepted and at the Annual General Meeting.
David Garman is Chief Executive of TDG plc and was appointed to the Audit Committee in October 2004.
29 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Vanda Murray is Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone Internal controls Group and a Non-Executive Director of both the North West The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system Development Agency and The Manufacturing Institute.
This responsibility includes clearly She was a Director of Ultraframe plc until its takeover in 2006. determining the control environment and reviewing annually Vanda was appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005. the effectiveness of the internal control system.
However, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute Steve Mogford is a Director of BAE Systems plc and was assurance against material misstatement or loss.
appointed to the Audit Committee in September 2006.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks both invitation of the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives financial and non-financial and including Corporate Social of the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Responsibility risks faced by the Group including joint ventures Risk and the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite and overseas businesses.
The process has been in place for the others as it requires from time to time.
The Committee also year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual meets privately with both the external and internal auditors.
Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across the Group is provided through a combination of the review of the annual and interim financial statements: techniques: consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations and the financial and accounting policies of the Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and Carillion Group: effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by compliance with statutory and other external requirements: the business and reports its findings to management, the reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit results of its audit work and the response of management: Plan is presented to and approved by the Audit Committee reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its annually: cost-effectiveness: recommendations to improve the system of control are ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are made by Internal Audit.
The implementation of these complementary: recommendations is followed up and reported on quarterly: monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification auditors and ensuring that the services provided including procedures and control processes implemented by non-audit services provide a proper balance between management: objectivity and value for money: a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group recommending to the Board the external auditors to be where Directors and senior managers are required to detail proposed to shareholders for appointment.
and certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in their business areas is appropriate.
They also The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes information necessary to fulfil its duties ii call any member of and appropriate controls are in place and are operating staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and effectively: and when required and iii obtain external professional advice, at Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the application of internal controls in key business projects fulfilment of its duties.
and on policy and procedure changes.
The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular Directors which also reflect their membership of the Audit basis.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures Committee and other Board committees.
See page 32 and ensures that the level of confidence required by the Board for details.
It also ensures the financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
The Audit Committee presents its findings Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to the Board regularly and the Head of Internal Audit has direct to 31 December 2006 access to the Audit Committee members.
Financial statements The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management As a result of the acquisition of Mowlem plc, Internal Audit and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
In reviewed its role, resourcing, remit and team structure during this context, the Committee also reviews the written reports of 2006, to ensure that it continues to meet the needs of its KPMG on issues arising from the annual audit and the review stakeholders and fulfils its governance role.
A high level review of the interim results.
of the function was also carried out by a third party.
As a result the team structure has been revised to meet audit requirements in the enlarged Group and minor amendments to processes have been implemented.
30 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management Audit independence The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the risk issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an reporting to shareholders.
independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee see below.
This appraisal ensures The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters properly identified so maximising the opportunities available: relating to the audit.
it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually considered.
by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of In addition, the Risk Forum, a committee of risk professionals KPMG unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of from each of the business groups, meets on a quarterly basis KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee to assess the strategic risks facing the Carillion Group.
The also has discussions with the auditor, without management conclusions of the Risk Forum are reported to the Audit being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any Committee.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the sanctioning body for major commitments and The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in transactions including capital expenditure, major contracts advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by and company and business acquisitions and disposals.
This the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses committee has delegated authority up to specified levels of and the local KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, beyond which for approval.
Rotation of audit directors responsibilities within Board approval is required.
KPMG is required by their professions ethical standards.
The current audit director responsible for the Carillion engagement Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy is in his second year of signing the report.
There is also rotation and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for of key members within the audit team.
commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has and are subject to controls by management that have been a policy to prosecute individuals found to have defrauded the agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence Company or its subsidiaries.
Learning points for management is not compromised.
In summary, the procedures are: are identified and action plans implemented to minimise the recurrence of fraud.
audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about support is required then this is considered competitively: malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion whistle blowing hotline provided by an independent third uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other party is available.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated competitively: Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation general and systems consulting: all significant consulting of significant risks applicable to its areas of business together projects are subject to competitive tender.
with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give be associated with a variety of internal or external sources, prior approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates including control breakdowns, disruption in information in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is systems, competition, corporate social responsibility, natural to determine that other potential providers of the services have catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Management is also been adequately considered.
responsible for timely and accurate reporting of business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies set These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate by the Board in its areas of business.
Regular performance confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting review meetings are held where management reports to the on the audit of the Group.
Executive Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to Health and safety the Board.
A review of the Groups progress on health and safety, environmental and social performance is contained in the The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes Corporate and Social Responsibility report on pages 22 to 23. in the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary of risk.
These key performance R F Tapp indicators and risks are listed in the Chief Executives Review on Secretary pages 7 and 9.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the 7 March 2007 Board considers the recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by the Audit Committee.
This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
