208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 31 Corporate Governance Report This report explains the approach the Group has taken to apply the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board considers that the Group has achieved compliance with all the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting year.
The Board The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group and for ensuring that the right strategy and controls are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and the wider community of individuals and organisations which benefit from the Groups activities.
St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board meets six times a year, with additional meetings arranged on an ad hoc basis as required.
During 2006 there were six formal Board Meetings plus an additional all day strategy meeting.
A table containing the Directors attendance at Board meetings can be found on page 32.
Board members are supplied with an agenda and board pack prior to each meeting.
This will normally include detailed reports on current trading, sales, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The Board also receives reports from the Chairmen of the various Committees of the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it, a copy of which can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the corporate website.
The primary responsibilities of the Board are to: determine the overall strategy of the Group: ensure that the Groups operations are well managed and proper succession plans are in place: review major transactions or initiatives proposed by the executive Directors: implement appropriate corporate governance procedures: periodically review the results and operations of the Group: ensure that proper accounting records are maintained and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the Group from fraud and other significant risks: identify and manage risk: and decide the Groups policy on charitable and political donations.
A Board Control Manual sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Group and defines the terms of reference of the Committees of the Board and the Groups risk policies.
In addition, it contains detailed job descriptions of the Directors showing their individual responsibilities.
The Manual is reviewed by the Board annually.
The Roles of the Chairman and Managing Director The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, Mike Wilson, and the Managing Director, David Bellamy, is clearly dened and has been approved by the Board.
No single individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the continued effectiveness of the Board of Directors and communication with shareholders.
He also liaises with senior members of the Groups sales force and acts as a sounding board to the senior management team, where they feel it appropriate.
The Managing Directors primary responsibility is to manage the Group and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
30 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 32 Corporate Governance Report continued The Executive Committee The Board delegates day-to-day business and risk management control to the Executive Committee.
The Committee met fortnightly in 2006 to discuss and consider operational issues, business development plans, financial and operating budgets and forecasts, capital expenditure proposals, compliance matters and key performance indicators.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises an executive Chairman, six independent non-executive Directors, two nonindependent non-executive Directors and three executive Directors.
Changes to the Board during the year include the resignation of James Crosby and John Edwards and the appointment of Jo Dawson and Andy Hornby as non-independent non-executive Directors, being the HBOS representatives on the Board.
In addition, Mark Lund resigned from the Board on 4 January 2007.
When determining whether a non-executive Director is independent, the Board considers for each non-executive Director whether they are independent in character and judgement, how they conduct themselves in Board meetings, whether they have any relationships or there are any circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement, and whether they act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders at all times.
The Board has considered the independence of Derek Netherton with particular care, given that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board strongly believes that Derek Netherton continues to contribute signicantly to the Board and its Committees through his individual skills and considerable knowledge of both the Company and the financial services industry.
His financial knowledge is particularly helpful in connection with his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee and he continues to demonstrate a strong independence of management in the manner in which he discharges his responsibility as a Director at Board and Committee meetings by questioning and constructively challenging management as and when he considers it appropriate.
In view of the above and the changes to the Board membership made in recent years, the Board does not believe that it is in the interests of the Group to replace Derek Netherton with a further non-executive Director appointment at the present time.
This matter is subject to annual review by the Board with the assistance of the Nomination Committee.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available on request and will be available at the Annual General Meeting in May 2007.
The Senior Independent Director Michael Sorkin has acted as the Senior Independent Director since May 2005.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Professional Development Directors receive training in their duties and responsibilities on appointment as part of an induction process designed to assist them in their understanding of the business, including meeting with members of senior management, the Partnership and visiting some of the Groups ofces.
The Directors are also offered training on an ongoing basis via a rolling programme coordinated by the Company Secretary.
During 2006 a number of non-executive Directors received presentations on product development, Life company accounting and the impact of Pensions A Day, as well as having an opportunity to meet with Partners and staff informally.
Non-executive Directors may also meet with major shareholders as necessary.
31 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 33 Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors are regularly updated on their duties and responsibilities and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and to independent professional advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is made available as necessary to ensure that the whole Board is kept abreast of relevant developments applicable to their roles and topical issues are also addressed before each Board meeting.
For example, the Board have been updated by the Company Secretary on the new directors duties introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
Performance Evaluation During 2006 the Chairman held separate meetings with the non-executive Directors.
Issues discussed included topics for pre-Board presentations, non-executive Director training requirements and the results of the performance evaluation of the Board.
In addition, the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance and to discuss other topical issues such as succession plans and the overall performance of the Board.
The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance and of its committees and individual Directors by way of a detailed questionnaire and interviews carried out by the Company Secretary.
The findings were presented to the Board and as a result, a number of improvements were made to the Boards procedures, including the information contained in Board packs and further discussions on strategic issues.
The Senior Independent Director carried out a formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
Board Committees The Board has formally constituted six committees, being the Audit, Investment, Nomination, Remuneration, Risk and Urgent Issues Committees.
The membership and terms of reference of the Board committees are reviewed at least annually and are available on request and on the Companys website.
Board Meetings and Attendance The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2006 was as follows: Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the Director was a Board or Committee member.
Board Risk Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment 7 meetings 6 meetings 7 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 6 meetings S Bates 7 1 2 - - 1 1 6 D Bellamy 7 - - - - A Croft 7 - - - - - J Dawson 3 3 - - - - - I Gascoigne 7 - - - - - S Gulliford 7 3 4 - 1 2 - A Hornby 3 3 - - - - - D Netherton 7 - 7 3 - - M Power 7 6 7 - - - M Sorkin 6 - 7 3 2 - R W alsom 7 6 - - - - M Wilson 7 - - - 2 - 32 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 34 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Members: Derek Netherton Chairman, Michael Sorkin and Mike Power.
The Audit Committee comprises solely independent non-executive Directors.
All of the Committee members held ofce throughout the year and at the date of this report and have considerable financial experience, as can be seen from their biographies on pages 24 to 26.
During the year, the Committee invited the Finance Director, the Group Risk Director, Executive Director Internal Audit and Risk Management, an HBOS representative and the external auditor to attend meetings.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is set out below: to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group, including reviewing and advising the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards: to review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external auditors, the results of the audit work and the responses of management: to make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and to monitor their performance: to review any non-audit services provided by the external auditors and to maintain responsibility for ensuring the independence, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditors: to monitor and oversee the Groups internal control procedures and risk management processes: to approve the internal audit plan for the year and review reports on the results of such internal audits including the response of management: to review the activities, resources, organisational structure and operational effectiveness of the internal audit function: to receive reports from the internal audit function on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups control framework: to carry out an annual review of the Groups system of internal control: and to assess the appropriateness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
During the year, the Committee formally reviewed and considered the following: draft interim and annual reports and associated preliminary and interim announcements, focussing on key areas of judgement and accounting policies: reports of the Risk Management and Internal Audit functions and external audit findings: at each meeting a progress report on the internal audit plan and regular updates on the implementation of that plan: and increasing the number of meetings from 4 to 5 so that an entire meeting could be dedicated to the annual review of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors independence and the services provided by the external auditors.
In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has established a financial limit of 100,000 on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit advice and consultancy work.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 75.
33 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 35 Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee Members: Michael Sorkin Chairman, Simon Gulliford and Derek Netherton.
The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent non-executive Directors.
All of the Committee members held ofce throughout the year and at the date of this report.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee is set out below: to determine all aspects of executive Director and senior management remuneration: to determine the discretionary bonus scheme for executive Directors and to review the performance of the Directors against the scheme: to determine appropriate incentives to executive Directors to encourage enhanced performance including grants of options or awards of shares and determining the policy and performance conditions of such grants or awards: to determine the policy for and scope of termination payments and severance terms for executive Directors: and to be responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the committee.
Meetings are held on an ad-hoc basis as issues arise.
Further details on the work of the Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 42.
Nomination Committee Members: Michael Sorkin Chairman, Simon Gulliford and Mike Wilson.
During the year, Sarah Bates stood down as a member of the Committee and was replaced by Simon Gulliford.
Mike Wilson stepped down as Chairman, to be replaced by Michael Sorkin in January 2007.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee is set out below: to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required for a role and the preparation of a description of any new role and the capabilities required: to consider new appointments and to make recommendations on suitable candidates to the Board: and to consider succession planning for senior executive positions and the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Committee considered succession plans for the Board and senior management as well as evaluating ways of improving staff development at all levels of the Company.
The results of the staff survey were also considered with a view to implementing the findings during 2007 and beyond.
More recently the Committee has taken the lead role in nding suitable candidates for the position of Chief Executive, with a view to providing a shortlist for discussion by the Board.
The Committee has appointed a consultancy to assist with the search and agreed a set of objective criteria on which the merits of the candidates will be assessed.
Risk Committee Members: Mike Power Chairman, Sarah Bates and Roger Walsom.
During 2006, Simon Gulliford stood down as a member of the Committee and was replaced by Sarah Bates.
The Chief Executive, Managing Director, Group Sales Director, Group Risk Director, Executive Director Internal Audit and Risk Management and an HBOS representative were all invited by the Chairman to attend meetings.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee is set out below: to foster a culture of effective risk identication and management throughout the Group: to review the material and emerging risks affecting the Group and to call for reports from management on how material risks are being managed: 34 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 36 Corporate Governance Report continued to report to the Audit Committee and the Board on any material areas of concern or weakness identied by the Committee: to review and approve the Groups Risk Appetite Statement and risk policies: to carry out an annual review of the procedures for the identication, recording and mitigation of material risks across the Group: and to make recommendations for changes in risk-related practices or procedures.
During the year, the Committee received regular updates by senior executives on risk identication and mitigation within specic areas of the business, including the Group Services department, business checking functions, recruitment and money laundering.
The Committee also formally reviewed and considered the following: the annual Risk Appetite Statement: risk reports from the Irish life company St. Jamess Place International plc: the annual Money Laundering Reporting Ofcers Report: the Individual Capital Assessment: and reports from Operational Compliance on Risk Management.
Investment Committee Members: Sir Mark Weinberg Chairman and Sarah Bates.
All of the Committee members held ofce throughout the year.
Mark Lund was a Committee member until his resignation on 4 January 2007.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance and suitability of the external fund managers, with assistance from investment consultants Stamford Associates.
The Group Business Development Director, Divisional Director Asset Management and advisers from Stamford Associates were all invited to attend meetings during the year by the Chairman.
The Committees main responsibilities are: - to oversee the Groups investment management approach: to monitor the performance and suitability of the fund managers and to ensure that they follow the terms of their agreements with the Group: to make recommendations in relation to the appointment or removal of fund managers: to oversee market risk: and to consider and make recommendations in relation to the appointment and the continued effectiveness of the investment consultant.
The Committees approach to fund management is to adopt considered views about the likelihood of future outcomes which will put the Company in an informed position to take decisive and remedial action, if appropriate, preferably before a period of sustained poor investment results has been experienced by an investment manager.
For example, during the year the Committee devoted time to considering: the possible consequences arising from the retirement of Nils Taube from Taube Hodson Stonex Partners THSP : and oversaw an extensive search of more than 80 investment management professionals on a worldwide basis, before appointing Richard Pierson of AXA Framlington and Paul Butler of Newton to the St. Jamess Places investment offering.
A copy of the Report of the Investment Committee 2006, which gives more details on the work of the Investment Committee, can be obtained by contacting the Company.
35 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 37 Corporate Governance Report continued Urgent Issues Committee Comprising the Chairman and at least two other Directors, one of whom must be a non-executive Director, the role of the Urgent Issues Committee is to make decisions on matters of urgency which cannot await the next meeting of the Board.
It can act only by unanimous decision.
If this cannot be reached, the issue under consideration will be referred for decision to the full Board.
The Committee did not meet during 2006.
Directors and Ofcers Insurance The Group has taken out insurance covering Directors and ofcers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or ofcers.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains close relationships with institutional shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings.
In addition, there are regular meetings with the Companys brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and Dresdner Kleinwort, who facilitate meetings with other investors and their representatives.
Attendance notes from such meetings are circulated to members of the Board so they are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation with shareholders should the need arise.
Non-executive Directors are also available to meet with major shareholders on request.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is held in London where members of the Board are available to answer shareholders questions on the activities of the Board and its Committees.
Where possible, the timing and location of the meeting is designed to encourage the participation of small shareholders.
Relationship with HBOS plc The Company and Halifax Group plc entered into a Relationship Agreement in order to regulate the relationship between the two companies after the completion of the Partial Offer in June 2000.
Following the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001, the Relationship Agreement was novated to HBOS plc.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company can operate independently of the HBOS group and to provide that the relationship between members of the HBOS group and the SJP Group will be conducted on an arms length basis.
Under the Agreement, HBOS has power to appoint a number of Directors to the Board and its Committees.
The number varies in relation to HBOS shareholding in the Company and HBOS currently has the right to appoint three non-executive Directors to the Board.
As at the date of this report, HBOS has appointed two non-executive Directors to the SJP Board, being Jo Dawson and Andy Hornby.
Risk & Risk Management Introduction The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risk are an integral part of SJPs management process.
Understanding the risks we face and managing them appropriately aids effective decision making and contributes to the achievement of our business objectives.
Each of our shareholders has made an investment in our business and by doing so accepts that in order to be successful we must take risks.
As a regulated business, however, we also have specic duties to our clients.
We must therefore manage risk to an acceptable level, in accordance with our agreed risk appetite whilst meeting our regulatory obligations.
36 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 38 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk Management Framework Risk appetite The Groups Risk Appetite Statement lays out what types of risk the Group intends to take and to what extent.
It is used to balance risk and return, recognising a range of outcomes, as business plans are implemented.
The Board regularly reviews the Risk Appetite Statement.
Risk policies The Groups Risk Management Policy sets out the key elements of the risk management framework and is designed to ensure that sound risk management practices are in place, including the application of the Groups risk appetite.
This includes individual policies for Insurance Risk, Market Risk, Credit Risk, Liquidity Risk, Operational Risk and Group Risk.
Risk governance The Board is ultimately responsible for the system of risk management in the Group and for ensuring that the Risk Management Policy is adopted.
The governance and decision-making mechanisms within the Group are set out in the Board Control Manual, in particular the activities of the Board, its sub-committees, the Executive Committee ExCo and its Principal Committees Board Board subRisk Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment Urgent Issues committees Executive Committee Principal Regulatory Actuarial Capital Cirencester Sales Product Product IMA committees of Risk Management & Tax Directors Directors Steering Advice Steering ExCo The Groups senior management have clearly dened responsibilities for managing specic risks.
Risk Management & Risk Assessment process Executive management has primary responsibility for the application of the risk policies, remaining within the risk appetite, identifying and evaluating significant risks to the business, and for designing and operating appropriate controls to manage those risks.
The Group uses a standard risk assessment process for identifying and evaluating significant risks to the achievement of its business objectives.
Risk information is reported through the management and governance structure to the Executive Committee and Board Risk Committee as appropriate.
The Group has a specialist Group Risk function, reporting to the Group Risk Director.
Group Risk comprises separate Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit functions.
37 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 39 Corporate Governance Report continued Principal Risks & Uncertainties The principal risks facing the group are considered to be inherent within both our business model and the market environment within which we operate.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group can therefore be summarised under two headings: Business Model Risks Business Model Risks are those risks which naturally occur as a result of SJPs chosen strategy and methods of conducting business.
The principal risks in this area are: inability to maintain and develop the capacity of our distribution strength through the recruitment, retention and development of high quality advisers The Partnership: loss of the ability to deliver the SJP Investment Management Approach and to ensure that this continues to meet client, Partner and investor expectations: the insurance and persistency risks associated with the business we conduct, including adverse morbidity or mortality experience: the threat of a significant new entrant to the Wealth Management sector: and reputational risks which could arise from, for example, the highly regulated market in which we operate.
External Environment Risks The wider business and political environment in which we operate, and the regulation to which it is subject, also gives rise to a number of potential risks for SJP.
Whilst these risks are very varied, the principal risks faced in this area are: the potential for fundamental changes in legislation which could have a detrimental impact on our business plan, including for example, changes to taxation regimes or the Welfare State system: the potential for unexpected changes to the Financial Services Authoritys statutory objectives and the manner in which they regulate the UK financial services industry: a major and or prolonged economic downturn or stock market crash: and the loss of a key supplier or business partner.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This includes a responsibility for financial, operational and compliance controls in managing the risks inherent in the business.
The Audit and Risk Committees of the Board along with the appropriately staffed and qualied Internal Audit, Risk Management and Compliance functions support the Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities.
The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Code throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas and have established processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Adherence to regulatory codes of conduct is required at all times and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
In addition to these ongoing procedures, the Audit Committee conducts an annual review that considers the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and other risk management systems.
The review also includes the nature and scope of the ongoing monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the internal audit function, and the potential impact on these processes as a result of any changes during the year to the risks that the Group faces.
38 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 40 Corporate Governance Report continued When control issues of signicance have occurred the Audit Committee has received full and detailed reports from management and internal audit, including proposals for amending and strengthening the business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on continuous improvement.
Where appropriate, such cases have been taken forward to the Board by the Chairman of the Audit Committee for noting and discussion.
In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore designed to manage, rather than eliminate risks and as such can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In the Boards view, the information it has received from entity wide risk assessment, operational management, and the reports issued by the internal auditors was sufficient to enable it to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control Turnbull.
Statement of Business Practice To further the Groups continued commitment to Corporate Governance, the Company has published a statement of business practice.
This statement, in the form of a booklet entitled Our Approach, is provided to all employees and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership and covers areas such as: the Groups objectives: the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and value is maintained: the Groups corporate culture and management style: how the Group deals with internal and external communication: and the Groups commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation, a charitable trust, more details of which can be found on pages 20 to 22.
The booklet emphasises the values of integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and standards.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Report & Accounts and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides that, in relation to such financial statements, references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
39 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 41 Corporate Governance Report continued The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Ofcers Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the methodology contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the Directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: identied and described the business covered by the EEV Principles: applied the EEV Principles consistently to the covered business: determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
