Corporate Governance The Board of Standard Chartered PLC is responsible for the The Board overall management of the Group and for ensuring that proper The Board is made up of the Chairman, four executive directors standards of corporate governance are maintained.
and eight independent non-executive directors and is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
All the directors are This report has been prepared in accordance with the principles subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their and provisions of the Code of Best Practice in the Combined appointment and then to re-election at intervals of no more Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting than three years.
Council in July 2003 and amended in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The directors confirm that throughout the period the The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code matters specifically reserved for its decision.
These matters except that the Chairman did not meet the independence criteria include determining and reviewing the strategy of the Company upon appointment as set out in the Combined Code, and that and the Group, overseeing the Groups compliance with statutory meeting major shareholders is not currently part of the induction and regulatory obligations and issues relating to the Companys programme for non-executive directors.
Explanations of these and the Groups capital.
exceptions and the rationale for the appointment of the Chairman It is also responsible for the Groups structure and areas of are given in the sections Chairman and Group Chief Executive operation, financial reporting, ensuring there is a sound system and Independent Non-Executive Directors below.
Apart from of internal control and risk management and appointments to these exceptions, the following report explains how the the Board.
The Board delegates matters to the executive Company applies the principles of the Combined Code.
directors and other senior management.
The Company is a public company, listed on both the London The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year.
At least two and Hong Kong stock exchanges, and has sufficient share capital of these meetings are usually held in countries where the Group in public hands.
operates outside the United Kingdom.
The directors use these The directors confirm that, throughout the financial year, overseas visits to meet staff, corporate customers and the Company complied with the provisions of Appendix 14 government and regulatory officials.
The directors are given accurate, timely and clear information The directors confirm that the Company has in place a code of so that they can maintain full and effective control over strategic, conduct regarding securities transactions by directors on terms financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the HK Listing The following table shows the number of Board and Rules and that the directors of the Company complied with this Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance code of conduct throughout the financial period.
Corporate Board Board Responsibility Audit & Risk Board Nomination Board Remuneration and Board Board Audit & Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Community Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Ad hoc Committee Ad hoc Committee Ad hoc Committee Number of meetings in 2006 8 4 6 3 2 2 5 1 3 E M Davies 8 3 1 1 0 0 3 P A Sands 8 4 1 1 Sir CK Chow 8 3 M B DeNoma 8 3 J F T Dundas 8 4 6 3 3 V F Gooding 7 3 3 R H P Markham 7 4 6 3 2 2 R Markland 8 4 6 3 2 2 5 1 R H Meddings 8 3 K S Nargolwala 8 3 P D Skinner 7 3 5 1 O H J Stocken 7 2 4 1 Lord Turner 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 1 Ho KwonPing 1 3 0 1 1 2 0 0 H E Norton 8 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 5 1 B K Sanderson 7 8 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 Mr Davies was appointed as Group Chairman on 20 November 2006 and became Chairman of both the Board Nomination Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee on the same day.
Mr Sands was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 20 November 2006 and became a member of the Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee on the same day.
Lord Turner was appointed as an Independent Non-executive Director on 1 August 2006 and was appointed as a member of both the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board Remuneration Committee on the same day.
Mr Ho retired from the Board on 4 May 2006, Mr Sanderson resigned as a director and Group Chairman on 19 November 2006 and Mr Norton retired from the Board on 31 December 2006.
56 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The directors have a range of skills and experience and each The reviews of the non-executive directors who have served on brings an independent judgement and considerable knowledge the Board for more than six years are covered in the section on to the Boards discussions.
On appointment, each director the work of the Board Nomination Committee below.
receives a comprehensive and tailored induction covering the Mr R H P Markham is the Senior Independent Director and can Groups business and operations and also the legal, regulatory be contacted in writing at the Companys registered office.
and other obligations of a director of a dual-listed company.
As well as a formal induction, directors receive training through a Although not part of their induction programme, the non-executive formal and structured programme to continually develop and directors have the opportunity, if they wish, to attend meetings update their knowledge and capabilities.
Where an independent with major shareholders and analysts and they receive, in a non-executive director is appointed to one of the Boards standing timely manner, accurate information reflecting the views of the committees, additional training is given which is relevant to the Companys institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Lord Turner was appointed as an Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet with the Senior independent non-executive director on 1 August 2006 and Independent Director to discuss any issues or concerns if they has completed his induction programme.
The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in The Board is aware of the other commitments of its nonrespect of legal proceedings and other claims against its directors.
executive directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict In addition, the Company has granted qualifying third party with their duties as directors of the Company.
Changes to the indemnities to the directors of the Company subject to and commitments of the non-executive directors are reported to on terms consistent with the Companys articles of association the Board.
The terms and conditions of the non-executive directors The Boards executive directors are not allowed more than one appointments are available for inspection at the Companys non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
the directors other directorships can be found in their Board Committees biographies on page 51.
The Board has four standing committees with specific delegated Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Group Chief Executive authorities: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board Nomination Mr E M Davies was appointed as Group Chairman on Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee and the Corporate 20 November 2006.
Immediately prior to this, Mr Davies had Responsibility and Community Committee.
Details of these been the Group Chief Executive.
In considering its decision committees and their members are given below.
to appoint Mr Davies, the Board noted the provisions of the Audit and Risk Committee Combined Code regarding such appointments and took into The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are: account the complexity of the international banking environment in which the Group operates, the magnitude of the Group and Mr R H P Markham chairman the diversity of its businesses and people.
The Board believed Mr J F T Dundas that there were significant benefits for the Company in continuity Ms R Markland as well as the leadership skills that Mr Davies would bring to the Lord Turner role of Chairman.
After careful consideration of all these factors, All the members of the Committee are independent nonthe Board was unanimous in its decision to appoint Mr Davies.
The Board considers that each member In accordance with the Provision A.
2.2 of the Combined Code, has appropriate professional qualifications and brings a broad the Companys major shareholders were consulted in advance experience and knowledge of financial reporting to the Committees of Mr Davies appointment.
The Board considered it unnecessary deliberations.
The Board is satisfied that the Committees to use the services of an external search consultant or open chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
advertising in the process for appointing the Group Chairman.
The Committee currently has six scheduled committee meetings Mr Davies is a non-executive director of Tesco PLC, Tottenham each year and a further two half-day informal meetings to consider Hotspur plc and Fleming Family & Partners Limited.
He is also more closely the Groups processes, recent developments in chairman of the Appeal Fundraising Board of Breakthrough financial reporting and regulatory matters and the way in Breast Cancer and a Trustee of the Sir Kyffin Williams Trust.
which these developments will impact or potentially impact, Significant changes to the external commitments of the the Groups businesses.
Chairman are reported to the Board.
The Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the The roles and objectives of the Chairman and the Group Chief Companys annual and interim financial statements, circulars Executive are separate and have been approved by the Board.
to shareholders and any formal announcements relating to the As announced on 20 November 2006, the Board intends to Groups financial performance, including significant financial appoint a Deputy Chairman.
reporting judgements contained in them.
The Committee also reviews the recommendations for provisions against bad Independent Non-Executive Directors or doubtful loans and other credit exposures.
It keeps under The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are review the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies independent and has received from each of them the annual and considers changes to them.
Ultimate responsibility for the confirmation of independence required by the HK Listing Rules.
approval of the annual and interim financial statements rests The names and biographies of the non-executive directors are with the Board.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and are subject to periodic re-election At least once a year, the Committee meets separately with each by shareholders in accordance with the Companys articles of of the external auditor and Group Head of Internal Audit without association.
The Chairman has regular meetings with the nonmanagement being present to discuss matters relating to the executive directors without the executive directors being present.
auditors remit and any issues arising from the audit.
com 57 Corporate Governance continued In relation to the Groups internal audit function, the Committees In the selection process for new directors, the Committee responsibilities include: can consult external advisors.
An external search consultant was used in the selection process prior to the appointment of Lord x monitoring and assessing the role and effectiveness of the Turner as an independent non-executive director.
Before Groups internal audit function and receiving reports from the recommending the appointment of a non-executive director, Group Head of Internal Audit on these matters: and the Committee considers the suitability of a candidate against the x considering the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the skills, knowledge and experience required to produce a balanced Group Head of Internal Audit.
In addition, the Committee takes into account whether the candidate would have an appropriate amount of time to devote to In relation to the Groups external auditor, the Committees their duties.
responsibilities include: During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups succession x considering and making recommendations to the Board planning processes and the succession plans relating to the on the appointment, re-appointment, resignation or dismissal Chairman, executive directors and other senior executives.
of the external auditor: Mr R H P Markham has served on the Board for more than six x approving the terms of engagement, nature and scope of years and the Committee has carried out a rigorous review of his the audit: performance and contributions to the deliberations of the Board x reviewing the findings of the audit including any major issues and the Audit and Risk Committee during 2006.
The Committee, that arose during the course of the audit: and as part of its review, has taken into account the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board and believes that Mr Markham x reviewing and monitoring the cost effectiveness of the audit continues to be committed to the Company and independent in taking into consideration relevant UK professional and character and judgement.
regulatory requirements and approving the audit fee.
Sir CK Chow has served on the Board for more than nine The Committee reviews and reports to the Board on, the Groups years and at the 2007 AGM will offer himself for re-election in compliance with relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Having The Committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls carried out a rigorous review of Sir CKs performance and and the Groups internal control and risk management systems contribution to the Board during 2006, the Committee believes and reports on these to the Board.
Details of the Companys Sir CK continues to be independent in character and judgement internal controls and how risk is managed can be found below and, in addition, believes that Sir CKs long experience as a under the heading Internal Control.
director will continue to be invaluable to the Board.
The Arrangements are in place by which the Companys employees Committee therefore fully supports the proposal for his may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in re-election as an independent non-executive director.
matters of financial reporting or other areas.
These arrangements In addition, the Committee has reviewed the performance of the are covered in the Companys Speaking Up policy, more non-executive directors standing for re-election at the 2007 AGM commonly known as a whistle-blowing policy.
The Committee and made recommendations to the Board on their re-election.
is responsible for reviewing these arrangements and for ensuring that any matters of concern are investigated appropriately.
Board Remuneration Committee The members of the Board Remuneration Committee are: Board Nomination Committee The members of the Board Nomination Committee are: Ms R Markland chairman Miss V F Gooding appointed 23 February 2007 Mr E M Davies chairman Mr P D Skinner Mr J F T Dundas appointed 23 February 2007 Mr O H J Stocken Mr R H P Markham Lord Turner Ms R Markland All of the Committee members are independent non-executive All of the Committee members, with the exception of directors.
The Committee determines the pay and benefits of the Mr Davies, are independent non-executive directors.
Group Chairman, executive directors and senior management.
The Committees responsibilities include: The remuneration of all directors and senior management is subject to regular monitoring to ensure that levels of remuneration x reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and and compensation are appropriate.
making recommendations with regard to any changes that the Committee deems necessary to ensure the Board has the A statement of the Companys remuneration policy for directors optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience: and details of the work of the Committee are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 73. x where Board vacancies arise, evaluating the skill, knowledge and experience needed to fill the vacancy, and identifying and Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee nominating suitable candidates to the Board: and The members of the Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee are: x keeping under review the succession plans for the Group relating to both directors and other senior executives and Mr E M Davies chairman making consequential recommendations to the Board.
Mr P A Sands Mr J F T Dundas The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations Miss V F Gooding for the appointment of the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive or any other director.
The Group Chairman will not The Committee considers matters relating to how Standard chair any meeting at which the Committee is considering the Chartered can build a sustainable business through consideration appointment of a successor to the Group Chairman.
of environment protection, social investment, economic 58 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 development and other corporate responsibility and Remuneration Committee each conducted a self-assessment of community matters.
A report on the results of the self-assessments was discussed by the Board.
It was not considered appropriate The Committees responsibilities include: for the Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee to x ensuring that the Groups corporate responsibility and carry out self-assessment during 2006 given that its membership community aspirations and business activities are aligned: and remit were evolving.
Individual appraisals of the directors were undertaken during 2006 by the Chairman, Group Chief x responding to emerging sustainability issues arising from new Executive and Board Nomination Committee as appropriate.
regulation, legislation, stakeholder guidance and reporting: The independent non-executive directors, led by the Senior x promoting the availability of accurate and reliable corporate Independent Director, evaluated the Chairmans performance, responsibility and community data: and taking into account the views of all the directors.
x ensuring that the Group is in a position to report annually on During 2005, a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Corporate Responsibility and Community activity in line with Board and its Committees was conducted using the services best practice.
During the year, the Committee received presentations on a range Relations with Shareholders of subjects including the responsible selling and marketing of The Board recognises the importance of good communications products and services, the Groups response to protecting the with all shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional environment and on microfinance and financial inclusion.
shareholders and general presentations are made when the financial results are announced.
The AGM is used as an The Committee ensures that the Group continues to make opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
progress in its efforts to understand and respond to the concerns and interests of stakeholders.
The Group has a formal plan for The Combined Code requires companies to post the notice of the stakeholder engagement that builds on the comprehensive work AGM to shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of already carried out on employee engagement and customer the meeting.
The Company aims to achieve this and will always satisfaction.
In 2006, this plan focused at a Group level on the give shareholders the 21 days notice required by the Companies socially responsible investment analyst community and on the Act 1985 and the HK Listing Rules.
Separate resolutions are development and environmental departments within the UK proposed for each substantially separate issue.
The network used to inform the Committee was displays the proxy voting results on each resolution at the AGM also widened to include appropriate global stakeholders.
and on the Companys website.
The notice of AGM is also available on audio cassette and CD.
The findings of this stakeholder research, alongside peer analysis and consideration of recognised corporate responsibility The Company encourages its shareholders to receive the benchmarks and indices are used in setting the agendas for Companys corporate documents electronically.
The annual and the Committees meetings.
interim financial statements, notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all available electronically.
Shareholders are also able to vote Schedule of Matters Reserved and Terms of Reference electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive and Auditor Independence and Objectivity the terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee, the The Company has adopted a policy on the use of non-audit Board Nomination Committee, the Board Remuneration services provided by the Companys external auditor, KPMG.
Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Community The Audit and Risk Committees pre-approval is required before Committee are available on the Companys website and available the Company uses non-audit services that fall within definitions for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The non-audit services of KPMG will only be used where the Company benefits in a cost-effective manner Independent Professional Advice and the auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence Directors may, in appropriate circumstances, take independent and objectivity.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
All of the directors have access to the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible In addition to audit-related services, KPMG provided the following for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable types of services in 2006: laws and regulations are complied with.
The appointment and x tax advisory and compliance: removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
x advice and support with due diligence exercises: The Boards standing committees are able to take independent x advice on IFRS accounting: professional advice or use external consultants, where appropriate, x regulatory reviews and reporting: at the Companys expense.
x corporate recovery services: and Performance Evaluation The Board is responsible for ensuring that a rigorous evaluation x risk and compliance advisory services.
is carried out of its performance, and that of its committees and Details of the amounts paid to KPMG during the year for audit individual directors.
and non-audit services are set out in note 7 to the accounts.
During 2006, each of the directors, members of the Group Going Concern Management Committee and the Group Company Secretary The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Group has completed a questionnaire and details of the comments received adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable were discussed by the Board.
In addition, the Audit and Risk future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern Committee, the Board Nomination Committee and the Board basis when preparing the financial statements.
com 59 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control rules and regulations governing anti-money laundering.
The The Board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its Written Agreement remained in place during 2006.
However, the business and financial activities in a manner which enables it to Board believes that during the year the Bank achieved substantial maximise profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks compliance with the terms of the Written Agreement.
The status which can cause loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance of this matter continues to be monitored closely by the Board.
with applicable laws and regulations, and enhance resilience to Group Code of Conduct external events.
To achieve this, the Board has established a The Board has approved a Group Code of Conduct relating to process for the identification, evaluation and management of the lawful and ethical conduct of business.
These requirements the risks faced by the Group which operated through the year are supported by the Groups core values.
The Group Code of ended 31 December 2006 and to 27 February 2007, the date Conduct has been communicated to all employees.
All employees the Board approved this annual report and accounts.
It should are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair be recognised that such a process can only provide reasonable, dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators in the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
communities in which the Group operates.
This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control: Guidance Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of The Group complies with the guidelines issued by the Association Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and revised of British Insurers on socially responsible investment and reporting in 2005.
The system of internal control of the Group is also subject on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters and is to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
committed to the communities and environments in which it operates.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is standards of responsible business are maintained and that an reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, Group effective control framework is in place.
The Group has established management, and Group Internal Audit.
The Audit and Risk and maintains policies and procedures in relation to SEE related Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system risks.
Details of these policies can be found on the Companys of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2006 and website: www.
Through the reported to the Board.
The Committees review was supported Groups risk management structure and control framework, the by an annual business self-certification process, which was Board receives regular and adequate information to identify and managed by Group Internal Audit.
assess significant risks and opportunities arising from SEE Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with policies and matters.
Formal training arrangements are in place for key standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures SEE issues, including arrangements for directors.
across the Group through its programme of business audits.
The Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest also work with line management to assist them in designing risk as determined by a risk-based assessment methodology.
procedures to ensure compliance with these requirements.
In Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit and Risk every country, the Country Management Committee Manco Committee, the Chairman and to the Group Chief Executive.
supported by the Country Operational Risk Group CORG is The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Chairman responsible for ensuring there are risk management frameworks and to the Group Chief Executive and immediate corrective in place to monitor, manage and report SEE risk.
The Country action is required.
Chief Executives chair both the Mancos and CORGs.
The Risk Review on pages 34 to 48 describes the Groups risk Compliance with these policies and procedures is the management structure.
The Groups business is conducted responsibility of all managers.
In assessing, incentivising and within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy rewarding performance, guidance to managers was published statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This explicitly states that account should be taken that there are written policies and procedures to identify and of adherence to all relevant Group policies, including those manage risk including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and emerging regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk and credit risks are escalated to senior management through clearly risk.
The Board has established a management structure that documented internal reporting procedures such as Manco.
clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated Key areas of risk are those associated with customers social authorities are documented and communicated.
Executive risk issues and any impact they may have on the natural environment.
committees review regularly the Groups risk profile.
The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly and that failure to manage them adequately would have an to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends adverse impact on the Groups business.
These risks are and forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets implicitly recognised in reaching lending decisions explicitly and prior periods, are monitored closely.
Financial information is identified in the Groups lending policies.
During 2006, the Group prepared using appropriate accounting policies, which are applied adopted the revised Equator Principles 2 that set procedures, consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have been based on the International Finance Corporation guidelines, for established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing recognising the environmental and social impacts and risks of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls associated with project finance.
The Principles have been include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation embedded in the Groups project finance lending policy of accounts, and the valuation of assets and positions.
Compliance and Regulatory Matters The Group continues to review and, where appropriate, During 2004, Standard Chartered Bank entered into a Written strengthen its money laundering prevention policies, procedures Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the and training.
New York State Banking Department to address deficiencies The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
relating to compliance with applicable federal and state laws, 60 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006
