SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate information Corporate governance 39 The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles of, and complied with, the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
Application of code principles The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the best practice provisions in Section 1 of the Code.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy, decides on individual fund investments and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and, where appropriate, future prospects in annual and interim reports and other forms of public reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence The Board currently consists of one executive and eight non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Proles of each of the Directors, including age and length of service, may be found on pages 30 and 31.
The Board considers each of Francis Finlay, Anthony Habgood, Edgar Koning, Denis Raeburn, Charles Sinclair and Gary Steinberg to be independent.
The independence of each Director is considered on a continuing basis.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience, and that no individual or group of individuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
The role of the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Senior Independent Director Anthony Habgood was appointed as Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 December 2004.
The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
As part of the evaluation process, the non-executive Directors meet without the Chairman being present, and the Senior Independent Director chairs these meetings.
Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with Executive Management.
The independence of non-executive Directors will continue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In order to allow shareholders the opportunity to endorse this policy, however, any non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
Performance evaluation The Board has adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The last evaluation was completed in March 2007.
The evaluation is in two stages.
First, the evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the evaluation of the Chairmans performance is led by the Senior Independent Director.
Evaluation is conducted utilising a questionnaire.
Secondly, the Board evaluates its own performance and that of its Committees.
The Board has developed criteria for use at the evaluation, which focuses on the individual contribution to the Board and its Committees made by each Director and the responsibilities, composition and agenda of the Committees and of the Board itself.
SVG Capital plc Corporate information Annual Report and Accounts 2006 40 Corporate governance continued Meetings The Board held five scheduled meetings during 2006.
Additional meetings were also arranged as required.
Attendance at the five scheduled meetings was as set out below: Maximum Meetings possible Director attended attendance Nicholas Ferguson 55 Damon Bufni 45 Francis Finlay 55 Anthony Habgood 55 Edgar Koning 25 Denis Raeburn 55 Charles Sinclair 55 Andrew Williams 55 The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to full their duties as Directors.
Information ows Management reports to the Board on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specic matters.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and internal controls.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to committees.
Terms of Reference, as well as details of membership and activities for all Committees of the Board, are set out on the following pages.
The Board keeps under review the composition of each of its Committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects of the Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board also receives feedback on the views of shareholders from its corporate broker.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
Proceedings include a presentation on the activities of the Company.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the chairmen of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year-end is valuable.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 81 to 85 sets out the business of the meeting.
Going concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, and in accordance with IAS 10, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate information 41 Internal control The Code requires the Board to at least annually conduct a review of the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal control and report to shareholders that it has done so.
The Board has undertaken a full review of all the aspects of the Turnbull Guidance for Directors, as revised in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance under which the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has approved a detailed Risk Map identifying significant strategic, investment-related, operational and service provider-related risks and has adopted an enhanced monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis.
The Board believes that the key risks identied and the implementation of an ongoing system to identify, evaluate and manage these risks are based upon and relevant to the Groups business as an investment trust.
The ongoing risk assessment, which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control including whistleblowing polices where appropriate adopted by major service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identied at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Groups performance or condition.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control in place this can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
The Company has appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP to review its risk prole.
This process is underway and the findings will be reported to the Audit Committee.
