Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 22 Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The Board attaches great importance to ensuring that the Company operates to high ethical and There were seven Board meetings, two audit committee meetings and two nomination compliance standards.
In addition, the Board committee meetings held during the year and the seeks to observe the principles set out in the AIC attendance by the directors was as follows: Code of Corporate Governance, established specifically for investment trust companies and Number of meetings attended endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council in February 2006.
By following the Code, the Audit Nomination Company continues to meet its obligations in Board Committee Committee relation to the FRCs Combined Code on John Reeve 7 2 2 Corporate Governance.
Gary Allen 5 2 The Code provides a guide to best practice in June fide Moller 7 2 2 certain areas of governance where the specific Richard Jewson 5 1 2 characteristics of investment trusts suggest that Martin Riley 7 2 2 alternative approaches to those set out in the Field Walton 7 2 2 Combined Code may be preferable.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE Independence of the Directors AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Each of the directors is independent of any association with the management company and Operation of the Board has no other relationships or circumstances Each of the directors is independent of any which might be perceived to interfere with the association with the management company exercise of independent judgement.
Two of the which might interfere with the exercise of six directors Mr Reeve and Mr Walton have independent judgement.
There is a formal served on the Board for more than nine years schedule of matters to be specifically approved from the date of their first election, but given the by the Board and individual directors may seek nature of the Company as an investment trust independent advice at the expense of the and the strongly independent mindset of the Company within certain limits.
The Board has individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the delegated the investment management, within view that all of the directors can be considered clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, to be independent.
In arriving at this conclusion and the administration of the business to the Board makes a clear distinction between the Investec Investment Management Limited IIM.
activities of an investment trust and a The Board makes all strategic decisions, reviews conventional trading company.
An investment the performance of the Company at Board trust has no employees or executive directors, meetings and sets the objectives for the the only significant relationship being with the Managers.
The directors have a range of business management company.
In overseeing this and financial skills or experience relevant to the relationship it is the view of the Board that long direction of the Company.
Mr G J Allen is the service aids the understanding, judgement, Senior Independent Director.
objectivity and independence of the directors The Company Secretary is responsible to the and in no way detracts from any of these Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board qualities.
procedures are followed and for compliance with Re-election of directors applicable rules and regulations including the AIC Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated Directors are subject to re-election by representative of the Corporate Company shareholders at the first AGM following their Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter appointment and, thereafter, are subject to for the Board as a whole.
retirement by rotation at intervals of no more than three years.
In addition, the appointment of The content and presentation of Board papers each director is reviewed by other members of circulated before each meeting contain sufficient the Board every year.
Directors are not, information on the financial condition of the therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
Key representatives of IIM attend each Non-executive directors are not appointed for Board meeting enabling directors to probe on 22 Temple Bar Investment Trust Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 23 specified terms.
Because of the nature of an overall composition of the Board from time to investment trust the Board believes that the time, taking into account the existing balance of contribution and independence of a director is skills and knowledge.
not diminished by long service and, conversely, The committee is also responsible for assessing that a more detailed knowledge of the Company the individual performance of directors and for and its business has a beneficial impact.
making recommendations as to whether they The directors due to stand for re-election at the should remain in office.
This committee is chaired forthcoming AGM are Mr Allen, Mr Reeve and by Mr Reeve.
The Board has carefully considered Upon appointment to the Board each director the position of each of these directors and receives relevant background information on the believes it would be appropriate for them to be Company together with a summary of the duties proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors and responsibilities of directors.
When a director continues to be effective and to display an is appointed an induction meeting is arranged by undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the the Manager covering details about the role.
Company, its Manager, legal responsibilities, investment processes and investment trust Chairman industry matters.
Directors have also taken part The Chairman has no relationships that may in various training specific to non-executive create a conflict of interest between his interest directors, including courses and conferences run and those of shareholders.
He has never been an by the AIC.
employee or an adviser to the Manager nor does he serve on the boards of other investment Remuneration Committee trusts managed by the same Manager.
As all the directors are fully independent of the He is also non-executive chairman of one other management company, the board as a whole quoted company and a director of a number of fulfils the function of a remuneration committee.
He does not have a full time Board Audit Committee Nomination executive role in any organisation and the Board Committee Director ongoing evaluation is satisfied that he has sufficient time available On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its to discharge fully his responsibility as Chairman performance, together with that of the audit and of the Company.
nomination committees and the effectiveness Audit Committee and contribution of the individual directors, The audit committee is a formally constituted including the Chairman, within the context of committee of the Board with defined terms of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses reference which are available for inspection at an assessment of how cohesively these bodies the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered work as a whole as well as the performance of Office of the Company.
It normally meets twice the individuals within them.
On the basis of these yearly and among its specific responsibilities are reviews the Board has concluded that it has a a review of the audit plan for the year, the review proper balance of skills and is operating of the Companys annual and half yearly results, effectively.
together with associated documentation, and the Relations with Shareholders review of the internal and financial controls Shareholder relations are given high priority by applicable to the management company.
All of both the Board and the Manager.
The principal the directors are members of the audit medium by which the Company communicates committee and the Chairman is Mr Allen.
The with shareholders is through the interim and auditors, who the Board has identified as being annual reports.
The information contained independent, are invited to attend the audit therein is supplemented by regular NAV committee meeting at which the annual accounts announcements and by a monthly factsheet are considered and any other meetings that the available on the Companys website.
The Board largely delegates responsibility for Nomination Committee communication with shareholders to the A nomination committee has been established to management company and, through feedback, oversee a formal review procedure governing the expects to be able to develop an understanding appointment of new directors and to evaluate the Temple Bar Investment Trust 23 Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 24 Corporate governance continued of their views.
The current shareholding independent reputable custodian with whom the constituency of the Company is such that there holdings are regularly reconciled.
is only one major shareholder.
All members of The effectiveness of the overall system of the Board are willing to meet with shareholders internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by at any time for the purpose of discussing matters the Board.
Such a system can provide only in relation to the operation and prospects of the reasonable and not absolute assurance against Company.
The Board The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM believes that there is a robust framework of and encourages questions and discussion on internal controls in place to meet the issues of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In requirements of the AIC Code.
addition, special arrangements have been The Board receives reports from its advisers on established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme internal control matters and does not believe investors to participate fully at Annual General that there is scope or necessity for an internal Meetings.
A separate resolution will be proposed audit function in addition to that employed by at the AGM in respect of each substantially the Manager.
This matter is subject to periodic separate issue.
Following the formal AGM review.
Based on the foregoing the Group and proceedings the Manager makes a presentation the Company has a continuing process for to the meeting outlining the key investment identifying, evaluating and managing the risks it issues that face the Company.
This process has been in place for the reporting period and to the date of this report Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit and is regularly reviewed by the Board in The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that accordance with the requirements of the all documents released by the Group and the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Company, including the Annual Report, present a Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance and the fair and accurate assessment of the Group and Combined Code.
the Companys position and prospects.
Socially Responsible Investment After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the The Board believes that its primary duty is to act Company has adequate resources to continue in in the best financial interests of the Company operational existence for the foreseeable future, and its shareholders.
While the Board takes including recourse to a 25 million overdraft account of the ethical stance of investee facility with HSBC Bank.
Accordingly, the companies on matters such as the environment directors continue to adopt the going concern or society as a whole, the ultimate objective is to basis in preparing the accounts.
deliver superior investment returns for shareholders.
The directors are responsible for the Group and the Companys system of internal control and for Exercise of Voting Rights reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate The Managers have been instructed to vote on the control process the Board has requested the behalf of the Company in accordance with Managers to confirm annually that they have recommendations put forward by the National conducted the Group and the Companys affairs Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the in compliance with the legal and regulatory Managers wish to vote in a different way to the obligations which apply to the Group and the recommendation of the NAPF this requires the Company and to report on the systems and specific approval of the Board.
procedures within Investec which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an 24 Temple Bar Investment Trust
