12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 27 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report expertise on which they may lead when issues arise, and The Board of Directors the Board the directors is to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The directors accountable to shareholders for the governance of the biographies, on page 21, demonstrate the breadth of Companys affairs.
investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
Application of the AITC Codes Principles This statement describes how the principles of the revised Board Committees AITC Code of Corporate Governance the AITC Code The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies on page 29.
The Board does not have a Nominations in February 2006, have been applied to the affairs of the Committee, Remuneration Committee or a Management Company.
Prior to February 2006 the Company reported Engagement Committee: the functions of each of these on how it had complied with the Combined Code on committees are carried out by the Board as part of the Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting agendas of regular Board meetings.
In February 2006, the Tenure Policy FRC confirmed that investment trust companies who No director has a contract of employment with the report against the revised AITC Code instead of the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment Combined Code on Corporate Governance will be are set out in letters of appointment which are available deemed to have met their obligations under paragraph for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company 9.8.
and will be available at the AGM.
The principles laid down by the two Codes are similar but The Companys Articles of Association provide that up to there are some areas where the AITC Code is more one-third of the directors must retire by rotation at each specifically applicable to investment trust companies.
In AGM, but may then offer themselves for re-election.
The complying with the AITC Code, the Company is not terms of the directors appointments also provide that a required to report on the role of a chief executive, director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after executive directors remuneration and the need for an appointment and to re-election at least every third year internal audit function, which are all irrelevant to thereafter.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, investment trust companies.
all directors must retire by the next AGM after they attain The AITC Code comprises 21 principles.
The directors the age of 70. attach importance to the matters set out in the AITC Code The Board believes that each of the directors exercises and believe that, during the period under review, they have independent judgement and that length of service does complied with all of the principles of the AITC Code.
not diminish the contribution from a director.
The Board is Composition and Independence of the Board conscious of the need to maintain continuity on the The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom Board, and believes that retaining directors with sufficient are non-executive and are independent of the Investment experience and extensive knowledge of the Company and Manager.
No director has served on the Board for more the markets is of great positive benefit to shareholders.
than nine years: none has any other links to the Moreover, long-serving directors are less likely to take a Investment Manager: they all have other professional short-term view.
Accordingly, all five directors are regarded as Performance Evaluation being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its respect of independence arise.
Audit Committee and of the individual directors, the The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
A senior independent Chairman has put in place, and carried out, an appraisal director has not been identified as the Board considers process.
This was implemented by way of a questionnaire that all the directors have different qualities and areas of and interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the TR Property Investment Trust 27 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 28 Corporate Governance continued Chairman, the interview was conducted by the Chairman Directors Training When a new director is appointed, he she is offered of the Audit Committee.
The process is considered by the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key information on the improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committee, the contribution of individual directors, Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, The Chairman confirms that, in the light of the formal statutory and industry matters.
performance evaluation, the performance of each of the Board Meetings directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role, including commitment of time The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee held during the year under review, and the for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience, attendance of individual directors, are shown below: ages and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
Meetings Board Audit The performance of the Company is considered in detail at No.
of meetings in the year 6 3 Peter Salsbury 6 3 each Board meeting.
Caroline Burton 6 3 Jeremy Newsum 6 3 Directors Remuneration Richard Stone 6 3 As the Board has no executive directors and no Peter Wolton 6 3 employees and is comprised solely of non-executive In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, directors, a Remuneration Committee has not been directors also attend a number of informal meetings to established.
The Board determines and approves directors represent the interests of the Group.
fees following proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees payable to non-executive directors in the The Board industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and the the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are time committed to the Companys affairs.
monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework which has been agreed with the managers.
Additional The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a fees payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 per formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration decision, which are categorised under various headings, arrangements for the directors of the Company can be including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 22. reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share Appointment of New Directors price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, The directors have determined that, due to the size of the investment restrictions, performance, corporate Board and the independence of each of its members, governance and Board membership and appointments.
there is no requirement for a separate Nominations In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, Committee.
all directors have full and timely access to relevant The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the responsible for succession planning.
The Board has an Companys investment performance and considers open mind regarding the use of external recruitment financial analyses and other reports of an operational consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset 28 TR Property Investment Trust 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 29 Corporate Governance continued allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the The Board has established a process for identifying, Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the the management of the investment portfolio, which is Group.
The process is subject to regular review by the contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
investments and any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
It has The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance system of internal controls, and the business risks have of their duties, to take independent professional advice at been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is the expense of the Company.
The Board receives each quarter a formal report from each of the Investment Manager, the Further details of the Boards consideration of key Administrator and the Corporate Secretary detailing the operational matters is contained in the Business Review steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those section of the Report of the Directors on pages 23 to 25. that are not directly their responsibility, and which report Internal Controls the details of any known internal control failures.
The The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems Board also has direct access to company secretarial of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
advice and services provided by Henderson Secretarial The Investment Manager is responsible for the day to day Services Limited, which, through its nominated investment management decisions on behalf of the Group.
representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board Accounting and Company Secretarial services have both and Committee procedures are followed and that been outsourced.
A statement of these responsibilities is applicable regulations are complied with.
shown on pages 23 to 26 in the Report of the Directors.
Audit Committee The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are members of the Board.
The Committee Chairman is maintained, and the financial information used within the Mr Stone.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks Committee member has recent and relevant financial identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and experience.
risk management, is embedded in the controls of the The Committee has written terms of reference, which Group by a series of regular investment performance and clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be attribution statements, financial and risk analyses and found on the website, are available on request, and will Fund Manager reports, and quarterly control reports.
Key also be available for inspection at the AGM.
risks have been identified and controls put in place to mitigate them, including those not directly the The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of to review the accounting policies and significant financial the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Corporate reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports appointment, remuneration, the quality of the services of from them.
The control systems are designed to provide the service providers to the Company, and, together with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material the Investment Manager, reviews the Companys misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, compliance with financial reporting and regulatory risk of failure to achieve objectives.
Representatives of the Investment TR Property Investment Trust 29 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 30 Corporate Governance continued Managers, Administrators and Corporate Secretarys Voting Policy The Board has approved a corporate governance voting internal audit and compliance departments may attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is without the presence of the representatives of the Investment Manager.
through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at Companys activities and their results.
This information the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the Appointment of the Investment Manager publication at the London Stock Exchange of the net As the Board comprises all independent directors, no asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a separate Management Engagement Committee has been monthly factsheet.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Fund Manager The Board has delegated to external third parties, following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have including the Investment Manager, the management of the the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
All the safeguarding of assets, the day to day accounting, shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
company secretarial, administration and registration It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the and cost of the services offered, including the control AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are the Company.
These contracts are reviewed annually by invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the the Board.
The Board and the Investment Manager registered address given on page 63. operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All The Board receives and considers regular performance meetings between the Fund Manager and shareholders reports from the Investment Manager, the Administrator are reported to the Board.
and the Corporate Secretary, and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Socially Responsible Investment Good corporate governance extends to a companys The Board reviews the performance of the Investment policies on the environment, employment, human rights Manager at each Board meeting, and is responsible for an and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an annual review of the terms of the Management Agreement increasingly important role in global economic activity and to ensure the terms remain competitive and sensible to the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a shareholders and to determine whether or not the companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of Investment Manager should be retained.
At the Board government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing meeting in January 2006, the Board confirmed that Thames damage to its business or reputation.
The Companys River Capital LLP should be retained as the Investment policy remains the long-term maximisation of shareholders Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2007. total return.
