Corporate Governance Report The directors are responsible for the development of strategy.
John Spencer corporate governance of the Group.
has been nominated by the Board as They support the principles of good Senior Independent Non-executive corporate governance and code of Director.
The Senior Independent Nonbest practice laid down by the Revised executive Director has responsibility for Combined Code issued in 2003 and dealing with any shareholders who adopted by the Financial Services have concerns, which contact through Authority following the Higgs and the normal channels of Chairman, Smith reviews.
Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such Throughout the year ended contact is inappropriate.
The Board 31 December 2006 the Board believes believes that these arrangements it has complied with the principles and facilitate the effective management provisions recommended by the Revised of the business and provide a strong Combined Code.
The manner in which the Company The directors biographies, shown on has applied the principles of good page 10, demonstrate a range of governance set out in the Revised experience and sufficient calibre to Combined Code during 2006 is bring independent judgement on issues outlined below.
of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to Directors the success of the Group.
The Board is The Board currently comprises two responsible to shareholders for the executive directors, six non-executive proper management of the Group.
directors and the Chairman, whose A Statement of the Directors biographies are set out on page 10.
Responsibilities in respect of the All of the non-executive directors are accounts is set out on page 22, and considered to be independent under a statement on going concern is set any of the relevant codes and out below.
The Board has established Audit, The Chairmans role under the Remuneration and Nominations Companys arrangements is as a Committees to which it has delegated non-executive and the current some of its responsibilities.
Each of the Chairman, Keith Hamill was, at Committees has detailed terms of appointment, independent of the reference and a schedule of business Company and the management.
The to be transacted during the year.
Chairman is responsible for the conduct The responsibilities of each of the of the Board and its oversight of the Committees together with an overview Companys affairs and strategy and the of their meetings during the year are administration of the Board.
Executive, Terry Smith, is responsible for the management of the business, the co-ordination of its activities and the The Board and Committee attendance record during 2006 of the directors who held office at the end of the year is as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Terry Smith 11 11 Paul Mainwaring 2 2 Louis Scotto 11 11 Non-executive Directors Keith Hamill 11 11 1 1 David Clark 11 11 5 5 1 1 Michael Fallon 11 11 5 5 4 4 1 1 Richard Kilsby 10 11 5 5 3 4 1 1 Bernard Leaver 10 11 3 4 0 1 John Spencer 8 11 4 5 2 4 0 1 excludes meetings of Committees of the Board appointed to complete business approved by the Board or routine business.
14 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006 In addition to the above the Chairman General Meeting.
The Board considers Audit Committee met with the non-executive directors that Rupert Robsons extensive The Audit Committee is chaired by without the executive directors being knowledge of the City and the financial Richard Kilsby, who has recent and present and the senior independent services industry will be of value to the relevant financial experience.
The other non-executive director met with the Board and accordingly proposes that he members of the Audit Committee are other non-executive directors without should be elected.
Paul Mainwaring is a John Spencer, David Clark, Michael the Chairman being present to evaluate chartered accountant and experienced Fallon and Rupert Robson, all of whom the Chairmans performance.
finance director and the Board also are Independent Non-executive Appropriate feedback was provided proposes that he be elected.
Keith Hamill attends Audit following these meetings.
The Chairman Committee meetings by invitation.
has also provided appropriate feedback Reviews of the performance of the to the non-executive directors.
Board, its Committees and individual The Companys external auditors, the directors in respect of the previous executive directors and the heads of Board administration financial year have been undertaken.
Risk Control and Internal Audit may The Board has a schedule of eight In this process, consideration was given attend Committee meetings by meetings per annum to discuss the to whether the Board or Committee invitation.
The Committee has a Groups ordinary course of business.
fulfilled its terms of reference discussion with the external auditors Every effort is made to arrange these satisfactorily, whether the terms of at least once a year without executive meetings so that all directors can reference needed to be revised, whether directors being present, to ensure attend: additional meetings are the administration operated effectively that there are no unresolved issues arranged as required.
During the year and whether individual directors of concern.
additional meetings were required to performed their roles effectively.
The deal with specific projects such as the non-executive directors are responsible Throughout 2006 the Committees demerger of Collins Stewart plc.
for assessing the effectiveness of the terms of reference included monitoring Chairman in his absence.
the integrity of the financial statements, The Board and its Committees are reviewing the scope and findings of provided with appropriate information In the event that any of the executive the external audit, assessing the on a timely basis to enable them to directors wished to take up a independence and objectivity of discharge their duties.
The Board has non-executive appointment with the external auditors and making a formal schedule of matters reserved another company, the Board would be recommendations for the to it for decision, including, inter alia, amenable to such a proposal, provided re-appointment or removal of the developing the future direction of the that the time commitment involved external auditors, monitoring the Groups business, agreeing policies would not be too onerous.
Following internal audit function, reviewing the and procedures, approving material the demerger of Collins Stewart plc on effectiveness of the Companys internal transactions, budgets and borrowings 19 December 2006, Terry Smith became control procedures, overseeing and and monitoring the Groups progress.
Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
In that assessing the risk control system and All directors receive written reports capacity, Mr Smiths annual fee will be reviewing arrangements by which staff prior to each Board meeting which 200,000, which he will retain.
may, in confidence, raise concerns enable them to make an informed about improprieties.
decision on corporate and business The terms and conditions of issues under review.
All Board meetings appointment of the non-executive During the year the Audit Committee are minuted and any unresolved directors will be available for inspection reviewed the cost effectiveness, concerns are recorded in such minutes.
during normal business hours on any objectivity and independence of the Beneath the Board there is a structure weekday other than public holidays external auditors and the level of fees of delegated authority which sets out at the Companys offices from the date received in respect of the various the authority levels allocated to the the notice of Annual General Meeting services provided by them in addition individual directors and senior is posted until the conclusion of the to the audit during 2006.
confirmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe that the level of The terms of the directors service All directors have access to the services non-audit fees had affected their agreements and letters of appointment of the Company Secretary and there independence.
The Audit Committee are summarised in the Report on are procedures in place for taking additionally considered the professional Directors Remuneration.
All directors independent professional advice at and regulatory guidance on auditor are subject to election by shareholders the Companys expense if required.
independence and was satisfied with at the first Annual General Meeting of The Company arranges insurance cover the auditors representations.
The Audit shareholders after their appointment.
in respect of legal action against the Committees policy is to use the most Thereafter, any director who has held directors.
The Company Secretary is appropriate advisers for non-audit office for three years or more is required responsible for ensuring that the Board work, taking account of the need to to retire by rotation at the Annual keeps up to date with key changes in maintain independence.
In considering General Meeting but is entitled to seek legislation which affect the Company.
and approving the engagement of the re-election.
At the forthcoming Annual The appointment or removal of the auditors to advise in connection with General Meeting in June, Paul Company Secretary is a matter reserved the demerger and return of capital, Mainwaring and Rupert Robson will be for the Board.
the Audit Committee took into account subject to election as they have been the fact that other professional advisers appointed since the last Annual were also engaged to assist with the project.
Tullett Prebon plc 15 Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee is responsible for The Chief Executive attends certain following meetings with the reviewing the interim and preliminary parts of meetings of the Remuneration recommended candidates.
announcements of results and the Committee by invitation.
The Chairman statutory accounts prior to their approval does not attend meetings where his The terms of reference of the by the Board.
When conducting the own remuneration is being discussed.
Nominations Committee will be review, the Committee considers the Further details of the Companys available for inspection during normal continuing appropriateness of the policies on remuneration, service business hours on any week day other accounting policies, judgements made contracts and share options are given in than public holidays at the Companys in the production of the numbers and the Report on Directors Remuneration.
offices from the date the notice of the adequacy and appropriateness of Annual General Meeting is posted until disclosures.
The terms of reference of the the conclusion of the Annual General Remuneration Committee will be Meeting and are also available on the The Committee has reviewed available for inspection during normal Companys website.
arrangements by which staff may, in business hours on any week day other confidence, raise concerns about than public holidays at the Companys The Nominations Committee met once improprieties in matters of financial offices from the date the notice of during 2006. reporting or other matters.
In Annual General Meeting is posted until conducting the review, the Committee the conclusion of the Annual General Risk management and internal also took into account whether the Meeting, and are also available on the control policies were in line with the Companys website.
The Board is responsible for setting the recommendations set out in CP101 Groups risk appetite and ensuring that published by the Financial Services The Remuneration Committee met four it has an appropriate and effective risk Authority.
times during 2006. management framework and monitors the ongoing process for identifying, The Audit Committee received reports Nominations Committee evaluating, managing and reporting the from the internal audit function during The Nominations Committee is chaired significant risks faced by the Group.
The the year and reviewed the schedule of by the Chairman and all of the nonBoard is also responsible for the Groups work proposed by the internal audit executive directors are members.
The system of internal control and for department, the resources available to terms of reference of the Nominations reviewing its effectiveness.
In carry out the schedule and key findings.
Committee provide that the Chairman discharging its responsibilities in this A system of reporting to follow up on of the Board would not be permitted to respect, the Board has appointed the all matters raised by both internal and chair the Committee if it were dealing Audit Committee to carry out the external audit was taken into account with the issue of his replacement.
annual review of the effectiveness in assessing the effectiveness of the of the internal control and risk internal audit function.
The Nominations Committee is management systems and to report responsible for proposing candidates to the Board thereon.
This process has The terms of reference of the Audit for appointment to the Board, having been in place for the year under review Committee will be available for regard to the balance of skills, and up to the date of approval of the inspection during normal business knowledge and experience of the annual report, is reviewed regularly by hours on any weekday other than Board.
The Nominations Committee the Board and accords with the Turnbull public holidays at the Companys also has responsibility for agreeing guidance appended to the Revised offices from the date the notice of and implementing procedures for the Combined Code.
Annual General Meeting is posted until selection of new Board appointments, the conclusion of the Annual General for reviewing candidate specifications The key risks facing the business Meeting, and are also available on and making recommendations to the are described in the Operating and the Companys website.
Board on all proposed new Financial Review.
These risks are appointments and on any proposed assessed before any new business is The Audit Committee met five times re-election of an existing director.
established and monitored on a day during 2006. to day basis as part of the normal For non-executive appointments, management process.
The Group has Remuneration Committee the Committee also considers the adopted a single set of policies for the The Remuneration Committee time commitment involved in the management of risk to be applied comprises Michael Fallon, who is the appointment in arriving at its decision, across all activities.
Committees Chairman, Bernard Leaver, and this is now included in all new John Spencer and Richard Kilsby and, letters of appointment.
Risk management and the operation of since the year end, Keith Hamill and the internal control systems within the Rupert Robson.
The Board has The appointment of Rupert Robson Group are primarily the responsibility of delegated the following responsibilities as a Non-executive Director was the the executive directors and the senior to the Remuneration Committee: result of a formal search process led management.
These individuals are agreeing the remuneration of the by the Chairman and using search allowed commercial independence and executive directors and the Chairman, consultants.
The appointment of Paul flexibility within parameters agreed by recommending and monitoring the Mainwaring as Finance Director was the Board to ensure that risks are level and structure of remuneration of the result of a formal search process clearly owned and managed on a day to senior management and granting share led by the Chief Executive.
Both day basis and that systems of control options under the Companys share appointments were subject to operate effectively.
Nominations Committee approval, 16 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006 Under the overall supervision of the The Audit Committee conducted a Going concern Board and the Chief Executive, the formal review of the effectiveness of The directors have satisfied themselves, management team continue to the Groups internal control systems at the time of approving the financial implement their business development for 2006, considering reports from statements, that the Group has plans and monitor operational projects.
management and the work of the Risk adequate resources to continue in The executive directors monitor and Internal Audit functions.
The operational existence for the activities on a daily basis and ensure review covered all key controls, foreseeable future, and for this reason that appropriate controls are exercised including financial, operational and the financial statements are prepared over the Groups operations.
The Board compliance controls, as well as the on a going concern basis.
considers the monthly management Groups risk management systems.
The accounts, budgets and plans and findings of the review were reported Relations with shareholders discusses any issues arising therefrom.
to and considered by the Board.
The Board recognises the importance of communication with shareholders.
The Risk Committee is a management Compliance The Companys website, committee which is responsible for The Group has a compliance function www.
com, provides developing policies and monitoring which ensures that all the Groups information for shareholders on the mechanisms which ensure that the entities meet the rules of the regulators Groups activities, announcements, Group operates in accordance with in each of the jurisdictions in which the products and recent developments.
The compliance of Group Risk Control reports to the officers are in regular contact with the There is regular dialogue with Finance Director.
The members of the executive directors and report to the institutional investors, fund managers Risk Committee are the Chief Executive, Risk Committee, the Audit Committee and analysts, including presentations who acts as chairman, the Finance and the Board as appropriate.
around the time of the results Director and the Head of Group Risk announcements and also on request.
The minutes of the Risk The Group is regulated on a Following formal presentations to Committee are circulated to the Board.
consolidated basis by the Financial shareholders, the Companys brokers Services Authority.
During the year the additionally provide feedback to the The systems of internal control Company ensured that its controls were Board from shareholders.
The Chairman operated by the Group are designed to consistent with the Integrated maintains informal relations with manage rather than eliminate risk of Prudential Source Book.
The Financial shareholders when necessary and is failure to achieve business objectives, Services Authority has changed the available to those shareholders who and can only provide reasonable and methodology for the calculation of have a policy of regular contact or who not absolute assurance against regulatory capital with the introduction wish to discuss specific matters.
The material misstatement or loss.
of the Capital Requirements Directive in Senior Independent Non-executive 2007.
The Group continues to maintain Director and the other non-executive A Group Risk Control team, which excesses of regulatory capital in all its directors are available to meet with forms part of the embedded risk regulated entities and also at the Group shareholders, should such meetings management process, is responsible level and does not envisage any be requested.
for ensuring that the Risk Committee, difficulties arising from any changes executive directors and senior to be introduced to the regulation of The Operating and Financial Review on management receive appropriate its businesses.
pages 3 to 9 includes a detailed review information and exception reports of the business and future to comply with the Groups risk Internal audit developments.
management principles and policies The Group has an internal audit for maintaining the Groups risk function which undertakes reviews and The Board uses the Annual General assessment system.
The reports provides objective analysis, appraisals, Meeting to communicate with provided cover, inter alia, the current advice and recommendations investors and welcomes their status of existing controls, audits, loss concerning the activities reviewed.
Notice of the Annual events, and any required action plans Internal Audit uses a risk-based, General Meeting, and related papers, to remedy any identified shortcomings disciplined approach to both selection are sent to shareholders at least 20 in the control environment.
of areas for review and assessment working days before the meeting.
The proposed schedule of Chairman aims to ensure that all of the The Group has investments in a activities of the internal audit directors, including Chairmen of the number of joint ventures and associated department is approved by the Audit Committees of the Board, are available companies.
Where the Group is not Committee, and all internal audit at Annual General Meetings to answer directly involved in the management reports are copied to the members of questions and meet shareholders.
The of the investment, it can influence, the Audit Committee.
The Head of proxy votes cast on each resolution through Board representation, but not Internal Audit has a reporting line to proposed at general meetings are control, the internal control systems the Audit Committee and has access disclosed at those meetings.
To present in those entities.
The Boards at any time to the Chairman of the encourage shareholder participation, review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
those shareholders whose shares are system of internal controls in those held via the CREST system are offered entities is consequently less the facility to submit their proxy votes comprehensive than in its directly via CREST.
Tullett Prebon plc 17 Annual Report 2006
