qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 27 Corporate Governance Background of parameters for and the monitoring of investment strategy, the The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose review of investment performance and the extent to which how they have applied the principles and complied with the borrowings may be used.
The Chief Executive officer is provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance responsible to the Board for the overall management of the the Code.
His duties include leading on investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the investment managers and their terms of reference, on the use of Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the derivatives and for all other aspects of the Companys affairs, Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
In addition, the AITC including shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the Association of industry matters, administration and the unquoted investments.
Investment Companies in July 2003, applies to the Company The Chief Executive officer reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes conrmation from each of the investment managers that they have carried out their duties in accordance Application of the Principles of the Code with the terms of their investment mandates and conrmation The Company is committed to high standards of corporate that the Boards investment limits and restrictions have been governance and the Board attaches importance to the matters set adhered to, including those which govern the Companys tax out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an status as an investment trust.
The investment managers take investment trust company, many of the Companys day to day decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments responsibilities are delegated to third parties and all but one of and are responsible for effecting those decisions on the best the directors are non-executive.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided, in a timely manner, with management, The Board regulatory and financial information that is clear, accurate and The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
relevant, whether from the Chief Executive officer or otherwise.
Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
Representatives of the investment managers attend Board meetings on a regular basis, enabling the directors to monitor the The Board sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the management of the Companys assets, to seek clarification on Companys memorandum and articles of association, and to such specic issues or to probe further on any points of concern.
approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required Matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board have from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in been dened and there is an agreed procedure for directors, in place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The directors The Board currently consists of nine directors, all of whom are have access to the advice and services of the corporate company independent of the Companys various investment managers.
secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible With the sole exception of the Chief Executive officer, the to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Their biographical details, set out When a director is appointed he or she is offered a tailored on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, introductory programme.
Directors are also provided, on a commercial and professional experience with an international regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, perspective.
regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the most Board as they arise.
Directors are encouraged to attend suitable important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting training courses on an ongoing basis at the Companys expense.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 28 Corporate Governance continued Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election Board Committees and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
In accordance with The Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Companys articles of association, new directors stand for The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for the duties election at the first annual general meeting following their of the Boards former Nominations Committee.
The duties of the appointment.
The Board has agreed that every director will stand former Management Engagement Committee are now the for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The responsibility of the Chief Executive officer.
The membership of Boards report on the independence of the directors is set out on the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is set pages 20 and 21. out on pages 2 and 21.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Audit Committee Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the The Committee comprises three non-executive directors appointment of new directors with the skills and experience appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors The Committee held four meetings during the year, at two of retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their which representatives of the auditors were present.
Its commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The programme is to meet at least three times a year: in advance of Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience the publication of both the annual and the interim results and of various areas, the most important skill-sets being investment on at least one other occasion with an agenda that is focused on management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk its broader responsibilities.
management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors in The Boards procedure in 2006 for evaluating the performance of applying financial reporting and internal control principles and to the Board, its Committees and the individual directors was by maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
means of individual meetings of the Chairman with each of the directors.
A meeting of the directors was then held, without the The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
The evaluation Companys financial statements, including consideration of the process is designed to show whether individual directors Companys accounting policies and significant reporting continue to contribute effectively to the Board and to clarify the judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial controls strengths and weaknesses of the Boards composition and and risk management systems.
It reviews the scope and processes.
The Chairman has taken the lead in acting on the effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the auditors results of the evaluation process, mindful of the requirement to independence and objectivity.
It makes recommendations in refresh the composition of the Board from time to time without relation to the appointment of the external auditors, including reducing the stability, sense of purpose and effectiveness of the their remuneration and the provision by them of any non-audit Board that was highlighted by the evaluation process.
The Committee has established a procedure to ensure that the engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services The Chairman of the Company is an independent director.
A cannot exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit fees senior non-executive director has not been identied as the without due consideration being given by the Committee to the Board considers that, by design, the directors have different proposed appointment.
The Committee also reviews major qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead when contracts undertaken by the Company, the Boards investment issues arise.
In addition the Board has appointed separate restrictions and the values attributed to the unquoted investments.
chairmen to lead its two permanent committees.
Accordingly, It reviews the Companys policy on matters of corporate social any concerns can be conveyed to the director most qualied to responsibility and the exercise of voting rights.
It ensures that the address the subject.
Company maintains appropriate compliance with the 28 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 29 requirements of regulators: and it reviews the reporting of The Board considers that the annual general meeting should investment performance.
provide an effective forum for individual investors to communicate with the directors.
The annual general meeting is Remuneration Committee chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairmen of the Audit The Committee comprises three non-executive directors Committee and the Remuneration Committee also expect to be appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
present and able to answer questions from shareholders as The Committee held two meetings during the year.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each programme is to meet at least once a year, in advance of the year resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive end, and on other occasions as necessary.
officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The Company has adopted a nominee share code which is set out on page 56.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and review the Companys remuneration policy, to establish the Accountability and Audit incentive arrangements for and to evaluate the performance of The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the the Chief Executive officer, to assess the effectiveness of the accounts is set out on page 31.
Board and to consider the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing the composition of The report of the independent auditors is set out on page 32. the Board and for proposing nominations for appointment to it.
Each director is invited to submit nominations and external The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, advisers may be used to identify or assess potential candidates.
including the six investment managers, the management of the The nominations list is considered by the Board as a whole, investment portfolio, global custody which includes the although the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, selection of his successor.
management and financial accounting, company secretarial and certain other administrative requirements and the registration Two Board appointments were made early in 2007.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and reviewed the skills and experience required of potential new proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the directors.
The Remuneration Committee, assisted by a specialist services offered, including the control systems in operation in so rm of search consultants, Trust Associates Limited, prepared a far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board short list of candidates and made a recommendation to the receives and considers regular reports from the investment Board.
The Board accepted the recommendations and its two managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to invitations to join the Board were both accepted.
the Board from its other contractors as required.
Directors Remuneration Internal Control The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26. evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, is Relations with Shareholders subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully The Board seeks to develop an understanding of the views of the in place during the year under review and up to the date of this major shareholders by receiving reports from the Chief Executive annual report.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys officer and from the Witan Marketing Director on meetings that system of internal control and has conducted its annual review of they have with shareholders, investors and analysts and from the the effectiveness of the system, covering all the controls, Companys stockbrokers on contact it has with shareholders and including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk investors.
The Chairman, and other members of the Board if management systems.
This review took into account points raised requested, expect to be available to talk to major shareholders.
during the year in the regular appraisal of specic areas of risk.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 30 Corporate Governance continued However, such a system is designed to manage rather than accountants and administrators is responsible for investment eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business administration, for maintaining accounting records and for objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute preparing financial accounts, management accounts and other assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The investment performance of the investment managers, both individually and collectively, is During the year the Board undertook a full review of the measured for Witan by a company that is independent of all the Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded in a investment managers.
The corporate company secretary is a risk map.
The Company receives each quarter from its main company with long experience in servicing investment trusts.
The contractors formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor appointment of these and other professional contractors provides the areas of risk and which report the details of any known a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal controls internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from its UK that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to monitor based investment managers and its investment administrator its system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it reports on their internal controls, each of which includes a report operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually from the relevant companys auditors on the control policies and whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of internal control and risk management into the Going Concern operations and culture of the Company and of its key suppliers.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate During the year the Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment financial resources to continue in operational existence for the Services Limited, was authorised by the Financial Services foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is Authority to undertake the regulated activities necessary to appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in manage savings schemes for investors.
The compliance structures preparing the accounts.
required for these activities, including a compliance manual and a compliance monitoring programme, were duly put into place.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Board has approved a corporate governance voting policy with The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in confidence all of its investment managers which, in the view of the Board, any concerns about possible improprieties, whether in matters of balances current best practice with the underlying investment financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent management philosophies of the investment managers.
Its staff comprises only five people including the Chief Executive officer, who are well known to and have Statement of Compliance frequent and informal contact with the members of the Board.
The directors consider that the Company has complied during the year ended 31 December 2006 with all the relevant The Company does not have an internal audit function.
It provisions set out in the Code, with the exceptions that a the delegates to third parties the management of its investments and Board has not appointed a senior independent director Code most of its other operations and employs only a small staff.
3.3 and b one member of the Audit Committee, investment managers and certain other key contractors are subject Mr Clarke who retired on 24 April 2006, was not an independent to external regulation and most have compliance and internal director Code Provision C. 3.1 The directors consider that the audit functions of their own.
The Companys investments are held Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December on its behalf by a global custodian.
A specialist rm of investment 2006 with the AITC Code.
