Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Corporate Governance Report The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate Throughout the year, the Chairman and the other Non-Executive governance.
Throughout the year, the Company fully complied Directors were independent of management.
In December 2006, with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate as part of its annual review of corporate governance, the Board Governance the Code save for the early adoption of the 2006 considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors other revision to the Code as explained in the Remuneration Report on than the Chairman against the criteria in the Code and determined page 34.
The Company applied the principles of the Code as set that each remained independent.
Patricia Mann remained out in this report.
independent until her retirement from the Board.
Mary Francis succeeded Patricia Mann as the Senior The Board Independent Non-Executive Director on 19 May 2006.
An effective Board of Directors leads and controls the Group.
The Responsibilities of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Board, which met eight times during the year, has a schedule of include being available to shareholders if they have concerns that matters reserved for its approval.
This schedule and the terms of contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for reference for the Executive, Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, which such contact is inappropriate.
Corporate Responsibility and Disclosure Committees are available Throughout the year, the Non-Executive Directors, including on request and on our website www.
the Chairman, met independently of management on a regular basis.
Full details of Directors service contracts, emoluments and The Board is responsible for: share interests can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages X the development of strategy and major policies: 34 to 41.
X the review of management performance: Board appointments, evaluation and training X the approval of the annual operating plan, the financial There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the statements and major acquisitions and disposals: appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This is described in the X the system of internal control: and section on the Nominations Committee below.
All Directors joining X corporate governance.
the Board are required to submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, they are subject to One of its meetings each year is substantially devoted to the re-election every third year.
The Non-Executive Directors are initially development of strategy.
Comprehensive briefing papers, including appointed for a three-year term and, subject to rigorous review and financial information, are circulated to each Director a week prior re-election, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
A procedure is in place for Directors to obtain accordance with the Articles of Association, Roger Carr, Phil Bentley,  advice in respect of their duties.
The Sam Laidlaw and Nick Luff will retire from office at the 2007 AGM.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, Roger General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Carr and Phil Bentley will be proposed for re-election to serve further Overall attendance by Directors at meetings during 2006 was: three-year terms and, being their first AGM since their respective 96% for the Board: 82% for the Audit Committee: 80% for the appointments to the Board, Sam Laidlaw and Nick Luff will be Remuneration Committee: 92% for the Nominations Committee: proposed for election to serve initial three-year terms.
100% for the Corporate Responsibility Committee and 100% for the During the year, the Board conducted, with the assistance Disclosure Committee.
The following Directors gave their apologies of an independent external facilitator, JCA Group, a formal and for absence in respect of one or more meetings: Helen Alexander rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its one Board, one Audit : Mary Francis one Remuneration : Committees and individual Directors.
The Board evaluation built on Patricia Mann two Audit, one Remuneration : Sam Laidlaw one the positive results and output from the previous years evaluation Nominations : Andrew Mackenzie one Board, one Remuneration : and covered a number of topics including the effectiveness of the Paul Rayner two Remuneration : and Paul Walsh one Board, one Chairman and the Board as a whole, the individual contributions of Audit, one Nominations, three Remuneration.
the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, the mix of skills on the Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business or Board, the development of our strategy, risk management, Board personal commitments and illness.
Directors unable to attend processes and links between the Board and the businesses.
Board or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant papers and The process adopted involved the same facilitator interviewing provided comments to the Chairman or Committee Chairman, separately each of the Directors and the General Counsel & as appropriate.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has given Company Secretary.
In addition, the Senior Independent an assurance to the Chairman and the Board that they remain Non-Executive Director chaired a meeting of the independent committed to their role as a Non-Executive Director of the Company Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to appraise and will ensure that they devote sufficient time to it, including the Chairmans performance.
The output from those interviews attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
was compiled into a report prepared by the facilitator and this was presented to the Board at its meeting in November 2006, along Board membership with a number of recommendations to address the issues raised.
The names of the Directors and their biographical details, including The evaluation report concluded that during the year, the the Board Committee membership, appears on page 29.
Board had made significant progress in terms of addressing the Patricia Mann retired from the Board on 19 May 2006.
On key strategic challenges facing the Group, as well as the operational 1 July 2006, Sam Laidlaw was appointed to the Board, succeeding issues.
The report also concluded that the appointment of a Chief Sir Roy Gardner, who retired on 30 June, as Chief Executive.
Mark Executive with extensive upstream experience would strengthen the Clare resigned from the Board on 30 September 2006.
1 March 2007, Phil Bentley will be appointed as Managing Director, The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness British Gas and Nick Luff will be appointed to the Board to replace and development in the year ahead.
him as Group Finance Director.
As part of the performance management system that applies There is a clear division of responsibilities between the to management at all levels across the Group, the Chief Executives Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been formalised performance is reviewed regularly by the Chairman and that of the in writing and agreed by the Board: and there is a balance of other Executive Directors by the Chief Executive.
The Remuneration Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
Committee assesses the performance of the Executive Directors in 30 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 connection with its determination of remuneration levels as In 2006, the Audit Committee met four times and discharged explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 34-41. its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
It received The Directors receive ongoing training including an induction comprehensive reports from the Director of Business Assurance, programme tailored to meet the needs of the individual.
At Board senior management and the external auditors.
The Committee meetings, the Directors also receive regular updates on changes commissioned further reports in response to developing issues, as and developments to the business, and to the legislative and appropriate, and, in respect of all ongoing issues, requested clear regulatory environments.
During the year, the Board was briefed on: objectives, timetables and achievement milestones against which commodity risk and hedging strategy: the risks and opportunities performance could be monitored.
of upstream exploration activities: directors liabilities, including the Significant areas of review during the year included the new requirements relating to disclosure of information to the implementation of the new British Gas billing system, the risk auditors: and the new narrative reporting requirements for the control framework and risk mitigation, the risk profile of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
business model, information security, gas imbalance and debt management, and compliance with the undertakings in respect of Board committees Centrica Storage Ltd. At each of its meetings, the Committee met The Board has delegated authority to a number of committees to deal with the external auditors, and separately with the Director of with specific aspects of the management and control of the Group.
Business Assurance, in the absence of management.
The issues The minutes of the meetings of these committees are made discussed by the Committee and the conclusions reached were available to all the Directors on a timely basis.
reported by the Committee Chairman to the next Board meeting.
Board Committee membership was strengthened during the Note 5 to the Financial Statements on page 59 sets out the year, with all of the independent Non-Executive Directors now being Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancies members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board has approved policies that restrict This membership structure gives the independent Non-Executive the types of non-audit work that can be undertaken by the external Directors detailed insight into the nature of the matters being auditors and restrict the employment by the Group of former discussed, brings continuity to membership and avoids undue employees of the external audit firms.
The award of non-audit work reliance on particular individuals.
within categories that the external auditors are permitted to carry out The Corporate Responsibility Committee, formerly a subunder the Board-approved policies is subject to pre-clearance by the committee of the Executive Committee, became a formal committee Audit Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
All nonof the Board on 1 March 2006. audit assignments awarded to the external auditors are reported to Executive Committee the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis, along with a full During 2006, the Executive Committee comprised: the Executive breakdown of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
Directors: the General Counsel & Company Secretary: the As a matter of best practice and in accordance with Managing Director, Centrica North America: the Group Human International Standard on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Resources Director: and the Managing Director, British Gas Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, the external auditors have held discussions with the Audit Committee on the Services.
Sam Laidlaw succeeded Sir Roy Gardner as Chairman of the Committee on 1 July.
Mark Clare resigned from the Committee subject of auditor independence and have confirmed their independence in writing.
The Committee meets weekly to oversee the management of the Group and is the decision-making body for Remuneration Committee those matters not reserved to the Board and within the limits set out The composition and responsibilities of the Remuneration in the Groups delegated authority and expenditure control policy.
Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the The following, with membership drawn from among Executive principles of the Code in setting Executive Directors remuneration Directors and senior management, are sub-committees of the are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 41.
Executive Committee: the Group Risk Management Committee, the Group Financial Risk Management Committee and the Health, Nominations Committee Safety and Environment Committee.
During 2006, the Nominations Committee comprised Roger Carr Chairman, Helen Alexander, Paul Walsh, from 1 July, Sam Laidlaw Audit Committee and, from 19 May, Mary Francis, Andrew Mackenzie and Paul During 2006, the Audit Committee comprised Paul Rayner Rayner.
Patricia Mann and Sir Roy Gardner were members of the Chairman, Helen Alexander, Mary Francis, Andrew Mackenzie, Committee until 19 May and 30 June, respectively.
Throughout the Paul Walsh and Patricia Mann until 19 May.
Paul Rayner, the year, a majority of the Committees members were independent finance director of a FTSE 100 company, is identified as having Non-Executive Directors.
recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board for The Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, the appointment of replacement or additional Directors.
It is also is authorised to: responsible for succession planning and Board evaluation.
The X monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements, Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements on the Board against current and future requirements of the contained in them: Company and, as appropriate, draws up a list of required attributes.
X review the Companys internal financial controls, internal control During the year, the Committee met four times and considered and risk management systems: the succession to Sir Roy Gardner as Chief Executive and Phil Bentley as Group Finance Director, for which external consultants X monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal were engaged.
The Committee also considered the interim audit function: executive responsibilities prior to the commencement of a new X establish and oversee the Companys relationship with Group Finance Director, the reappointment of Directors retiring the external auditors, including the monitoring of their by rotation at the AGM, the Board evaluation process described independence: and above and succession planning.
X monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Corporate Governance Report continued Corporate Responsibility Committee which allowed it to track a number of issues, monitor performance Since the Corporate Responsibility Committee became a committee against objectives and ensure that necessary actions were taken to of the Board on 1 March 2006, it has comprised Mary Francis remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from those Chairman and senior management drawn from across the Group.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported the issues Phil Bentley has been appointed to the Committee, with discussed and conclusions reached at the following Board meeting.
effect from 1 March 2007 and Mark Clare was a member until Across the Group, each business has a Risk Management 30 September 2006.
The role of the Committee and details of the Committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the work it undertook during the year can be found on pages 24 to 26. management of operational risks.
In addition, the Group Risk Management Committee considers the risks that might affect Disclosure Committee the Company at Group level.
The processes of newly-acquired The Disclosure Committee, which met regularly during the year, companies are integrated with those of the Group.
Centrica Storage comprised the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and Ltd, which is subject to undertakings given to the Secretary of State the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Committee has for Trade and Industry, operates separately but to the same standards responsibility for implementing and monitoring systems and controls of internal control and risk management as the rest of the Group.
in respect of the management and disclosure of inside information.
Assurance Relations with shareholders The business assurance function undertakes internal audit reviews The Company has a programme of communication with its according to a plan approved by the Audit Committee.
As well as share price information, news releases and of its work are reported to Audit Committee meetings.
annual reports, the Centrica website includes speeches from the AGM, presentations to the investment community and a section The Boards review of the system of internal control on shareholder services.
The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed As the website contains a wealth of up-to-date information, the the effectiveness of the system of internal control operated, as Company wishes to use this as a primary means of communication described above, throughout the period from 1 January 2006 to with shareholders and a resolution to that effect will be proposed the date of this report and is satisfied that the Group complies at the 2007 AGM.
Shareholders can register to receive all their with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
communications online, benefiting both themselves and the Company.
Going concern The Board also believes that the AGM presents an important After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that opportunity for dialogue with private shareholders, many of whom the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational are also our customers.
At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, we continue to Executive present a review of the businesses of the Group.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, Representatives from across the Group are available to answer which are shown on pages 43 to 110. questions both before and after the meeting.
All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes in Directors Responsibility Statement respect of proposed AGM resolutions by proxy, either electronically The Directors are responsible for preparing, in respect of each or by post.
Shareholders can cast their votes online by logging onto financial year, a Directors Report, a Remuneration Report and www.
co. uk, further details of which are provided in the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law, regulations Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders who hold their shares within CREST and accounting standards.
In preparing the Financial Statements, can cast their votes by proxy using the CREST electronic proxy the Directors are responsible for ensuring that they give a true appointment service.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group The Company also holds regular meetings with its major at the end of the financial year and the profit or loss of the Group shareholders.
The Chairman attends the meetings at which the for that period.
annual and interim results are presented to major investors and The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in analysts.
During the year, the Chairman met with a number of major accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and International institutional shareholders to gain a first-hand understanding of any Financial Reporting Standards IFRS pursuant to Article 4 of the issues or concerns they may have had.
He reported his findings to IAS Regulations.
The Parent Company Financial Statements have the Board.
This was in addition to the formal independent reports of been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and investor feedback that are included with the papers for each Board United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
An independent survey of shareholder opinion was also Directors Report and the Remuneration Report have been conducted during the year and the results of this survey were prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and presented to the Board.
the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
Internal control In preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of required to: internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate X select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide consistently: only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable misstatement or loss.
and prudent: Identification, assessment and management of risks X state whether applicable accounting standards have been The Company places great importance on internal control and risk followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and management.
A risk-aware and control-conscious environment is explained in the Financial Statements: and promoted and encouraged throughout the Group.
The Board, either X prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, directly or through its committees, sets objectives, performance unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue targets and policies for management of key risks facing the Group.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 21 to 23 of this report.
At each of its four meetings in 2006, the The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above Audit Committee received a comprehensive internal control report, requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
32 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
