ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Companys shareholders and others are recently, the Audit Committee and the understood and met.
This includes regular Science Committee.
Details of members of the Board at reviews of the Companys financial 31 December 2006 are set out on pages 32 performance and critical business issues.
Professor Dame Nancy Rothwell and John and 33.
Varley were appointed as Non-Executive At the December 2006 Board meeting, Directors with effect from 27 April 2006 and the Chairman reported to the Board on his 26 July 2006, respectively.
BOARD COMPOSITION, conversations with each Non-Executive PROCESSES AND Director about his or her individual RESPONSIBILITIES performance and that of the Board as a ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION whole, which took place during the fourth OF DIRECTORS The Board comprises Executive and quarter of 2006.
The Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors.
In the view of the reviewed the performance of the Chief All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 Board, the majority of Board members are, Executive Of cer CEO and other Executive of the Companys Articles of Association at for the purposes of the UK Combined Code Directors in their absence.
In addition, the the AGM in April 2007.
The Notice of AGM on Corporate Governance and the corporate Board, under the chairmanship of the Senior will give details of those Directors presenting governance standards of the New York Independent Director, reviewed the themselves for election or re-election at Stock Exchange, independent Non-Executive performance of the Chairman in his absence, the AGM.
Sir Peter Bon eld and Erna Mller Directors.
during that same December Board meeting.
intend to step down as Directors of the Company at the 2007 AGM.
All Directors are collectively responsible for The Company maintained directors and the success of the Company.
However, of cers liability insurance cover throughout Executive Directors have direct responsibility 2006.
In early 2006, the Company entered BOARD COMMITTEES for business operations, whereas the into a deed of indemnity in favour of each Non-Executive Directors have a responsibility Board member.
Under Article 134 of the The current members of the Audit Committee to bring independent, objective judgement Companys Articles of Association, the current are John Buchanan Chairman of the to bear on Board decisions.
This includes Directors and of cers were already Committee, Jane Henney and Michele constructively challenging management indemni ed in accordance with the Companies Hooper.
Dame Bridget Ogilvie was also a and helping to develop the Companys Act 1985.
However, consistent with recent valued member of the Committee until she strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors changes to the Companies Act 1985, and in stepped down as a Director with effect from scrutinise the performance of management the interests of retaining high quality, skilled 27 April 2006. and have various responsibilities concerning individuals, current market practice is the integrity of financial information, internal for companies to enter into a separate deed The current members of the Remuneration controls and risk management.
To help of indemnity in favour of each director.
As at Committee are Sir Peter Bon eld Chairman of maintain a strong executive presence on the the date of this report, these deeds of the Committee, John Buchanan, Joe Jiminez, Board, in addition to the Executive Directors indemnity are still in force and provide that the Erna Mller and since 26 July 2006 John attending, members of the Senior Executive Company shall indemnify the Directors, to the Varley.
Sir Peter Bon eld and Erna Mller will Team SET routinely attend Board meetings extent permitted by law and the Companys step down at the AGM in 2007, and Sir Peters on a rotational basis.
At the end of every Articles of Association, in respect of all losses role as Chairman of the Committee will be Board meeting, the Companys Nonarising out of, or in connection with, the assumed by John Varley.
Executive Directors meet without the execution of their powers, duties and Executive Directors present.
responsibilities, as directors of the Company The current members of the Nomination or any of its subsidiaries.
Committee are Louis Schweitzer Chairman There is an established procedure operated of the Committee, Hkan Mogren, Sir Peter by the Nomination Committee for the The Board held six scheduled meetings and Bon eld, Jane Henney and Joe Jiminez.
appointment of new directors to the Board.
Five of the Board Appointments are based on the merits of meetings were held in London, one in The current members of the Science the candidates, who are measured against Sdertlje and one by teleconference.
Committtee are Jane Henney, Erna Mller, objective criteria.
All of the Directors retire Dame Nancy Rothwell who succeeded Dame at each Annual General Meeting AGM and Bridget Ogilvie as Chairman of the Committee may offer themselves for re-election by BOARD CHANGES after Dame Bridget stepped down during shareholders.
The Board reviews annually the 2006 all Non-Executive Directors, Jan status of succession to senior positions, As reported last year, David Brennan Lundberg, John Patterson and Christopher including those at Board level, and ensures it became CEO with effect from 1 January Reilly.
has regular contact with, and access to, 2006. succession candidates.
At the AGM on 27 April 2006, Dame Bridget The Board sets the Companys strategy and Ogilvie, a Non-Executive Director, stepped policies and monitors progress towards down from the Board.
Dame Bridget served meeting its objectives.
To this end, it conducts the Company as a Non-Executive Director for a formal strategy review annually.
The Board nine years and worked as a member of also assesses whether its obligations to the various Board committees including, most 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE any control weaknesses through the already had a sound corporate governance Companys continuous assurance process.
framework, good processes for the accurate UK COMBINED CODE ON CORPORATE and timely reporting of its financial position GOVERNANCE The Directors believe that the Company and results of operations, and an effective The Board has prepared this report with maintains an effective, embedded system and robust system of internal controls.
reference to the UK Combined Code on of internal controls and complies with the Consequently, the Companys approach Corporate Governance published in July 2003 Turnbull Report guidance.
to compliance with the Act has principally by the Financial Reporting Council, as involved the development and adjustment amended in June 2006, and related guidance.
GROUP RISK AND CONTROL POLICY of its existing corporate governance RISK ADVISORY GROUP framework and associated processes The Company is applying all the main and Through the adoption by the Board of a concerning reporting, internal controls supporting principles of good governance Group Risk & Control Policy and supporting and other relevant matters.
The Company is standards, the Company has sought to complying with all of the provisions of the con rm and formalise the drive to manage The Directors assessment of the Combined Code.
business risks as a key element of all activities.
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting is set out on page 31 INTERNAL CONTROLS AND MANAGEMENT OF Supporting line management activities is Summary Financial Review.
RISK a dedicated risk management team who The Board has overall responsibility for the help to ensure key risks are identi ed and THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE Companys system of internal controls, which communicated appropriately.
The outputs of The Company, as a foreign issuer with ADSs aims to safeguard shareholders investments this team are reviewed by the Risk Advisory listed on the NYSE, has reviewed the and the Companys assets, and to ensure that Group RAG, which comprises senior corporate governance practices required to proper accounting records are maintained representatives from each business function.
be followed by US companies under the and that the financial information used within The RAG considers new and emerging risks NYSEs listing standards and its practices are the business and for publication is accurate, as well as risks across different parts of the generally consistent with those standards.
reliable and fairly presents the financial organisation.
It also plays an important role position of the Company and the results of in promoting continuous improvement in the its business operations.
The Board is also management of risk by sharing best practice CODE OF CONDUCT responsible for reviewing the effectiveness throughout the organisation.
It is chaired by of the system of internal controls.
The system the Chief Financial Of cer and reports twice The policy of the Company is to require all is designed to provide reasonable not a year to the SET.
The RAGs reports on the of its subsidiaries, and all employees, to necessarily absolute assurance of effective Companys risk pro le are reviewed by both observe high ethical standards of integrity operations and compliance with laws and the Audit Committee and the Board.
and honesty and to act with due skill, care, regulations.
For more information, refer to the diligence and fairness in the conduct of paragraphs relating to the US Sarbanes-Oxley THE US SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 business.
The Companys management Act of 2002 below.
AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary seeks to reinforce the standards outlined in Shares ADSs are traded on the New York the Code of Conduct throughout the TURNBULL REPORT GUIDANCE Stock Exchange NYSE and, accordingly, the business.
In particular, all employees are Since the publication in September 1999 Company is subject to the reporting and other required to comply with the letter and spirit by the Institute of Chartered Accountants requirements of the US Securities and of the Code of Conduct and with the in England and Wales of the Turnbull Report, Exchange Commission SEC applicable to standards detailed by the Company in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors foreign issuers.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act support of it.
The Code of Conduct is available on the Combined Code, the Directors have the Act came into force at the end of July on the Companys website: astrazeneca.
continued to review the effectiveness of the 2002.
As a result of its NYSE listing, the Groups system of controls, risk management Company is subject to those provisions of the and the Companys high level internal control Act applicable to foreign issuers.
Section 404 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, arrangements.
These reviews have included of this legislation requires companies to SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM AND an assessment of internal controls, and in include in their annual report led with the DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY particular internal financial controls, supported SEC a report by management stating its by management assurance of the responsibility for establishing internal control The CEO has been delegated authority from, maintenance of control, and reports from the over financial reporting and to assess annually and is responsible to, the Board for directing Group Internal Audit function, as well as the the effectiveness of such internal control.
and promoting the pro table operation and external auditor on matters identi ed in the In addition, the external auditor is required development of the Company, consistent with course of its statutory audit work.
to attest to, and report on managements the primary aim of enhancing long-term assessment.
As a foreign issuer that quali es shareholder value in relation to all matters Underpinning these reviews is an annual letter as a large accelerated ler, AstraZeneca is first save those which have been speci cally of assurance process by which responsible required to comply with section 404 in respect reserved for the Board.
managers con rm the adequacy of their of its financial year ended 31 December 2006. systems of internal financial and nonfinancial The CEO is responsible to the Board for the controls, their compliance with Company The Company has complied with those management and performance of the policies and relevant laws and regulations provisions of the Act applicable to foreign Companys businesses within the framework including the industrys regulatory issuers.
The Board believes that, prior to of Company policies, reserved powers and requirements, and con rm they have reported the Act coming into force, the Company routine reporting requirements.
He is obliged 35 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE CONTINUED to refer certain major matters back to the No.
The roles of the Board, the At 1 January 2006 1,581 395 Boards committees, the Chairman, the CEO and the SET are documented, as are the Issues of shares 23 6 Companys delegated authorities and Re-purchase of shares 72 18 reserved powers, the means of operation of At 31 December 2006 1,532 383 the business and the roles of corporate functions.
The CEO has established and chairs the SET.
RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS issued share capital at the time the reWhile the CEO retains full responsibility for the purchase programme commenced in 1999 authority delegated to him by the Board, the The Companys stated distribution policy See table on page 30.
SET is the vehicle through which he exercises comprises both a regular cash dividend and that authority in respect of the Companys a share re-purchase component, which The Company continues to maintain business including Aptium Oncology and provides a exible means of returning value robust controls in respect of all aspects of Astra Tech.
The members of the SET are to shareholders, while allowing the Company the share re-purchase programme to ensure shown on pages 4 and 5.
The SET normally to manage its capital structure more ef ciently compliance with English law and the FSAs meets once a month to consider and decide over time.
Listing Rules, Disclosure Rules and major business issues.
It also usually reviews Prospectus Rules.
In particular, the those matters that are of a size or importance Shareholders have different preferences, Companys Disclosure Committee meets to to require the attention of, or that are reserved and the Board believes the combination of ensure that the Company does not purchase to, the Board before such matters are submitted regular cash dividends and share buyback its own shares during prohibited periods.
At to the Board for review and decision.
programmes enables it to balance the the 2007 AGM, the Company will seek a interests of all shareholder groups.
renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase its own shares.
DISCLOSURE POLICY AND The Board continually reviews its shareholders DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE return strategy, and in 2006 re-stated its intention to grow dividends in line with earnings CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY The Companys Disclosure Policy provides growth, while ensuring the dividend remains a framework for the handling and disclosure covered by at least two times earnings.
It is not Company policy formally to comply of inside information and other information of with the Confederation of British Industrys interest to shareholders and the investment The Board also rmly believes the first call on code of practice on the prompt payment of community.
It also fide fines the role of the free cash ow is investment in the business, suppliers.
It is, however, Company policy to Disclosure Committee.
Led by the Chief after which surplus cash should be returned agree to appropriate payment terms with all Financial Of cer, the Disclosure Committee to the shareholders.
Accordingly, in 2007 suppliers when agreeing to the terms of each meets regularly to assist and inform the the Board intends to return $4 billion of funds transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are decisions of the CEO concerning inside to shareholders via a share re-purchase made aware of the terms of payment and, information and its disclosure.
Should there be additional cash subject to their compliance, abide by the in ow during 2007 from the issue of shares terms of payment.
The total amount of money in respect of employees exercising share owed by AstraZeneca PLCs subsidiaries to DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION options, the Board will consider extending trade creditors at the balance sheet date was TO AUDITORS the re-purchase programme to include this equivalent to 74 days average purchases.
The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of the 2006 Directors Report During 2006, the Company purchased ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING con rm that, so far as they are each aware, 72.2 million of its own Ordinary Shares with there is no relevant audit information of which a nominal value of $0.25 each for cancellation, The Companys 2007 AGM will be held on the Companys auditors are unaware: and at an aggregate cost of $4.1 billion.
The principal meeting each Director has taken all the steps that he during 2006, 23.5 million shares were issued place will be in London.
There will be a ought to have taken as a Director to make in respect of employee share plans for a simultaneous satellite meeting in Stockholm.
himself aware of any relevant audit information total consideration of $1.0 billion.
The net and to establish that the Companys auditors number of shares repurchased in 2006 was are aware of that information.
therefore 48.7 million, which represents EXTERNAL AUDITOR 3.1% of the Companys issued share capital at 1 January 2006.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2007 CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL AGM for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Since the Company began its share Plc, London as auditor of the Company.
Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share re-purchase programmes in 1999, a total capital during 2006 are shown in the table of 282.8 million Ordinary Shares have been On behalf of the Board below: purchased for cancellation at an aggregate G H R MUSKER cost of $13.3 billion.
This represents GROUP SECRETARY AND SOLICITOR approximately 15.9% of the Companys total 1 February 2007 36
