DIRECTORS REPORT 71 Governance GOVERNANCE TABLE OF CONTENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board sets the Companys strategy and Board of Directors Details of members of the Board at policies and monitors progress towards 31 December 2006 are set out on pages 80 meeting its objectives.
To this end, it conducts Board composition, processes, and 81. a formal strategy review annually.
The Board responsibilities and appointments also assesses whether its obligations to the Board meetings Board composition, processes, Companys shareholders and others are Board changes responsibilities and appointments understood and met.
This includes regular Election and re-election of Directors The Board comprises Executive and Nonreviews of the Companys financial Executive Directors.
In the view of the Board, performance and critical business issues.
Board committees the majority of Board members are for the Audit Committee purposes of the UK Combined Code on At its meeting in December 2006, the Board Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance and the corporate conducted its annual review and assessment Nomination Committee governance standards of the New York of how it operates.
This was done without Stock Exchange, independent Non-Executive external facilitation and included consideration Science Committee Directors.
The roles of Executive Directors and discussion of the nature and level of its Corporate Governance are clearly delineated in their service interaction with the Companys management: UK Combined Code on contracts.
All Directors are collectively the quality, quantity and scope of information Corporate Governance responsible for the success of the Company.
which flows to the Board from management, Internal controls and management However, Executive Directors have direct and the way in which it flows: the content of of risk responsibility for business operations, Board meetings and presentations to Board whereas the Non-Executive Directors have a meetings: the composition of the Board: Turnbull Report guidance responsibility to bring independent, objective the practical arrangements for the work of Group Risk & Control Policy judgement to bear on Board decisions.
This the Board: and the work and operation of Risk Advisory Group includes constructively challenging the Boards committees.
Overall, Board The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 management and helping to develop the members concluded that the Board and its The New York Stock Exchange Companys strategy.
The Non-Executive committees were operating in an effective Directors scrutinise the performance of and constructive manner.
Independence of Directors under the management and have various responsibilities UK Combined Code concerning the integrity of financial At the same meeting, the Chairman also Code of Conduct information, internal controls and risk reported to the Board on his conversations Group Internal Audit management.
To help maintain a strong with each Non-Executive Director about his Chief Executive Officer, the Senior executive presence on the Board, in addition or her individual performance and that of the Executive Team and delegation of authority to the Executive Directors attending, members Board as a whole, which took place during of the Senior Executive Team SET routinely the fourth quarter of 2006.
The Non-Executive Business objectives and performance attend Board meetings on a rotational basis.
Directors reviewed the performance of the Policy and Disclosure Committee At the end of every Board meeting the Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Disclosure of information to auditors Companys Non-Executive Directors meet Directors in their absence.
In addition, Other matters without the Executive Directors present.
the Board under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director reviewed the Subsidiaries and principal activities There is an established procedure operated performance of the Chairman in his absence, Branches by the Nomination Committee for the during that same December Board meeting.
Dividend appointment of new directors to the Board.
Going concern accounting basis Appointments are based on the merits of The Company maintained directors the candidates, who are measured against and officers liability insurance cover Changes in share capital objective criteria.
All of the Directors retire at throughout 2006.
Mandatory shareholding for Directors each Annual General Meeting AGM and Shareholder communications may offer themselves for re-election by In early 2006 the Company entered into Returns to shareholders shareholders.
The Board reviews annually the a deed of indemnity in favour of each Board status of succession to senior positions, member.
Under Article 134 of the Companys Political donations including those at Board level, and ensures it Articles of Association the current Directors Use of financial instruments has regular contact with, and access to, and officers were already indemnified in Creditor payment policy succession candidates.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Annual General Meeting External auditor 72 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED However, consistent with recent changes to The Board is currently scheduled to meet six The core remit of the Audit Committee includes the Companies Act 1985, and in the interests times in 2007. reviewing and reporting to the Board on: of retaining high-quality, skilled individuals, current market practice is for companies Board changes Matters relating to the audit plans of to enter into a separate deed of indemnity in David Brennan became Chief Executive the external auditor and the internal favour of each director.
As at the date of this Officer with effect from 1 January 2006. audit function.
report, these deeds of indemnity are still in force and provide that the Company shall indemnify At the AGM on 27 April 2006, Dame Bridget The Companys overall framework for the Directors, to the extent permitted by law Ogilvie, a Non-Executive Director, stepped internal control over financial reporting and and the Companys Articles of Association, down from the Board.
Dame Bridget served for other internal controls and processes.
in respect of all losses arising out of, or in the Company as a Non-Executive Director for connection with, the execution of their powers, nine years and worked as a member of The Companys overall framework for risk duties and responsibilities, as directors of the various Board committees including, most management with particular emphasis on Company or any of its subsidiaries.
recently, the Audit Committee and the financial risks.
Board meetings The accounting policies and practices of The Board held six scheduled meetings and Professor Dame Nancy Rothwell was the Company.
Five of the appointed as Non-Executive Director Board meetings were held in London, one with effect from 27 April 2006.
The annual and quarterly financial reporting in Sdertlje and one by teleconference.
carried out by the Company.
All Directors participated in all meetings, save John Varley was appointed as Non-Executive as set out in the following table: Director with effect from 26 July 2006.
The Audit Committee is charged with promptly bringing to the attention of the Board any Name Number of meetings attended Election and re-election of Directors significant concerns of the external auditor or 4 All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 the Chief Internal Auditor about the conduct, Sir Peter Bonfield 5 of the Companys Articles of Association at results or overall outcome of their audit work, David Brennan 7 the AGM in April 2007.
The Notice of AGM any matters which may significantly affect or 5 John Buchanan 5 will give details of those Directors presenting impair the independence of the external 6 Jane Henney 5 themselves for election or re-election at the auditor, any significant deficiencies or material 8 AGM.
Sir Peter Bonfield and Erna Mller intend weaknesses in the design or operation of the Michele Hooper 6 to step down as Directors of the Company at Companys internal control over financial Joe Jimenez 7 the 2007 AGM.
reporting or other internal controls and any Hkan Mogren 7 serious issues of non-compliance.
Erna Mller 7 Board committees 1 Audit Committee The Audit Committee oversees the Dame Bridget Ogilvie 2 The current members of the Audit establishment, implementation and John Patterson 7 Committee are John Buchanan Chairman of maintenance of the Companys Code of Louis Schweitzer 7 the Committee, Jane Henney and Michele Conduct.
It establishes procedures for the Jonathan Symonds 7 Hooper.
They are all Non-Executive Directors.
receipt and handling of complaints concerning The Board considers each member to be accounting or audit matters.
It recommends Marcus Wallenberg 7 independent under the UK Combined Code to the Board the appointment of the external 2 7 John Varley 2 and under the general guidance and specific auditor, subject to the approval of the 3 Dame Nancy Rothwell 4 criteria of the New York Stock Exchanges Companys shareholders at a general 1 corporate governance listing standards meeting.
Shareholders in a general meeting Resigned 27 April 2006.
2 concerning the composition of audit authorise the Directors to fix the Appointed 26 July 2006.
3 committees applicable to non-US companies.
remuneration of the external auditors.
4 In August 2006, the Company submitted Audit Committee reviews and approves the Unable to attend the meetings on 30 March due to a commitment abroad and on 25 July due to illness.
the required annual written affirmation to the appointment and any dismissal of the Chief 5 Unable to attend the meeting on 1 February because NYSE confirming its full compliance with Internal Auditor.
He was also unable to attend the those standards.
Dame Bridget Ogilvie was meeting on 26 April because of a conflicting meeting.
a valued member of the Audit Committee for The Audit Committee maintains policies and 6 Unable to attend the meeting on 30 March because of part of 2006, stepping down with effect from procedures for the pre-approval of all audit a conflict with another meeting.
She was also unable to 27 April 2006 at the same time she resigned services and permitted non-audit services attend the meeting on 25 October because of a commitment in the US.
The Board remains satisfied undertaken by the external auditor.
The principal 7 Unable to attend the meeting on 13 September due that at least one member of the Audit purpose of these policies and procedures to other commitments already scheduled prior to Committee has recent and relevant financial is to ensure that the independence of the his appointment.
At its meeting in December external auditor is not impaired.
The policies 8 Unable to attend the meeting on 30 March because of a 2006, the Board determined that Dr and procedures cover three categories of conflict with another meeting.
Buchanan and Ms Hooper are Audit work audit services, audit-related services Committee financial experts for the purposes and tax services.
The policies define the type of of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. work that falls within each of these categories, as well as those non-audit services that the external auditor is prohibited from performing under the rules of the US Securities and DIRECTORS REPORT 73 Governance Exchange Commission and other relevant Committee members and those individuals, of audit and non-audit fees of the external UK professional and regulatory requirements.
separately from the main sessions of the auditor throughout 2006.
The Audit The pre-approval procedures permit certain Audit Committee, which were attended by Committee was satisfied throughout the audit, audit-related and tax services to be the Chief Financial Officer and the Group year that the objectivity and independence performed by the external auditor during the Financial Controller.
of the external auditor were not in any way year, subject to fee limits agreed with the Audit impaired by either the nature of the nonCommittee in advance.
The Group Financial During 2006 and January 2007, the business audit work undertaken by the external Controller and the Director of Group Tax monitor considered and discussed by the Audit auditor during the year, the level of nonthe status of all services being provided by the Committee included the matters referred audit fees charged for such work or any external auditor.
The procedures also deal with to below: other facts or circumstances.
Further the placing of non-audit work out for tender, details of the audit and non-audit fees for where appropriate.
Authority to approve work The Companys financial disclosures the year are disclosed in Note 28 to the in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is were reviewed and various accounting Financial Statements on page 146. delegated to the Chairman of the Audit matters considered.
Committee in the first instance.
Regular The Audit Committee reviewed the reports to the full Audit Committee are also Reports were received from the external Companys continuing work to comply provided for and, in practice, a standing agenda auditor concerning its audit of the financial with the applicable provisions of the US item at Audit Committee meetings covers the statements of the Company and from Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act.
operation of the pre-approval procedures.
management, the internal audit function and In particular, it regularly reviewed progress the external auditor on the effectiveness of against the implementation in 2006 of The full remit of the Audit Committee is the Companys system of internal controls section 404 of the Act concerning internal 1 available on the Companys website.
and, in particular, its internal control over control over financial reporting.
This included review and Committee also periodically reviewed the The Audit Committee held six scheduled discussion of the results of the Companys role of the external auditor in the section 404 meetings during 2006.
All of these meetings continuous assurance and annual letter related work to ensure its independence were held in London, UK including one by of assurance processes.
These processes was not impaired and would not be telephone.
All Audit Committee members are described on page 75.
The Audit impaired at such time as they were participated in all meetings, save as set out Committee also reviewed quarterly activity required to make an attestation opinion.
in the following table: reports of audit work carried out by the More details about the implementation of internal audit function and the status of section 404 of the Act are set out in the Name Number of meetings attended follow-up actions with management.
John Buchanan 6 The Audit Committee reviewed data about A review and assessment of the Audit Jane Henney 4 calls made by employees to the Companys Committees performance was carried out.
Michele Hooper 6 Code of Conduct helpline either seeking Dame Bridget Ogilvie 3 guidance on issues, or raising concerns, The Audit Committee reviewed aspects together with the results of enquiries into of the Companys Risk Management Resigned as a director and stepped down from the these matters.
No material issues were processes as well as the Group Risk Audit Committee with effect from 27 April 2006. reported through this route during the year.
profile and risk management plans ahead Following each Audit Committee meeting, of scrutiny by the Board.
the Chairman of the Committee reported to The Audit Committee reviewed accounting the Board on the principal matters covered matters relating to the Companys Following discussions at a meeting in at the meeting.
The minutes of Audit arrangements with Merck & Co. Inc. January 2007, the Audit Committee Committee meetings were also circulated resulting from the restructuring in 1998 unanimously recommended to the Board to all Board members.
of the joint venture between Astra AB that a resolution for the re-appointment of and Merck & Co. Inc. KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys external In addition to attendance at Audit Committee auditor be proposed to shareholders at the meetings, members of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviewed reports AGM in April 2007. met individual managers or groups of managers relating to certain taxation matters.
from the Company on a number of occasions At the same meeting, the Chief Executive during 2006.
This direct contact with other The Audit Committee continued to review Officer and the Chief Financial Officer presented managers helped the Directors gain a deeper the Companys US sales and marketing to the Audit Committee their conclusions insight into areas relevant to the Audit compliance programme as well as initiatives following the evaluation of the effectiveness Committees work and provided an opportunity being taken in the International Sales of the Companys disclosure controls and to discuss specific areas of interest.
and Marketing Organisation in respect procedures required by Item 15 a of Form 20-F of internal control, governance and as at 31 December 2006.
Based on their During the year, in line with its normal practice, compliance matters.
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the the Audit Committee also held a number Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as at of private meetings, without management The Audit Committee reviewed matters that date, the Company maintains an effective present, with both the Companys Chief concerning the internal audit and global system of disclosure controls and procedures.
Internal Auditor and the lead partners from the finance functions, including the GIA Companys external audit firm.
The purpose internal audit and the KPMG audit plan.
of these meetings was to facilitate free 1 and open discussions between the Audit The Audit Committee reviewed the amount www.
com article 11156. aspx 74 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There was no change in the Companys iii At all times to ensure that the Company Science Committee internal control over financial reporting that complies to the fullest extent appropriate The members of the Science Committee occurred during the period covered by this and practicable with the Combined Code are Jane Henney, Erna Mller, Dame Bridget Annual Report and Form 20-F Information setting out Principles of Good Governance Ogilvie until 27 April 2006 and Dame Nancy that has materially affected, or is reasonably and the Code of Best Practice annexed Rothwell who became Chairman of the likely to materially affect, the Companys to the Listing Rules of the Financial Committee when she joined the Committee internal control over financial reporting.
in July 2006, Jan Lundberg, John Patterson and Christopher Reilly.
They are all NonThe Audit Committee is currently scheduled A copy of the Remuneration Committees Executive Directors, except Jan Lundberg, 1 to meet seven times in 2007. remit is available on the Companys website.
John Patterson and Christopher Reilly.
Erna Mller will step down at the 2007 AGM.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met four times The members of the Remuneration Committee in 2006.
Each meeting was attended by all of The remit of the Science Committee is: are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman of the its members, except that other commitments Committee, John Buchanan, Joe Jimenez, prevented John Buchanan from attending i To provide assurance to the Board Erna Mller and since 26 July 2006 the meetings on 1 February and 6 December.
regarding the quality, integrity and John Varley.
They are all Non-Executive John Varley joined the Committee on 26 July competitiveness of AstraZenecas Directors.
The Board considers them all to and only attended meetings after that date.
science-based research and development be independent.
The Committee will aim to Executive Directors is discussed in more Further information about the Companys assure itself that the approaches and detail on page 76. remuneration policy and practice is set out in targets adopted throughout the R&D the Directors Remuneration Report on organisation are competitive and an Sir Peter Bonfield and Erna Mller will step pages 82 to 94. appropriate use of shareholder funds, but down at the AGM in 2007, and Sir Peters it will not be expected to review individual role as Chairman of the Committee will be Nomination Committee research or licensing projects.
The members of the Nomination Committee during 2006 were Louis Schweitzer Chairman ii To consider reports from or join any The remit of the Remuneration Committee is of the Committee, Hkan Mogren, Sir Peter meeting with any relevant external as follows: Bonfield, Jane Henney and Joe Jimenez.
advisory board when AstraZeneca is All the current members of the Nomination considering entry into new areas of i After appropriate consultation with the Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, With the exception of the Chairman and to make recommendations to the Board Dr Mogren for the reasons explained below, iii To review, from time to time, together with on the Companys policy for executive the Board considers them all to be independent other external experts important bioethical remuneration and to determine, on for the purposes of the UK Combined Code issues faced by AstraZeneca and to assist behalf of the Board, the entire individual on Corporate Governance and applicable in the formulation of, and to agree on remuneration package, including the corporate governance standards of the NYSE.
behalf of the Board, appropriate policies terms and conditions of employment and in relation to such issues.
the retirement severance provisions in The Nomination Committee met twice in 2006. relation to the Chairman, the Deputy The remit of the Nomination Committee is to iv To consider with external experts, from Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, make proposals to the Board for any new time to time, future trends in medical Executive Directors, the Secretary and appointments as Directors of the Company.
such other senior managers as may be Any decisions relating to the appointment of determined by the Chief Executive Officer.
a director are made by the entire Board and A copy of the Science Committees remit is 1 not the Nominations Committee.
The principal available on the Companys website.
In formulating its proposals, the Committee tasks in relation to nomination matters in 2006 is required to give such persons every related to the appointment of John Varley in The Science Committee met twice in 2006, encouragement to enhance the Companys anticipation of Sir Peter Bonfield stepping when it reviewed and discussed its remit performance and to ensure that they are down at the next AGM and the appointment and modus operandi, the Companys fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their of Dame Nancy Rothwell as successor to cardiovascular research and development individual contributions.
All members participated in both meetings, one of which was held by ii To make recommendations to the Board The Nomination Committee also reviewed the teleconference.
for the Companys Executive Share Option balance of the Board and the requirements Scheme and Employee and Executive for future Non-Executive Directors.
Performance Bonus Schemes and any other similar schemes and to exercise the A copy of the Nomination Committees remit 1 powers of the Directors under the rules of is available on the Companys website.
com article 11156. aspx DIRECTORS REPORT 75 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE requirements, and confirm they have reported The Company has complied with those UK Combined Code on any control weaknesses through the provisions of the Act applicable to foreign Corporate Governance Companys continuous assurance process.
The Board believes that, prior to the The Board has prepared this report with Act coming into force, the Company already reference to the UK Combined Code on The Directors believe that the Company had a sound corporate governance Corporate Governance published in July 2003 maintains an effective, embedded system framework, good processes for the accurate by the Financial Reporting Council, as of internal controls and complies with the and timely reporting of its financial position amended in June 2006, and related guidance.
and results of operations and an effective and robust system of internal controls.
The Company is applying all the main and Group Risk & Control Policy Consequently, the Companys approach to supporting principles of good governance in Risk Advisory Group compliance with the Act has principally involved the Combined Code.
The way in which these The Company views the careful management the development and adjustment of its existing principles are being applied is described below.
of risk as a key management activity.
Through corporate governance framework and the adoption by the Board of a Group Risk & associated processes concerning reporting, The Company is complying with all of the Control Policy and supporting standards, the internal controls and other relevant matters.
provisions of the Combined Code.
Company has sought to confirm and formalise the drive to manage business risks as a key For information about the work undertaken Internal controls and management of risk element of all activities.
during 2006 to enable the Company to The Board has overall responsibility for the comply with the SEC rules that implement Companys system of internal controls, which Supporting line management activities is section 404 see the Financial Review on aims to safeguard shareholders investments a dedicated risk management team who page 67.
The Directors assessment of the and the Companys assets, and to ensure that help to ensure key risks are identified and effectiveness of the internal control over proper accounting records are maintained communicated appropriately.
The outputs of financial reporting is set out on page 96 and that the financial information used within this team are reviewed by the Risk Advisory Directors Responsibilities.
the business and for publication is accurate, Group RAG, which comprises senior reliable and fairly presents the financial position representatives from each business function.
The New York Stock Exchange of the Company and the results of its business The RAG considers new and emerging risks The Company, as a foreign issuer with operations.
The Board is also responsible for as well as risks across different parts of the American Depositary Shares listed on the reviewing the effectiveness of the system of organisation.
It also plays an important role in NYSE, must disclose any significant ways internal controls.
The system is designed to promoting continuous improvement in the in which its corporate governance practices provide reasonable not necessarily absolute management of risk by sharing best practice differ from those followed by US companies assurance of effective operations and throughout the organisation.
It is chaired by under the NYSEs corporate governance compliance with laws and regulations.
For more the Chief Financial Officer and reports twice a listing standards.
In addition, the Company information, refer to the paragraphs relating year to the Senior Executive Team.
The must comply fully with the provisions of the to the Audit Committee and the US SarbanesRAGs reports on the Companys risk profile listing standards that relate to the composition, Oxley Act of 2002 on pages 72 and 75. are reviewed by both the Audit Committee responsibilities and operation of audit and the Board.
These provisions incorporate Turnbull Report guidance the rules concerning audit committees Since the publication in September 1999 The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented by the SEC under the Act.
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary Shares in England and Wales of the Turnbull Report, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange The Company has reviewed the corporate Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on NYSE and, accordingly, the Company is governance practices required to be followed the Combined Code, the Directors have subject to the reporting and other requirements by US companies under the NYSEs listing continued to review the effectiveness of the of the US Securities and Exchange Commission standards and its corporate governance Groups system of controls, risk management SEC applicable to foreign issuers.
The US practices are generally consistent with those and the Companys high-level internal control Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Act came into force standards.
However, not all members of arrangements.
These reviews have included at the end of July 2002.
As a result of its NYSE the Nomination Committee are considered an assessment of internal controls, and in listing, the Company is subject to those independent for these purposes see particular internal financial controls, supported provisions of the Act applicable to foreign explanation below.
by management assurance of the maintenance issuers.
Section 404 of this legislation requires of control, reports from the Group Internal companies to include in their annual report The Companys Audit Committee complies Audit function, as well as the external auditor filed with the SEC a report by management with the provisions of the listing standards on matters identified in the course of its stating its responsibility for establishing that relate to the composition, responsibilities statutory audit work.
internal control over financial reporting and and operation of audit committees.
In August to assess annually the effectiveness of such 2006, the Company submitted the required Underpinning these reviews is an annual internal control.
In addition, the external annual written affirmation to the NYSE letter of assurance process by which auditor is required to attest to and report on confirming its full compliance with those and responsible managers confirm the adequacy managements assessment.
As a foreign other applicable provisions.
More detailed of their systems of internal financial and issuer that qualifies as a large accelerated information about the Audit Committee and non-financial controls, their compliance with filer, AstraZeneca is first required to comply its work during 2006 is set out in the Audit Company policies and relevant laws and with section 404 in respect of its financial Committees Report above.
regulations including the industrys regulatory year ended 31 December 2006.
76 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Independence of Directors under the Sir Peter is a Non-Executive Director of Code of Conduct UK Combined Code Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.
Marcus The policy of the Company is to require all During 2006, the Board considered the Wallenberg is also a Non-Executive Director of of its subsidiaries, and their employees, to independence of each Non-Executive Director, Ericsson.
Investor AB, of which Mr Wallenberg observe high ethical standards of integrity including Dame Nancy Rothwell and John was Chief Executive Officer until 1 September and honesty and to act with due skill, care, Varley.
With the exception of two of them 2005, held approximately 5% of Ericssons diligence and fairness in the conduct of as set out below and the Chairman, the shares representing approximately 19% of the business.
The Companys management Board considers that all of the Non-Executive voting rights at 31 December 2006.
The Board seeks to reinforce the standards outlined Directors are independent in character and is satisfied that Sir Peters presence on the in the Code of Conduct throughout the judgement and that there are no relationships Ericsson Board results from his broad business.
In particular, all employees are or circumstances that are likely to affect their experience of the global telecommunications required to comply with the letter and spirit independent judgement.
The Board also industry and not from any connection with of the AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and considers that Louis Schweitzer, who was Investor AB or the Wallenberg family.
The Board with the standards detailed by the Company appointed Non-Executive Chairman with also had regard to the length of time that Sir in support of it.
effect from 1 January 2005, was independent Peter has served as a Non-Executive Director on appointment.
In accordance with the of the Company he was first appointed to The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct is 1 Combined Code, the Board has not the Zeneca Group PLC board in 1995. available on the Companys website.
It is an subsequently considered the independence important demonstration of the Companys of the Chairman.
The position of Senior Non-Executive Director uncompromising commitment to honesty and of the Company was established in 2002, integrity.
The Company maintains For the reasons explained below, the Board and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer procedures for raising integrity concerns, does not believe that Hkan Mogren, Nonhave only been in their roles since January which include a confidential helpline for Executive Deputy Chairman, or Marcus 2005 and 2006 respectively.
During 2006, 106 Wallenberg can be determined independent therefore asked Sir Peter to continue in the employees used the confidential helpline and under the revised Combined Code.
However, role for one more year to provide valuable other routes to seek guidance on corporate the Board believes that both Dr Mogren and further continuity, and he was re-elected at responsibility issues or to raise concerns, Mr Wallenberg have brought, and continue to the AGM in 2006.
Sir Peter intends to step all of which were reviewed by Group Internal bring, considerable business experience and down as a Director of the Company at the Audit and reported on, as appropriate, to the to make valuable contributions to the work of AGM in 2007, after which Michele Hooper will Audit Committee.
To date, no material issues the Board.
become the Senior Non-Executive Director.
have been identified through this route.
Dr Mogren was previously the Chief Executive Professor Mller is the Chief Executive Officer The Company also has a Finance Code Officer of Astra AB and Executive Deputy of the Board of the Knut and Alice Wallenberg of Conduct that complements the main Chairman of the Company and is now a Foundation, a charitable foundation in AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and applies member of the Board of Directors of Investor Sweden that supports scientific research to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief AB, a company that, as at 31 December 2006, and educational programmes by awarding Financial Officer and the Companys principal held approximately 3.37% of the Ordinary financial grants to individuals or institutions.
accounting officers including key Finance staff Shares of the Company.
This holding Although one of the Foundations principal in major overseas subsidiaries.
The Finance represents a significant proportion of Investor investments is in Investor AB, all investment Code of Conduct also applies to all Finance ABs overall investment portfolio.
decisions of the Foundation are made by function employees and reinforces the its investment committee, of which Professor importance of the integrity of the Companys Mr Wallenberg was a member of the Board Mller is not a member.
Her role, as Financial Statements, of the reliability of the of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Chief Executive Officer of the Board of the accounting records on which they are based Investor AB until 1 September 2005, when Foundation, is principally to lead the scrutiny and of the robustness of the relevant controls he stepped down.
of applications for grants and maintain close and processes.
contacts with scientific and educational The Board also considered, in particular, institutions in Sweden to develop the work The Group policies are available on a dedicated the positions of Sir Peter Bonfield, Senior of the Foundation.
intranet site, the availability and purpose of Non-Executive Director, Erna Mller and which has been communicated throughout Jane Henney.
For the reasons explained Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director of the organisation.
below, it is the Boards view that they are AmerisourceBergen Corporation and CIGNA independent.
Each discharges his or her Corporation, both of which are customers of Group Internal Audit duties in a properly independent manner and the Company in the US.
The Board considered Group Internal Audit GIA is an independent constructively and appropriately challenges these relationships and concluded that they appraisal function that derives its authority the Executive Directors and the Board.
did not compromise her independence.
from the Board through the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to provide reasonable and objective assurance about the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys financial control framework, compliance with laws, regulations and policies and risk management processes.
com article 511609. aspx DIRECTORS REPORT 77 Governance GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities the Chief Executive Officer and the SET are reviews.
During 2006, the Board and SET set down in its charter by reviewing: documented, as are the Companys undertook a review of the business performance delegated authorities and reserved powers, management report process and the measures The processes for ensuring that business the means of operation of the business and used therein.
A new form of report will be risks are effectively managed.
the roles of corporate functions.
For more details see Measuring Performance on page 15.
The financial and operational controls that The Chief Executive Officer has established help to ensure that the Companys assets and chairs the SET.
Whilst the Chief Disclosure Policy and are properly safeguarded from losses, Executive Officer retains full responsibility for Disclosure Committee including fraud.
the authority delegated to him by the Board, The Companys Disclosure Policy provides the SET is the vehicle through which he a framework for the handling and disclosure The controls that help to ensure the exercises that authority in respect of the of inside information and other information of reliability and integrity of management Companys business including Aptium interest to shareholders and the investment information systems.
It also defines the role of the Disclosure Committee.
The Chief Financial The processes for ensuring compliance The members of the SET are David Brennan, Officer, the Executive Director, Development, with policies and procedures and Chief Executive Officer: Jonathan Symonds, the Group Secretary and Solicitor, the Viceexternal legislation and regulation other Chief Financial Officer: John Patterson, President, Corporate Affairs and the Global than those relating to safety, health and Executive Director, Development: Bruno Head of Investor Relations were the members the environment and product regulatory Angelici, Executive Vice-President, Europe, of the Disclosure Committee during 2006. compliance, which are the responsibility Japan, Asia Pacific and rest of world: Tony The Disclosure Committee meets regularly of other audit functions.
Zook, Executive Vice-President, North to assist and inform the decisions of the Chief America: Jan Lundberg, Executive ViceExecutive Officer concerning inside information On an ad hoc basis, whether value for President, Discovery Research: Martin and its disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews the money is obtained in terms of efficient Nicklasson, Executive Vice-President, Global Companys disclosure controls and procedures use of the Companys resources.
Marketing formerly Global Marketing and and its own operation as part of work carried Business Development : David Smith, out to enable management and the Board to GIA also reviews other functions and risk Executive Vice-President, Operations: and assure themselves that appropriate processes areas, at the request of the Audit Committee Tony Bloxham, Executive Vice-President, are operating for the Companys planned and senior management and acts as a source Human Resources.
disclosures, such as its quarterly results of constructive advice and best practice, announcements and scheduled investor assisting senior management with its The SET normally meets once a month to relations events.
In addition, the Disclosure responsibility to improve governance, consider and decide major business issues.
Committee members are members of the control, compliance and risk management.
It also usually reviews those matters that are steering group that reviews the drafts of, and of a size or importance to require the attention the process for preparing, this Annual Report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, of, or that are reserved to, the Board before and Form 20-F Information.
THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM AND such matters are submitted to the Board for DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY review and decision.
Recognising the importance to shareholders The Chief Executive Officer has been and the investment community of news about delegated authority from, and is responsible Business objectives and performance certain of the Companys key development and to, the Board for directing and promoting the Each business function eg R&D, Operations marketed products, much of the Disclosure profitable operation and development of the is subject to an annual budget and targetCommittees work in 2006 focused on Company, consistent with the primary aim of setting process, including forecasts for the ensuring that accurate, complete and timely enhancing long-term shareholder value in following two years together with a sensitivity disclosures were made concerning Exanta, relation to all matters save those which have and risk analysis, quarterly updates of the Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort, been specifically reserved for the Board.
forecast for the current year and regular NXY-059, Galida, Toprol-XL and Iressa.
Performance reviews are important area of focus was transactions such The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the undertaken regularly in each part of the as the agreement with Abraxis BioScience Board for the management and performance business.
The Companys quarterly business Inc. to co-promote Abraxane and the of the Companys businesses within the performance management report process acquisition of Cambridge Antibody Technology framework of Company policies, reserved uses a broad range of measures that link Group plc.
Throughout 2006, the Disclosure powers and routine reporting requirements.
directly to the achievement of key business Committee met monthly to review a rolling He is obliged to refer certain major matters priorities linked to the overall business strategy.
schedule of key news concerning the Company defined in the formal delegation of the Boards Treasury operations are centralised, operate and its products and activities.
The schedule authority back to the Board.
The roles of the within defined limits and are subject to regular was subsequently reviewed on a monthly basis Board, the Boards committees, the Chairman, reporting requirements and Audit Committee by the SET.
In addition, the Disclosure 78 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 Committee held frequent ad hoc meetings to share plans, are given in Note 29 to the provides a flexible means of returning value to review specific disclosure issues.
shareholders, while allowing the Company to manage its capital structure more efficiently Disclosure of information to auditors Mandatory shareholding for Directors over time.
The Directors who held office at the date of The Companys Articles of Association require approval of this Directors Report confirm each Director to be the beneficial owner of Shareholders have different preferences, that, so far as they are each aware, there is Ordinary Shares in the Company with an and the Board believes the combination of no relevant audit information of which the aggregate nominal value of $125 500 shares.
regular cash dividends and share buyback Companys auditors are unaware: and each Such holding must be obtained within programmes enables it to balance the interests Director has taken all the steps that he she two months of the date of the Directors of all shareholder groups.
ought to have taken as a Director to make appointment.
At 31 December 2006, all of himself herself aware of any relevant audit the Directors complied with this requirement The Board continually reviews its shareholders information and to establish that the Companys and full details of each Directors interests return strategy, and in 2006 re-stated its auditors are aware of that information.
in shares of the Company are set out in the intention to grow dividends in line with earnings Directors Remuneration Report on pages 91 growth, whilst ensuring the dividend remains OTHER MATTERS to 94. covered by at least two times earnings.
Subsidiaries and principal activities AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company Shareholder communications The Board also firmly believes the first call on for a group of subsidiaries whose principal In its financial reporting to shareholders and free cash flow is investment in the business, activities are described in the Business Review other interested parties by means of annual after which surplus cash should be returned on pages 8 to 70.
Principal subsidiaries and and quarterly reports, the Board aims to to the shareholders.
Accordingly, in 2007 their locations are given on page 148. present a balanced and understandable the Board intends to return $4 billion of funds assessment of the Companys financial to shareholders via a share re-purchase Branches position and prospects.
Should there be additional cash The following members of the AstraZeneca inflow during 2007 from the issue of shares Group have representative or scientific The Company maintains a corporate website in respect of employees exercising share offices outside the UK: containing a wide range of information of options, the Board will consider extending interest to institutional and private investors: the re-purchase programme to include this AstraZeneca UK Limited: Bulgaria, Chile, astrazeneca.
Croatia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ghana scientific office, Romania, Russia, Serbia & Montenegro, The Company has frequent discussions with During 2006, the Company purchased Slovenia and Ukraine.
institutional shareholders on a range of issues 72.2 million of its own Ordinary Shares with a affecting its performance.
These include nominal value of $0.25 each for cancellation, AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office, meetings following the announcement of the at an aggregate cost of $4.1 billion.
Also Latvia, Saudi Arabia scientific office annual results with the Companys largest during 2006, 23.5 million shares were issued and Slovakia.
institutional shareholders on an individual in respect of employee share plans for a basis.
In addition, the Company responds total consideration of $1.0 billion.
The net AstraZeneca Export and Trading AB: Estonia, to individual ad hoc requests for discussions number of shares re-purchased in 2006 was Lithuania and United Arab Emirates.
The Senior therefore 48.7 million, which represents 3.1% Non-Executive Director is available to of the Companys issued share capital at Dividend shareholders if they have concerns that 1 January 2006.
The Companys dividends for 2006 of $1.72 contact through the normal channels of 89.6 pence, SEK 12.20 per Ordinary Share Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Since the Company began its share amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or for re-purchase programmes in 1999, a total payment to shareholders of $2,649 million.
which such contact is inappropriate.
of 282.8 million Ordinary Shares have been purchased for cancellation at an aggregate Going concern accounting basis All shareholders, including private investors, cost of $13.3 billion.
This represents In view of the Companys resources, results of have an opportunity at the AGM to put approximately 15.9% of the Companys total operations and overall financial condition, the questions to members of the Board on issued share capital at the time the re-purchase Directors continue to adopt the going concern matters relating to the Companys operation programme commenced in 1999. basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Company continues to maintain robust Changes in share capital Returns to Shareholders controls in respect of all aspects of the share Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share The Companys stated distribution policy re-purchase programme to ensure compliance capital during 2006, including details of the comprises both a regular cash dividend allotment of new shares under the Companys and a share re-purchase component, which DIRECTORS REPORT 79 Governance with English law and the FSAs Listing Rules, Use of financial instruments Disclosure Rules and Prospectus Rules.
For information on the Companys use of In particular, the Companys Disclosure financial instruments, see Notes 14 and 15 Committee meets to ensure that the Company to the Financial Statements pages 114 does not purchase its own shares during and 115. prohibited periods.
At the AGM on 26 April 2007, the Company will seek a renewal of Creditor payment policy its current permission from shareholders to It is not Company policy formally to comply purchase its own shares.
with the Confederation of British Industrys code of practice on the prompt payment of Political donations suppliers.
It is, however, Company policy to Under the UKs Political Parties, Elections agree to appropriate payment terms with all and Referendums Act 2000 the Act, suppliers when agreeing to the terms of each shareholder authority is required for political transaction, to ensure that those suppliers donations to be made or political expenditure are made aware of the terms of payment and, to be incurred by the Company or its subject to their compliance, abide by the terms subsidiaries in the EU.
Neither the Company of payment.
The total amount of money owed nor its subsidiaries made any donations by AstraZeneca PLCs subsidiaries to trade or incurred any expenditure in 2006 in the EU creditors at the balance sheet date was in respect of which shareholder authority or equivalent to 74 days average purchases.
disclosure in this Directors Report is required No equivalent disclosure is provided in under the Act.
Neither the Company nor its respect of AstraZeneca PLC, as it has no subsidiaries intend to make any such external creditors.
donations or incur any such expenditure in the EU in the foreseeable future.
However, Annual General Meeting the Act defines political organisation broadly The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday and, for example, interest groups or lobbying 26 April 2007.
The principal meeting place organisations concerned with the review of will be in London.
There will be a simultaneous government policy or law reform may be satellite meeting in Stockholm.
External auditor To enable the Company to continue to support A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on such organisations without inadvertently 26 April 2007 for the re-appointment of KPMG breaching the Act, a resolution will, as in Audit Plc, London as auditor of the Company.
previous years, be proposed at the AGM on 26 April 2007 to authorise the Company The external auditor has undertaken various to make donations or incur expenditure in pieces of non-audit work for the Company the European Union up to an aggregate limit during 2006.
More information about this of $150,000.
work and the audit and non-audit fees paid by the Company are set out in Note 28 to the In 2006, AstraZenecas US legal entities Financial Statements on page 146.
The made contributions amounting in aggregate external auditor is not engaged by the to $416,675 2005 $255,470 to state political Company to carry out any non-audit work party committees and to campaign committees on which it might, in the future, be required to of various state candidates affiliated with express an audit opinion.
As explained more the major parties in accordance with prefully in the Audit Committees Report on established guidelines.
All contributions were pages 72 to 74, the Audit Committee made only where allowed by US federal and has established pre-approval policies and state law.
American nationals those with valid procedures for audit and non-audit work green cards exercised decision-making permitted to be carried out by the external over the contributions and the funds were not auditor and has carefully monitored the provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal objectivity and independence of the external entity.
Such contributions do not constitute auditor throughout 2006. political donations or political expenditure for the purposes of the UKs Political Parties, On behalf of the Board Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and G H R MUSKER were made without any involvement of Group Secretary and Solicitor persons or entities outside the US.
