Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:50 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -531222162 REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE The Nominating Committee consisted of the Chairman, the BOARD EVALUATION Deputy Chairman, Maarten van den Bergh and John Nelson, During summer 2005, the Board carried out, through a throughout the 2006 financial year.
Three of its four members questionnaire and discussion with directors, its third formal are independent non-executive directors.
The Secretary and, evaluation of Board and Board committee performance and where appropriate, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief effectiveness.
The individual performance of directors was also Executive attends the Committees meetings.
evaluated at one-to-one sessions with the Chairman.
The Deputy Chairman, Sir Anthony Greener, the senior independent COMMITTEE ROLE AND ACTIVITIES director, led the review of the Chairmans performance in The Nominating Committee ensures an appropriate balance of consultation with the non-executive and executive directors.
experience and abilities on the Board, using this evaluation to The results of that evaluation were considered by the Board review the size and composition of the Board and to in July 2005.
The directors considered BTs Board processes recommend any proposed changes to the Board.
It keeps under and effectiveness to be good.
Key areas highlighted were: the review the need for appointments to the Board, prepares a need for continued focus on Board diversity: continued efforts description of the specic experience and skills needed for an to maintain visibility of major capital projects including post appointment, considers candidates who are put forward by the project reviews : and the amount of time available at Board directors and external consultants, and recommends to the meetings for more free-ranging discussion.
These matters are Board the appointments of all directors after having met shortbeing addressed.
Further evaluations will be carried out listed candidates.
It also reviews the time required from the annually.
Deputy Chairman and other non-executive directors to carry out Separate questionnaires about Audit Committee effectiveness their duties and advises the Board on succession planning for were also completed and the results are reviewed on page 48 in the positions of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief the Report of the Audit Committee.
Executive and all other Board appointments.
The Committee met four times during the 2006 financial year.
It reviewed Board succession, the size, prole and composition of the Board and the Board and Board committee evaluation questionnaire and process.
The Committee also reviewed and recommended to the Board the continued appointments of non-executive directors and the new appointments of Matti Alahuhta and Phil Hodkinson.
The terms of reference of the Nominating Committee are posted on the companys website at: www.
The minutes of Nominating Committee meetings are sent, at their request, to directors who are not members of the Committee.
Report of the Nominating Committee BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 49
