Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:50 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 807602047 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Anthony Greener, the COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
The other During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed members are Maarten van den Bergh, Clay Brendish, Phil the standards of risk management and internal control, the Hodkinson, John Nelson and Carl Symon.
They are all effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting, accounting independent non-executive directors.
They were members of policies and procedures, and the companys statements on the Committee throughout the 2006 financial year with the internal controls before they are agreed by the Board for each exception of Phil Hodkinson who was appointed on 1 February years annual report.
It also reviewed the companys internal 2006.
Lou Hughes stepped down on 31 March 2006 when he audit function and its relationship with the external auditors, stepped down from the Board.
The Board considers that the including internal audits plans and performance.
It reviewed Committees members have broad commercial knowledge and the arrangements for dealing, in confidence, with complaints extensive business leadership experience, having held various from employees about accounting or financial management roles in accountancy, financial management and supervision, impropriety, fraud, poor business practices and other matters.
treasury and corporate finance and that there is a broad and At each of its meetings it reviewed with the group chief internal suitable mix of business, financial and IT experience on the auditor and appropriate executives the implementation and Committee.
The Board has reviewed membership of the effectiveness of key operational and functional change and Committee and is satisfied that several of the Committees remedial programmes including major contracts and IT members have the recent and relevant financial experience programmes.
The Committee also set aside time at every required for the provisions of the Combined Code and, with the meeting to seek the views of the companys internal and appointment of Phil Hodkinson, it is the opinion of the Board external auditors in the absence of executives.
that the Audit Committee includes a member who is an audit In addition to carrying out those regular tasks described committee financial expert for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley above under the Committees terms of reference, which are Act of 2002. posted on the companys website at www.
com committees, the Committee also carried out its annual consideration of the COMMITTEE ROLE groups risk register process, and reviewed the companys The Committee recommends the appointment and system of internal control, its accounting systems, IT security reappointment of the companys external auditors and and fraud and related matters.
It also considered the effect on considers their resignation or dismissal, recommending to the the companys results of the introduction of international Board appropriate action to appoint new auditors.
It ensures financial reporting standards, which have applied to the that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals.
It companys results for the 2006 financial year.
Additionally, the discusses with the auditors the scope of their audits before they Committee has reviewed at each of its meetings during the commence, reviews the results and considers the formal reports 2006 financial year the steps being taken within the group with of the auditors and reports the results of those reviews to the regard to the application of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act dealing with Board.
It reviews the auditors performance, including the scope the internal control over financial reporting.
It also specically of the audit, and recommends to the Board appropriate evaluated its performance and processes by again inviting remuneration.
Committee members and several executives and the external As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be auditors to complete questionnaires.
This process formed part necessary to employ the companys external auditors for certain of the annual Board and Committee evaluation.
In order to safeguard the independence and members, and those others consulted, regard the Committee as objectivity of the external auditors, the Board has determined effective on both behaviours and processes.
There is a similar policies as to what non-audit services can be provided by the view too of the external audit process, which is regarded as companys external auditors and the approval processes related effective.
The evaluation highlighted the need for the to them.
Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will Committee to consider action both to reduce paperwork and to not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear increase the length of the quarterly meetings to give more efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
The discussion time, if at all possible.
The Committee also reviewed overall policies and the processes to implement them were the experience, skills and succession planning within the reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of the Groups finance function.
provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to The Group Finance Director, the Secretary, the groups chief non-audit services that external auditors may not perform.
The internal auditor and the companys external auditors attend the Audit Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work being Committees meetings.
The Committee met four times during performed by the companys auditors and approves such work the 2006 financial year.
The minutes of Audit Committee before it is undertaken.
It also monitors the level of non-audit meetings are sent, at their request, to directors who are not fees paid to the external auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the companys published financial results, the Annual Report and Form 20-F and other published information for statutory and regulatory compliance.
It reports its views to the Board to assist it in its approval of the results announcements and the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
The Committee also reviews the disclosure made by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the certication process for the annual report about the design or operation of internal controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in the companys financial controls.
The Board, as required by UK law, takes responsibility for all disclosures in the annual report.
48 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Report of the Audit Committee
