Audit Committee report Role of the Committee External Auditors The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The Audit processes, and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk Committee has reviewed those services provided by the external management system.
In pursuing these objectives, the Committee: Auditors throughout the year in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditors.
This monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company policy notes that such services are likely to fall within the following types: and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial a financial statements and external reports, b acquisitions, c performance: disposals, d taxation and e other services.
It identifies three categories makes recommendations to the Board regarding the adoption of non-audit services: permitted engagements that require no specific of annual and interim financial reports: approval: permitted engagements requiring the approval of the Committee Chairman: and engagements that are not permitted.
reviews the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: In accordance with its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved the external Auditors plans for the audit of the Companys 2006 financial monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal statements.
In approving the terms of engagement for the audit, the audit function: Committee considered the proposed audit fee and associated expenses.
makes recommendations to the Board regarding the external Auditors During the year the Committee performed its annual review of the and their terms of appointment: effectiveness of the Companys external Auditors, and has recommended reviews and monitors the external Auditors independence and to the Board that  LLP be reappointed as the objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: external Auditors of the Company.
The Committee remains satisfied as to the independence of the external Auditors following a review at its is responsible for developing and implementing a policy on the meeting on 6 March 2007, and has received written confirmation from engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit services: and the external Auditors to this effect.
A new senior audit engagement makes recommendations to the Board in relation to whistleblowing partner was appointed during the year in accordance with professional policies and procedures.
standards on the rotation of key audit staff.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access Internal audit and monitoring of control issues to the services of the internal audit function and to the external Auditors, At its meetings during 2006, the Committee reviewed the results of the and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Both the Head audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the of Internal Audit and the external Auditors have direct access to adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the Chairman of the Committee outside formal committee meetings.
the implementation of recommendations made by the function.
It also reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the coming year and The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority the level of resources allocated to the internal audit function.
These are considered annually by the Audit effectiveness of the internal audit function was reviewed based primarily Committee and any proposed changes are referred to the Board for on guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Committees current terms of reference are available upon internal promotion of the existing Head of Internal Audit, since the year request from the Company Secretary and on the Companys website.
end a new Head of Internal Audit has been appointed.
Membership The Committee reviewed the reports from the internal audit function and The Committee presently comprises John Biles Chairman, the Hon.
the external Auditors on the Companys systems of internal control and James Bruce, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne, all of whom are reported to the Board on the results of these reviews.
Further details of considered independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the Code.
the Companys system of internal control and its policies and procedures Their biographical details are set out on page 35.
There were no changes can be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 41. to the membership of the Committee during 2006.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Whistleblowing The Company has adopted a whistleblowing policy, which has been The Board, as part of the review of the effectiveness of the Board and its monitored by the Audit Committee during the course of 2006. committees, has satisfied itself that The Hon.
James Bruce, John Biles and Andrew Osborne all have recent and relevant financial experience, Issues that have, during the year, been raised through the Companys as defined in the Code.
whistleblowing procedures have been considered by the Committee, and any follow-up actions have been taken as and when required.
Report on the Committees activities in 2006 Meetings and attendance On behalf of the Committee The Committee met on four occasions in 2006 timed to coincide with John Biles the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Committee members Chairman of the Audit Committee attendance at the meetings held during the year is set out in the table 14 March 2007 contained in the Corporate Governance report on page 39.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, representatives of the external Auditors, the Head of Internal Audit and senior financial executives from head office and the operations attended meetings by invitation for appropriate business.
In addition, the members of the Committee meet separately with the external Auditors and the Head of Internal Audit, to discuss matters without the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, during the year the Chairman of the Audit Committee has had additional meetings with the Companys senior financial managers to review a range of financial matters, and has also met with external and internal Auditors prior to Audit Committee meetings.
Financial reporting During 2006 the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters including the interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and significant areas of judgement that materially impacted reported results.
