Corporate governance 1 Compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils Combined The powers retained by the Board include the approval of annual Code on Corporate Governance the Code and interim results and associated announcements, the membership, The Board monitors its compliance with the requirements of the Code authority and terms of reference of Board committees, corporate on a continuous basis.
This report, in addition to the Remuneration strategy, significant financing arrangements, matters relating to share Report on pages 44 to 49, the Directors report on pages 37 and 38, and capital including employee share schemes and share options, contracts the Audit Committee Report on page 43, describes how the Company or expenditures that exceed certain monetary thresholds and the has applied and complied with the principles, supporting principles and adoption of annual budgets.
A number of matters have been delegated provisions contained in the Code that was published on 1 July 2003 to the Executive Committee under the Framework which are summarised and the subsequent amendments published in June 2006. below.
Any concerns that the Non-Executive Directors may have concerning either the administration of the Company or its subsidiaries Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the Board is of the and affiliates, or any proposed actions, are recorded in the minutes opinion that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Company where an alternative resolution cannot be found.
set out in Section 1 of the Code except for the following items: The Company has provided its Directors with appropriate insurance A.
2.1 The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive were both held by cover in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against them.
David Gawler for the first half of the year under review.
This position was Further details can be found in the Directors Report on page 37. originally approved by shareholders following his appointment in 2001.
David Gawler stepped down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2006 and The Board meets regularly and held 11 meetings during the course assumed the role of Executive Chairman.
At that time the Board agreed of 2006.
Details of attendance at meetings of the Board and its a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees are shown in the table Executive and the documents summarising their different roles are below.
There are 11 Board meetings scheduled to take place in 2007. available from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office or Agendas and supporting papers are distributed to Directors in advance on the Companys website at www.
of each meeting so that the meeting can benefit from informed debate.
No individuals other than the committee chairman and the members B.
1.5 The service contracts of Michael Foster and Robert Careless are entitled to be present at meetings of the Nominations, Audit and contain liquidated damages clauses which are in contrast to the Code Remuneration Committees, although others including the Executive requirements for outgoing directors to mitigate their loss.
The Board feels that these arrangements are not excessive and balance the Directors, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation and the external interests of shareholders with the need to ensure the retention of these Auditors may attend at the prior invitation of the relevant committee.
This policy has been revised regarding the service contracts Committees of new Executive Directors and therefore James Deeleys service Board Audit Remuneration Nominations contract does not contain any such provision.
Meetings held 11 4 9 4 C. 3.4 The Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to review arrangements by which staff of the Company and its subsidiaries may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in Meetings attended: financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements were formalised David Gawler 11 n a n a 4 and approved by the Audit Committee and implemented in March 2006.
As a result the Company has complied with this provision Michael Foster 11 n a n a 4 of the Code since April 2006.
Robert Careless 11 n a n a 4 2 Directors 1 a The Board and Board committees James Deeley 5 n a n a n a The Board conducts itself in such a way as to provide leadership to the 2 John Biles 11 4 9 0 Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective employees and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance The Hon.
James Bruce 10 4 9 4 and to the delivery of enhanced shareholder value in a manner consistent Grey Denham 9 4 8 3 with sound business practices and proper standards of corporate social 3 responsibility.
In providing such leadership, the Board focuses on integrity John Neill 9 n a n a n a and personal responsibility with the overriding objective of creating Andrew Osborne 11 4 9 4 shareholder value.
The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors and five 1 James Deeley was appointed on 10 July 2006 and attended all remaining meetings during the year.
2 John Biles was appointed to the Nominations Committee in June 2006.
There were no further Non-Executive Directors: meetings of the Nominations Committee in 2006 following his appointment.
3 John Neill was not a member of the Audit, Remuneration or Nominations Committees during the the Executive Chairman is David Gawler.
He was Chairman and year under review.
Chief Executive until he stood down as Chief Executive on 1 July 2006: i Nominations Committee the Chief Executive is Michael Foster.
He was the Commercial Director The Committee currently comprises David Gawler Chairman, until he became Chief Executive on 1 July 2006: and Michael Foster, John Biles, The Hon James Bruce, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne.
With the exception of John Biles and Michael Foster, the Senior Independent Director is The Hon.
James Bruce who held who were appointed to the Committee on 27 June 2006 and 24 January this position throughout the year under review.
2007 respectively, all were members throughout the year.
All of the The Board operates under a Management and Governance Framework members of the Committee, with the exception of David Gawler and the Framework which has been approved and adopted by the Board, Michael Foster, are considered independent Non-Executive Directors and which sets out a framework for the management and governance pursuant to the Code and accordingly a majority of the members of the of the Company and its subsidiaries and its affiliates.
The Framework a Committee are independent.
The Committee is responsible for making details the specific powers that the Board has retained, b describes recommendations to the Board concerning appointments to the Board, the formal committees that the Board has established details of which including the evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience required can be found below and the powers and terms of reference of such and the preparation of a job description for specific appointments.
During committees copies of which are available, unless otherwise indicated, the year the Committee led the process to appoint Michael Foster as on request from the Company Secretary or on the Companys website Chief Executive following the change in the role of David Gawler and and c addresses certain fundamental policies that the Board has adopted also recommended the appointment of James Deeley as Legal Director for the good governance of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
and Company Secretary following a rigorous process involving external The Framework is kept under regular review and is modified as and when executive recruitment consultants.
Under the terms of reference of the new situations, requirements or practices arise.
The Board ensures that Committee, the Chairman is not entitled to chair the Committee on the membership of its committees is refreshed so that undue reliance is matters regarding the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
not placed on individual Directors.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 39 Corporate governance continued The Board reviewed plans for orderly management succession in relation c Chairman and Chief Executive to both Board and senior management appointments at the Companys Whilst the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were combined for annual strategy conference in September 2006.
As a result of this review, the first half of 2006, with effect from 1 July 2006 David Gawlers role the Board believes that appropriate plans have been adopted to ensure in the Company changed to Executive Chairman when he stood down that the correct balance of skills and experience are maintained on the as Chief Executive.
Michael Foster was appointed as Chief Executive Board and within the senior management of the Company and its with effect from that date.
At that time the Board approved a clear division subsidiaries and affiliates.
The terms and conditions of appointment of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection during normal The Chairman now has the primary responsibility for leading the business hours at the registered office of the Company, in addition to Board and ensuring its effectiveness, and for ensuring that good being available at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
communications are maintained with shareholders, whilst the Chief Executive has the responsibility for running the Companys businesses.
ii Remuneration Committee At its meeting on 27 June 2006 the Board approved separate Throughout the year the Committee comprised The Hon.
James Bruce documents that set out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman Chairman, John Biles, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne, all of and the Chief Executive, copies of which are available from the Company whom are considered independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant Secretary or on the Companys website.
David Gawler has no significant to the Code.
commitments that require disclosure in relation to his chairmanship.
A detailed explanation of the role and activities of the Remuneration The Chairman periodically meets the Non-Executive Directors without Committee can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 49. the other Executive Directors present and maintains contact should they iii Executive Committee wish to raise any issues with him outside of the formal setting of the The Committee comprises the four Executive Directors, being David Gawler, monthly board meetings.
Michael Foster, Robert Careless and James Deeley, and the Chief Executive d Board balance and independence Officers of ESAB Global and Howden Global, being Jon Templeman and The Board currently comprises nine directors, four of whom are Bob Cleland respectively.
Jon Templeman and Bob Cleland were appointed Executive and five of whom are Non-Executive.
The Board believes to the Committee on 1 March 2006 and James Deeley became a member that this structure provides the correct balance of skills and experience on his appointment to the Board of the Company on 10 July 2006. appropriate for the business and would allow for any changes to the The remaining Executive Directors were members of the Committee Boards composition to be managed without undue disruption, whilst throughout the year.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place ensuring that the presence of five Non-Executive Directors prevents twice a month.
a concentration of power and influence in a small number of individuals.
The Board has delegated the necessary powers and authority to the The Board has determined that, with the exception of John Neill who is Executive Committee for the day to day management of the affairs no longer considered to be independent by virtue of his length of service of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates other than Anderson on the Board and his relationship with the Unipart Group of Companies Group Inc see paragraph b below, subject to powers that the Board which is summarised further below, all of the Non-Executive Directors are has either retained or explicitly delegated to the various other Board regarded as independent.
The Board does not consider that there exist committees.
The Committee operates in accordance with detailed terms any relationships or circumstances likely to affect the judgment of any of reference that form part of the Framework.
iv Disclosure Committee John Neill is Group Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of The Committee comprises David Gawler Chairman, Michael Foster, Robert Companies, whose subsidiary, Unipart Logistics Limited, provides Careless and James Deeley.
With the exception of James Deeley who was Lean-manufacturing and logistics consultancy services to ESAB appointed as an Executive Director on 10 July 2006, all were members Holdings Limited in accordance with arms length consultancy agreements.
The Committee is primarily responsible for the creation The Board greatly values the contribution and experience of John Neill and maintenance of appropriate procedures, systems and controls to and recommends his re-election at the forthcoming AGM as a ensure compliance by the Company with its obligations under the Disclosure Non-Executive Director.
and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
In particular, it has responsibility for the determination, on a timely basis, of the disclosure No Executive Directors currently hold any external Non-Executive treatment of material information, and assisting in, and where appropriate, Directorships of any FTSE 100 company carrying out the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of e Information and professional development disclosure controls and procedures that operate within the Company The Company Secretary, under the guidance of the Executive Chairman, and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
The Committee also has responsibility is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and for the identification of inside information, for the purpose of maintaining its committees.
All Directors of the Company have access to the advice the Companys insider lists as required by the FSAs Disclosure and and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent Transparency Rules.
professional advice on any matter relating to the Company at the v Audit Committee Companys expense.
In advance of Board and committee meetings, Details regarding the membership, role, responsibilities and work of the Directors and relevant committee members receive detailed papers Audit Committee during the year under review can be found in the Audit on the matters to be considered, enabling them to request further Committee Report on page 43. clarification or additional information and to participate fully in discussions.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the b Anderson Group Inc Board, through the Executive Chairman, on all governance matters The operations of ESAB and Howden in North America are managed and best practice.
by Anderson Group Inc AGI, a subsidiary of the Company.
AGIs Board is responsible for all aspects of the management of its affairs and for the The Company has a comprehensive induction process for all Noncorporate governance framework of the businesses that are operated Executive Directors when they join the Board.
This includes a detailed by its subsidiaries.
The Company exercises its rights as shareholder information pack which combines publicly available information of AGI by appointing two nominees as Non-Executive Directors to such as the report and accounts and product information, in addition the Board of AGI and they, on behalf of the Company, review matters to organised briefings with key members of the Board and senior of significance relating to its ownership interest in AGI such as board management and visits to the Companys businesses.
appointments, financial results, corporate strategy, major investments and divestments and corporate governance issues.
40 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 f Performance evaluation The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary Evaluation of the Board and its principal committees is conducted to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
by gathering feedback from the relevant members of the Board and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the committees on bespoke questionnaires, the results of which are collated web-site.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination and presented to the Board by the Chairman.
The Chairman is responsible of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
for conducting the performance evaluation of the Chief Executive, whilst the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are Going concern responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, also taking After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates have adequate resources conducts individual evaluations of the Executive Directors with the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this exception of the Executive Chairman against a number of pre-agreed reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing performance objectives.
The results of the evaluations were discussed by the Board and used ii Internal control to consider opportunities for improvement.
Minor changes to Board The Board has overall responsibility for the maintenance of a system of and committee procedures have been identified and are in the process internal control.
The Audit Committee has been formally delegated of being implemented.
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
g Reappointment The processes to manage the key risks to the success of the Company Under article 91 of the articles of association of the Company, up to oneand its businesses are reviewed and improved as necessary.
There third of the Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election is an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility each year.
At this years AGM, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne retire and delegation of authority and there are also established policies and by rotation and will offer themselves for re-election.
John Neill also offers procedures for monitoring each business.
While the operational control himself for re-election pursuant to the Code as he has served on the Board is largely decentralised and responsibility is delegated, the businesses of the Company for more than 9 years.
In addition, the appointment of are subject to the overall internal control framework.
This, by its nature, James Deeley as Legal Director and Company Secretary on 10 July 2006 can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material means that, in accordance with Article 97 of the Companys Articles of misstatement or loss.
Association, he must offer himself for election at the AGM.
The Board Detailed policies and procedures have been established by the Board or considers that these Directors continue to make an effective contribution to the Executive Committee dealing with numerous issues, including internal the business of the Company and as a result recommends their re-election.
Examples of internal control procedures are summarised below.
3 Accountability and Audit Assessment of business risk i Financial reporting A system of risk assessment and identification and evaluation of controls Statement of Directors responsibilities is embedded within the Companys management processes.
Strategic The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors risks and opportunities arising from changes in the business environment in relation to the consolidated financial statements and those of the are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and formally discussed Company.
The reports of the external Auditors, shown on pages 50 and by the Board.
Risks relating to key activities within the operating businesses 51, set out their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
and at the Companys head office are assessed on a continuous basis and reported to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Control environment of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and Under the Framework described on page 39, the Board sets overall of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
In preparing those policy and delegates the authority to implement that policy to the financial statements, the Directors are required to: Executive Committee, which is empowered to appoint nominees to the Board of AGI and to sub-delegate authority to the operating 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: businesses and operating units of ESAB Global and Howden Global.
2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: A well-defined organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority has been established.
3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, There are procedures for appraisal, review and authorisation of matters subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained: of significance, including investments, capital expenditure, borrowings, and guarantees, indemnities and material contracts.
4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern basis, Information and communication unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
The Companys operating procedures include a comprehensive system The applicable accounting standards referred to in 3 above are: for reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board, including: a UK GAAP for the Company: and the preparation and review of annual budgets: b IFRS as adopted by the European Union and implemented a review of the businesses at each Board meeting, focusing on any in the UK for the Group.
new risks arising for example, those relating to proposed major investments and key changes in the markets : and The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy the meetings between various Executive Directors and operational financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the management.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also Control procedures responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Detailed operational procedures are developed for each key activity that Company and its subsidiaries and, in that context, to have proper regard embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a are taken into account within these procedures.
Procedures are view to the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
established to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide and to ensure that all financial transactions are properly recorded.
the Auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and Accounting policies and practices are widely disseminated throughout undertake whatever inspections the Auditors consider to be appropriate the Companys subsidiaries and its affiliates.
for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 41 Corporate governance continued Monitoring process There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal controls.
The significant components of these are: The Managing Director and Finance Director of each operating company are required to review internal controls and to return a selfcertified internal control questionnaire confirming the effectiveness of internal control systems: Each operating company maintains a log of business risks.
Progress on action plans to mitigate high and medium risks is monitored in monthly management reviews that also check for newly emerging risks.
The Board reviews every six months the systems for risk management and monitors progress against action plans: As part of its audit visits to operating companies the internal audit function evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the findings of the internal audit process: The Audit Committee has specific responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and monitors the process of assessing the internal controls on behalf of the Board: and The Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are identified and assessed, and the effectiveness of controls over these risks are assessed by operating units, operational management and head office.
The Board confirms it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls described above for the financial year and up to the date of this report in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The review encompassed operational, financial and compliance controls as well as risk management.
The systems used included the following elements: As part of their ongoing reviews of the businesses, the Executive Directors and key management reviewed the effectiveness of strategic, operational and compliance internal controls and risk management.
This involved considering reports on key risk areas concentrating on significant changes in the risk profile and in the light of such reviews making appropriate amendments to policies and procedures to control risks: and The Board considered reports from the Audit Committee and the Executive Directors on these areas during the year and, at the time of approving the Annual Report and Accounts, considered a summary of the assessments of the effectiveness of the key risks and controls identified.
4 Relations with shareholders The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue with institutional shareholders through individual meetings.
Communications with private shareholders are conducted through the annual report, presentations at the AGM and the Companys website that includes descriptions of the Companys business operations.
The Board receives regular updates on all meetings and communications with major shareholders and major shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with the Non-Executive Directors from time to time.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be addressed through the regular channels such as the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
The Board is proposing a resolution at the forthcoming AGM to allow communication with shareholders via the publication of shareholder communications on its website following the legislative changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006 and the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This will enable quicker and more cost effective communication with shareholders.
