FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Statement on Corporate Governance This statement sets out how the Company has applied the main the directors informed about changes to their duties and and supporting principles of good governance set out in responsibilities, and advising the Board on all governance matters.
Section 1 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Governance, and whether or not the Company has complied matter for the Board as a whole.
throughout its accounting period with the provisions of Section 1 of the revised Combined Code.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense, if the The Board need should arise.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and four non-executive An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and directors.
The Board considers that three of the current its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed non-executive directors, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much directors.
The Company Secretary also provides detailed and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, are independent in character information on directors legal duties and responsibilities on and judgment, and meet the criteria for independence set out in appointment, and updates the Board on a regular basis with the revised Combined Code.
The directors biographical details regards to regulatory changes affecting the directors and the are set out on page 23.
Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the matters affecting the market in The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves the which they operate.
The Company meets the cost of appropriate Group's long-term goals and strategies and provides overall external training for directors, the requirement for which is kept financial and organisational control.
The Board has a formal under review by the Chairman.
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for consideration and approval, including: approval of the Groups corporate plan: The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief approval of the annual operating budgets: acquisitions, disposals Executive in accordance with the recommendations of the revised and major capital expenditure: financing and treasury: pensions: Combined Code.
The division of responsibilities between the reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk Chairman and the Chief Executive, and their respective job management: approving appointments to the Board and descriptions, are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
approving policies relating to directors remuneration: and maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders.
All directors In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
for: ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all decisions reserved to it: promoting constructive The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive relations between the executive and non-executive directors: Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies ensuring that the development needs of directors are identified and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of and the performance of the Board evaluated on a regular basis: operational and financial results against budget: allocation of and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and resources across the Group within the overall plan approved by acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders are the Board: capital expenditure within limits imposed by the communicated to the Board.
The Chairman has no significant Board: and developing and implementing risk management business commitments other than his chairmanship of the systems.
Further details of the Executive Committee are set out in Company.
the section of this report covering Board Committees.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively participate in timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to the development of strategic objectives and monitor the ensure that directors have sufficient information to make performance of executive management in achieving these expedient and considered decisions in fulfilment of their fiduciary objectives.
The non-executive directors also review financial duties.
Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved performance, and consider the integrity of the financial about the running of the Company or a proposed action, such information produced by the Group and whether the financial concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
controls and risk management systems are robust and defensible.
They meet regularly with the management of the Groups Each director has full access to the advice and services of the operating companies.
In addition to participating in Board Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, is meetings, the three independent non-executive directors are the responsible for maintaining good information flows within the members of the standing committees set up to deal with audit Board and its committees, assisting with induction and keeping and the remuneration of executive directors and senior P 35 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Statement on Corporate Governance - continued management.
The Board considers that the current balance of A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its executive and non-executive influence which exists is appropriate committees was undertaken during the year.
This was facilitated for the Company, taking into account its size and status.
by the Chairman and the Company Secretary, using a questionnaire-based approach.
The process identified that minor The Board has not appointed a senior independent director, as it improvements to succession planning in the Group would be does not consider this to be appropriate at the present time in beneficial and this is now being addressed.
view of the size of the Board.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with the in respect of legal action against its directors.
non-executive directors without the executives present.
Board Committees Mr Evans, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all have letters of appointment Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on the covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment and Companys website and are available on request from the expected time commitment.
These letters of appointment Company Secretary.
provide for an initial three year appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three months Audit Committee written notice.
The non-executive directors letters of During the year Mr Scobie, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, appointment are available for inspection on request to the Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served as Company Secretary.
members of the Audit Committee.
Mr Scobie initially acted as Chairman of the Committee on an interim basis, pending the In accordance with the revised Combined Code and the appointment of a new non-executive director, but resigned as a Companys Articles of Association, all directors submit themselves member following the appointment of The Rt Hon Lord for re-election every three years.
The papers accompanying the Freeman as Chairman of the Committee on 1 July 2006.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting include a statement from the Committee meets not less than twice a year and operates within Chairman confirming that the performance of each formal written terms of reference.
As referred to above, the terms non-executive director seeking re-election at the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director continues to of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings of demonstrate commitment to their role.
the Committee are attended, at the invitation of the Committee, Meetings Attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 12 meetings 2 meetings 0 meetings 5 meetings K C Scobie 12 12 2 2 - 0 0 D R Evans 11 12 - - - The Rt Hon Lord Freeman 3 4 1 1 - 0 0 I F R Much 12 12 2 2 - 5 5 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss 12 12 2 2 - 5 5 D J Price 12 12 - - - P A Rayner 12 12 - - - The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown in brackets.
P 36 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 by the external auditors, the Chairman, the Finance Director and During the year under review, the Group did not have a representatives from the Group finance function.
The Committee dedicated internal audit function.
Despite this, it is felt that the meets with the auditors on a regular basis without executive financial record keeping in the Group is robust and capable of directors present.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the highlighting significant departures from procedures.
Other areas Committee and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board of risk which might normally be carried out by an internal audit members.
function have been in the main covered by the Board as a whole or by the activities of other committees reporting in to the The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires Board.
The Group will establish an internal audit function from any employee of the Company in order to perform its during 2007. duties, and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that it requires at the Companys expense.
Deloitte & Touche LLP be proposed for re-appointment as The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between The Committee keeps under review the level of non-audit services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee keeps that this does not impair their independence and objectivity.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance Director, also under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual basis, ensures that the Group maintains a sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
During the year, work on considers the need for a dedicated internal audit function.
The corporate finance matters was sourced from the external auditors Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes required only where there was no direct conflict with their role as external auditors and where there were clear efficiencies and value added as the result of such review.
Details of the amounts paid to the During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of external auditors during the year for audit and other services are reference, discharged its responsibilities by: set out in the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 56. reviewing the Groups draft 2005 financial statements and 2006 Nomination Committee interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served the external auditors detailed reports thereon: on the Nomination Committee during the year.
Mr Scobie is Chairman of the Committee but, in accordance with the reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Committees terms of reference, is not permitted to chair policies, and reviewing various accounting matters raised by meetings when the Committee is dealing with the appointment management and the external auditors in the context of of his successor.
As referred to above, the Committees terms of financial disclosures: reference are available on the Companys website.
reviewing the potential impact in the Groups financial With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset directors to the Board, the Committee considers the specific values and International Financial Reporting Standards: knowledge and expertise which would be of benefit to the Groups current operations and future strategy, and provides a reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2005 financial brief to external search agents based upon its conclusions.
The statements and 2006 interim results, including key risks on the search agents put forward a short list of candidates for the accounts, confirmation of auditor independence and the Committee to interview before making its recommendations proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for to the Board.
The Board interviews preferred candidates prior to the audit: making any formal offers of appointment.
These procedures were adopted for the appointment during the year of reviewing the requirement for a dedicated internal audit The Rt Hon Lord Freeman.
Remuneration Committee The Committee also reviewed the arrangements by which The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Norriss all served on the Remuneration Committee during the improprieties in financial reporting or other matters during the year.
Mr Much is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee P 37 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Statement on Corporate Governance - continued met five times during the year.
Mr Scobie was re-appointed on Financial Reporting 3 August 2006 as a member of the Committee, following The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the publication by the Financial Reporting Council of the amended financial statements and accounting records maintained by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, in which it was Company is set out on page 25. deemed permissible for the Chairman to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Further details on the Committee Internal Control and Risk Management and the Companys policy on directors remuneration are The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the included within the Directors Remuneration Report.
Groups systems of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management Executive Committee systems.
The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, which meets monthly.
The other members are the The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Business of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these Development Director, the Managing Director of the Energetics systems, which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs division and the President of the Groups US operations.
The and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, the Executive Committee is responsible for the executive day-to-day systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance running of the Company, submission to the Board of strategic against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the plans and budgets for the Groups operations, and monitoring the Groups assets.
day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups Relations with Shareholders systems of internal control, the Board has taken into consideration The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional the following key features of the Groups risk management shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal systems and control procedures which operated during the year: presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
However, the the Groups business objectives as part of the annual strategic non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to meet with planning process.
Out of this process, each business establishes major shareholders and attend meetings if so requested by major a five year plan and annual budget, which are subject to shareholders.
No such requests were received during the year.
The performance of each business Communication with private investors is achieved largely through against budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis the medium of the interim report and the financial statements.
at both operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of strategic business objectives and the associated risks are The Companys website www.
co. uk provides financial monitored by the Board on an ongoing basis.
and business information on the Group.
All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are The directors are provided with reports and other written attended by at least one main Board director, either in person briefings from the Companys principal shareholders and analysts, or, in the case of the overseas companies, by video conference.
and are regularly informed by the Company Secretary about In the case of the US businesses, formal Board meetings are changes to significant shareholdings.
held quarterly and these are attended by main Board directors and external non-executive directors appointed in the US.
The It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend and US non-executive directors are available to provide guidance make themselves available to take questions from shareholders or and monitor governance in the US businesses throughout address any concerns at the Annual General Meeting.
times of the year, the directors can be contacted via the Companys head office.
Each business is required to comply with the Groups All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at for incurring certain types of expenditure and making the Annual General Meeting.
The number of proxy votes received contractual commitments.
Compliance with the accounting for and against each resolution, together with the number of policy manual is reviewed by both the Audit Committee and abstentions, are indicated after votes have been dealt with on a the full Board.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
P 38 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and Compliance with the Provisions of the disposals, and financing arrangements for the Group.
Treasury Revised Combined Code management, IT strategy, insurance and significant legal matters Throughout the year ended 31 October 2006, the Company has are dealt with centrally from the Group head office, and the been in compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 Board receives regular reports on each of these items.
Reviews of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued of the Groups pensions, insurance and risk management by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, with the arrangements are carried out by external advisors on a following exceptions references to the relevant sections of the regular basis.
revised Combined Code are given in brackets : A dedicated Group Health, Safety and Environment Manager, The non-executive directors did not meet without the supported by a Group Health and Safety Management Chairman present to formally appraise the Chairmans Committee, co-ordinates and controls the activities of each performance during the year, as the Board considers that this is business in relation to health and safety and environmental against the spirit of the concept of a unitary Board A.
1.3. matters, which are a key focus for the Board in view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive is the The Board has not nominated a non-executive director as the Board member nominated with specific responsibility for senior independent director as it does not consider this to be health and safety, and a sub-committee of the main Board also appropriate at the present time in view of the size of the focuses specifically on safety at the Group sites where energetic Board.
This requirement will be kept under review A.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its The Groups Risk Management Committee was reconstituted committees was undertaken during the year but this did not during the year and new terms of reference agreed.
The extend to a formal evaluation of individual directors, which the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, Chairman undertakes informally on a continual basis A.
6.1. the Business Development Director, the Managing Director of the Energetics division and the President of the Groups Mr Scobies appointment as Non-Executive Chairman is not US operations now serve on the Committee, which meets for a specified term: however, he is subject to retirement by quarterly.
The Committee reviews the key risks associated with rotation A.
7.2. the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented.
It Following the unexpected retirement of Mr Peter Molony reports biannually to the Board on the top ten risks from a Group as a non-executive director in July 2005, it was necessary perspective, and monitors the actions being taken to for Mr Scobie to be re-appointed as Chairman of the mitigate these.
Audit Committee on an interim basis.
Mr Scobie therefore initially acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee but The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the resigned on 1 July 2006 following the appointment of Groups systems of internal control and risk management which The Rt Hon Lord Freeman C. 3.1. were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2006, and it confirms that systems of internal control and risk Going Concern management compliant with the revised Combined Code and The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and concern and, after making appropriate enquiries, have formed a have remained in place up to the date of approval of these judgment at the time of approving the financial statements that financial statements.
Notwithstanding this, the Board will there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate continue to take steps to embed internal control and risk resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable management further into the operations of the Group and to deal future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern with any areas of improvement which come to the attention of basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 January 2007.
