Corporate Governance Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 March 2006 Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice whereis shown, the director listed is not a member of the Committee The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions Nomination Audit Remuneration of the Code of Best Practice and the Principles of Good Governance Name Board Committee Committee Committee set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Sir John Ritblat 6 1 SirDerekHiggs 6 1 3 Stephen Hester 6 1 Board effectiveness John Weston Smith 6 The directors listed on pages 54 and 55 constituted the Board Nicholas Ritblat 2 throughout the year, except that Nicholas Ritblat and Lord Burns Michael Cassidy 6 1 retired from the Board on 31 August 2005 and 30 September 2005 Robert Bowden 6 Robert Swannell 6 1 3 respectively.
The Board is responsible for the strategy and effective Lord Burns 3 1 1 control and management of the Group.
There is a written division of Graham Roberts 6 responsibilities at the head of the Company between the Chairman Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith 4 3 3 and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
There is David Michels 6 1 4 3 PatrickVaughan 3 a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board No.
of meetings during the year 6 1 4 3 approval, which includes approval of the annual and interim accounts, the approval of authority levels below the Board and Two meetings held during Board membership to 31 August 2005.
Three meetings held since appointment to Committee on 1 October 2005. material acquisitions, disposals and financing arrangements.
The Three Board, no nomination committee, one audit committee and one remuneration Board delegates authority to the Approvals Committee of the Board, committee meeting held during Board membership to 30 September 2005.
Four meetings held since appointment to Board on 28 July 2005. which consists of the executive directors of the Company, in respect of certain transactions within defined, limited parameters.
The Board The Audit and Remuneration Committees are entirely composed has a regular schedule of meetings together with further meetings as of independent non-executive directors.
Sir Derek Higgs is Deputy required by the ongoing business of the Company.
The executive Chairman: he was also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee directors and senior executives who comprise the Executive until 30 September 2005, when he retired from that post and Committee meet weekly, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith was appointed.
Dr Christopher Gibsonthe ongoing management of the Group.
Smith is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Robert The Chairman of the Board and individual directors meet regularly, Swannell is Chairman of the Audit Committee replacing Lord Burns outside formal Board meetings, as part of each directors continuing who stepped down on 30 September 2005. contribution to delivery of the Companys strategy and superior returns for shareholders.
This process also allows for open two-way Nomination Committee discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and The Nomination Committees responsibilities include making individual directors, both executive and non-executive.
By this means recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments and the Chairman is continuously aware of the views of individual succession planning.
It consists of the seven non-executive directors directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to together with Sir John Ritblat and Stephen Hester.
Sir John Ritblat is Board effectiveness before they can become a risk to the Company.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee, replacing Dr Christopher There is a strong and independent non-executive element on the Gibson-Smith who stepped down on 30 September 2005.
Board as shown by the details of directors on pages 54 and 55.
During the year the Nomination Committee conducted a search, with the assistance of consultants, to recruit two new non-executive BL Board performance evaluation directors to replace Lord Burns and Sir Derek Higgs.
In consequence, In 2005, a formal Board Performance Appraisal process was Lord Turnbull and Kate Swann were appointed to the Board on introduced with each director giving detailed input annually, the 1 April 2006. results of which are considered by the Chairman, Senior Independent The Nomination Committee during the year has also considered, Non-Executive Director and Board as appropriate and relevant inter alia, the constituency of the Boards committees: the renewal of consequential changes made.
non-executive directors letters of appointment: and management The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director discusses the development and succession, and the nomination of Andrew Jones performance of the Chairman with other directors annually, or more and Tim Roberts for appointment to the Board at this years Annual frequently as necessary.
Committees of the Board Remuneration policy and Committee The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Details of the Group remuneration policy are set out in the Committees which operate within defined terms of reference, which Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 66. are made available on the Companys website www.
com, and their minutes are circulated to the Board.
Rotation of directors Under the Articles of Association of the Company, each director retires at the third annual general meeting after the general meeting at which he was last elected.
68 The British Land Company PLC Non-executive directors responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly The Board considers that Sir Derek Higgs, Michael Cassidy, Robert identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors Swannell, David Michels, Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith, Kate Swann and senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have and Lord Turnbull are independent non-executive directors.
In close involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the making this determination the Board has considered whether each Group.
In addition to the main Board of directors, there are operational director is independent in character and judgement and whether boards which are responsible for specific areas of the Groups activities.
there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or These include: could affect, the directors judgement.
The Board believes that it is group management and operations: evident from consideration of the non-executive directorsbiographies management of property assets: detailed on pages 54 and 55 that they are of the integrity and stature management of development activities: and to perform their roles of independent non-executive directors.
The Board has considered Sir Derek Higgs position at Jones Lang LaSalle and noted that i this is not an executive position: The Board and the operational boards consider the risk implications ii Sir Derek declares an interest and is neither involved at Jones Lang of business decisions.
These include matters such as new treasury LaSalle in the decision-making process regarding Jones Lang products and major transactions.
The control environment is LaSalles services to British Land, nor does he participate in any such supported by the various committees of the Board and the discussions at British Land: and iii the fees paid by British Land to operational boards, including the Audit Committee, the Corporate Jones Lang LaSalle have been at all times immaterial in size, Responsibility Committee and the Derivatives Committee.
The way amounting to considerably less than 1% of British Lands turnover.
each risk is managed within the Group is considered at least annually Notwithstanding that Michael Cassidy has served on the Board by the executive directors and the Audit Committee.
The Group for ten years, the Board does not consider that, given his integrity and reassesses these risks on a regular basis to ensure that any risk stature, this affects his independence.
Further, in the interests of arising from changes in the Groups operations or the external achieving a smooth Board transition and given the number of recent environment are identified and appropriately managed.
Board appointments and departures, the Board has asked Michael In order to provide relevant and timely information to the Cassidy to extend his service until 2007 during which calendar year executives with responsibility for managing risks, the Group has the he will retire from the Board.
Accordingly Michael Cassidy is following key information systems which generate reports as follows: proposed for a one year re-election by shareholders.
a management reporting system which includes regular working The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive capital reports and forecasts: directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered operational reporting on property purchases, sales and portfolio office and at the Annual General Meeting.
management: and regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
Internal Control The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound system Monitoring of internal control.
The Board continues to apply the internal control The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code through a continuous reviewed the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee has process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups the Group faces.
The process has been in place throughout the year, processes and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and results of those reviews already completed.
The Head of Internal the Group has been in compliance with the code provisions set out Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee.
During the year, further in Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Internal Audit resources and an Internal Audit Charter were approved.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is Investor Relations designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The directors place considerable importance on maintaining open achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and and clear communication with investors.
The Companys Investor not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations department is dedicated to facilitating communication with The Group applies two fundamental control principles: shareholders.
The Company has an ongoing programme of dialogue a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: and meetings between the executive directors and its shareholders, and where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no the market, management and governance are discussed within the commitments are entered into without competent and proper constraints of the information already known to the market.
In authorisation by more than one approved executive.
addition, the Company undertakes regular roadshows to the US, Scotland and the Netherlands and participates in sectorconferences.
In compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board The directors consider it is important to understand the views of continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of shareholders, and at each scheduled Board meeting the directors internal control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features of receive a written report of the major issues which have been raised the internal control system that operated throughout the period with management.
Meetings are also held between shareholders covered by the accounts are described below: and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and other non-executive directors, and the Company facilitates such meetings Identification and evaluation of commercial risks and on request.
related control objectives During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, which the progress of the Company through results statements and other has identified over 50 individual risks that affect the Group.
The announcements that are released through the London Stock The British Land Company PLC 69 Exchange and other news services.
Company announcements and which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial presentations are made available simultaneously on our website, position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking affording all shareholders full access to material information.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company at irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and any time through a facility on the website.
directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements Additionally there is an opportunity at the Annual General of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the Meeting AGM for individual shareholders to question the Chairman maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Committees.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the The directors are also responsible for the Groups system of separation of resolutions, the attendance of committee chairmen internal controls, which is designed to meet the Groups particular and voting by poll.
The Annual Report & Accounts and Notice of needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
The voting results are announced to the London Stock Auditors and valuers Exchange and are available on the website and on request.
In July The Audit Committee meets with the auditors and valuers to discuss 2005, all AGM resolutions were passed on a poll and were approved with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The Committee is by substantial majorities in excess of 97% in each case.
specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and Going concern objectivity of the auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give of the audit.
rise to significant financial exposure the directors are satisfied that With respect to other services provided by the auditors the no material or significant exposures exist, other than as reflected in following framework is in place: these financial statements, and that the Group has adequate Audit related services the auditors are one of a number of firms resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
providing audit-related services, which include formal reporting For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and preparing the accounts.
various other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisition and disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of Statement of directors responsibilities their office or are best placed to do so, the auditors are selected.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and In other circumstances the selection depends on which firm is the financial statements.
best suited: The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Tax advisory the auditors are one of a number of firms that Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards provide tax advisory services, including the preparation and IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial submission of tax returns.
The selection depends on who is best statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and suited in the circumstances: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
General consulting the auditors do not provide general International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial consultancy services except in rare circumstances, and then only statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial after consideration that they are best placed to provide the position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the service and that their independence and objectivity would not be faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events compromised.
and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out on page 86. International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the As previously announced, Knight Frank were appointed during Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all the year as principal valuers to the Group, in succession to Atisreal.
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance Knight Frank reported for the first time on the 30 September 2005 with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: The Board introduced quarterly financial reporting including properly select and apply accounting policies: valuations with effect from December 2005 so as to provide present information, including accounting policies, in a manner shareholders with a more regular update on its portfolio performance.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved information: and by the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific changing requirements and best practice.
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Sigmund Freud 18561939 1926, by Ferdinand Schmutzer In the case of UK GAAP Company accounts, the directors are also required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which In giving us concepts such as the id, the ego and the super-ego, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of Freud convinced the world that we are all neurotic and seething with repressed sexual energy.
He described himself not as a scientist but as an adventurer, the profit and loss of the Company for that period and to make further confusing those struggling to understand the difference between judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
While many of todays practitioners disagree with directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records his ideas, his findings especially regarding the nature of mental illness and the definition of normal have fuelled many a dinner-party conversation and legitimised the practice of self-obsession.
70 The British Land Company PLC Civilization began the first time an angry person cast a word instead of a rock.
Sigmund Freud The British Land Company PLC 71
