Corporate governance report 46 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 change in circumstances.
An Executive Directors Committee, Introduction comprising the six executives, meets on a weekly basis and deals The Board of Directors is accountable to the Companys with all major decisions of the Group not requiring full Board shareholders for the management and control of the Companys approval or authorisation by other Board committees.
The activities and is committed to high standards of corporate Executive Directors Committee is quorate with four executive governance.
This report and the directors remuneration report set directors in attendance: if decisions are not unanimous the matter out on pages 40 to 45 describe how the Company complies with is referred to the Board for approval.
Minutes from the Executive the provisions of the July 2003 Financial Reporting Council Directors Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, consist solely Statement of compliance of non-executive directors and meet at least twice a year.
During The Company has complied throughout the year ended June 2006 to September 2006, the Remuneration and Audit 30 December 2006, except where otherwise explained, with the Committees comprised only two members following the retirement provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued of David Cherry, and the Company was not compliant with the by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003. requirements of Section B.
2.1 of the Code during this period.
The Company also recognises that the Nomination Committee does not Application of the principles comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors as The Board of Directors required by Section A.
4.1 of the Code, and the Company is taking Details of the directors are set out on page 37.
The Company is steps to appoint another independent non-executive director.
controlled through the Board of Directors which comprises the Chairman, six executive and five non-executive directors.
The Board The Board schedules quarterly meetings each year, as a minimum, recognises that its current balance does not comply with the and arranges further meetings as the business requires.
For each requirements of the Code in respect of Section A.
3.2 which requires quarterly Board meeting, each member receives up-to-date at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise financial and commercial information in respect of the divisions independent non-executive directors.
prior to each meeting, in particular, management accounts budgets and forecasts, details of acquisitions and disposals and The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the relevant appraisals prior Board approval being required for large current Board composition provides an appropriate balance transactions and cash flow forecasts and details of funding of power and authority within the Company.
Committee will however continue to review this position.
All the Companys non-executive directors act independently of All members of the Board are subject to the re-election provisions management and the Board considers that all the non-executive in the Articles which require them to offer themselves for directors are independent.
The terms and conditions of re-election at least once every three years and at the first AGM after appointment of non-executive directors are available for appointment, if appointed after the last AGM.
Details of those inspection at the Companys registered office.
directors offering themselves for re-appointment are set out in the directors report on page 38.
P Stobart continued to serve as the Senior Independent Director as required by the Combined Code for the year ended A performance evaluation of the Board and the committees is 30 December 2006. conducted each year with each director giving detailed input.
The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, with the The Company has well established differentiation between the roles non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The of Chairman and Chief Executive.
However, it recognises that it is non-executive directors meet annually without the Chairman in order not in compliance with Section A.
2.1 of the Code, which requires it to appraise his performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior to have written terms of reference approved by the Board for each Independent Director.
The Chairman evaluates the performance of role, and the Company is taking steps to put these in place.
the remaining directors and the results of the appraisals are analysed and summarised by the Senior Independent Director and discussed In the Companys view, the breadth of experience and knowledge of with the Chairman.
Subsequently, the results are discussed by the the Chairman and the non-executive directors detachment from Board and relevant consequential changes are made.
the day-to-day issues within the Company provide a sufficiently strong and experienced balance with the executive members of the Induction training is given to all new directors appointed in the Board.
The breadth of experience attributed to the non-executive Company and consists of an introduction to the Board, onsite visits directors, allied to the management information provided by the to properties managed by the Group, introduction to the divisional Company, enables them to assess and advise the full Board on the teams, an induction pack and access to independent advisers.
The major risks faced by the Company.
In accordance with the ongoing training requirements of the directors are reviewed on a Combined Code the Company considers all its non-executive regular basis and undertaken individually, as necessary, although it directors are independent.
is recognised that all members of the Board experience continuous The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its professional development from working together.
This is achieved decision and a schedule of matters delegated to committees, both by virtue of the dynamic and diverse mix of the Board members, of which are reviewed at least annually.
The Board reserves approval their sharing of knowledge and experiences gained from a range of for all significant or strategic decisions including major acquisitions, commercial backgrounds, and the complement of their personal disposals and financing transactions.
The directors are entitled to attributes to the Board.
take independent professional advice as and when necessary.
Nomination Committee The responsibilities, which the Board has delegated, are given to The committee comprises T Chandos Chairman, P Stobart, committees that operate within specified terms of reference and M Barber and H Mautner.
authority limits, which are reviewed annually or in response to a 47 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and There were three Responsible Business Committee meetings during recommend to the Board suitable candidates for both executive the year.
and non-executive appointments to the Board.
On an annual basis the Nomination Committee also considers succession planning for Responsible Business Committee meetings Attendance the Board following the yearly performance evaluation process.
The A Coppin 3 Board is given an opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior X Pullen 3 to any formal decision.
The terms of reference of the Nomination W Sunnucks 3 A Lewis-Pratt 2 Committee are available for inspection on the Companys website.
During the year, with the help of outside consultants, the committee recommended two new non-executive directors, Directors remuneration M Wolstenholme and P Newton.
Both individuals met with the The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board prior to being appointed.
Board, within existing terms of reference, on remuneration policy and determines, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration Board and committee meetings packages for each executive director.
The terms of reference of the The number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration Committee are available for inspection on the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and individual Companys website.
attendance by directors, is set out below: A proportion of all executive directors remuneration consists of There were seven full Board meetings during the year of which cash bonuses linked to corporate and individual performance four were scheduled meetings and three were ad hoc meetings.
achievements, the levels of which are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
All the executive directors are eligible to participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Capital Scheduled Ad hoc Total Appreciation Plan CAP which were both established on 18 Board meetings attendance meetings meetings attendance December 2002.
The LTIP and CAP schemes were renewed in 2005 T Chandos 437 for a further three years following shareholder consultation and M Barber 437 approval.
The fees of the non-executive directors are reviewed by D Cherry Retired 5 June 2006 112 X Pullen 437 the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of remuneration W Sunnucks 437 policy and details of each directors remuneration are set out in the H Mautner 415 K Ford 437 directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 45.
PY Gerbeau 437 P Stobart 437 Shareholder relations A Lewis-Pratt 437 A Coppin 437 The Company has always encouraged regular dialogue with its P Newton Appointed 28 July 2006 112 institutional shareholders and private investors at the AGM, and M Wolstenholme Appointed 17 August 2006 213 through corporate functions and property visits.
In addition, following the announcement of preliminary and interim results, There were five Audit Committee meetings during the year.
and throughout the year, as requested, the Company holds update meetings with institutional shareholders.
All the directors are accessible to all shareholders, and queries received verbally or in Audit Committee meetings Attendance writing are immediately addressed.
The directors are introduced to D Cherry Retired 5 June 2006 2 shareholders at the AGM each year and the non-executive directors P Stobart 5 and committee chairmen are clearly identified.
A Coppin 5 M Wolstenholme Appointed 18 September 2006 2 Announcements are made to the London Stock Exchange and the business media concerning business developments to provide wider dissemination of information.
In particular, monthly announcements There were three Remuneration Committee meetings during of fund unit valuations provide a regular update on the progress of the year.
Registered shareholders are sent copies of both the annual report and accounts and the interim report.
Remuneration Committee meetings Attendance P Stobart 3 Accountability and audit D Cherry Retired 5 June 2006 2 Financial reporting H Mautner Retired 18 September 2006 2 M Wolstenholme Appointed 18 September 2006 1 The Companys annual report and accounts includes detailed P Newton Appointed 18 September 2006 0 reviews of the activities of each division, together with a detailed review of their financial results and financing position.
In this way, and as required by the Combined Code, the Board seeks to present There were three Nomination Committee meetings during the year.
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Nomination Committee meetings Attendance Internal control T Chandos 3 The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal P Stobart 3 control to safeguard shareholders investment and for reviewing its M Barber 3 H Mautner appointed 18 September 2006 0 effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There are inherent limitations in any control system and, accordingly, even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and Corporate governance report 48 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
held early enough to allow the Committee members to have real input into the presentation of the accounts.
The Chairman of the In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Audit Committee reports back to the Board on the key conclusions.
internal control, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Company.
The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial This process has been in place from the start of the 2006 financial year as follows: year, to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Each year the Board conducts a review of the effectiveness of the current Financial reporting: during the year the Committee reviewed the system of internal control.
There is an internal control matrix in interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee place for each division which is reviewed and updated following received a report from the external auditors setting out meetings with each divisional management team.
accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports were based on a full audit annual report The risks for each of the divisions in the Group are classified into and a high level review interim report respectively.
The financial, administrative and compliance risks, property risks and Committee also advised the Board on disclosure, in particular, operational risks.
The key features of the Companys system of the disclosure requirements of IFRS.
internal control are as follows: Internal Controls and Risk Management: the Audit Committee meets with the external auditors and deals with any significant Control documents for each area of risk which identify the key internal control matter.
In the year under review the Committee risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they met with the external auditors on five occasions.
The Audit do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to Committee received a paper, prepared by management, on the the desired level.
internal controls of the Company.
Clearly defined organisational responsibilities and authority Internal Audit: during the year the Group has taken the first limits throughout the Group.
The day-to-day involvement of the steps towards establishing an internal audit function.
It has executive directors in the running of the business ensures that employed IRS, an experienced firm of risk surveyors, to review these responsibilities and limits are adhered to.
cash and security controls at selected locations.
This falls short Financial reporting to the Board including regular reports from of a full internal audit function as the Company believes that a the Fund Manager of The Mall, The Junction and X-Leisure Funds need for such a function does not currently exist.
The Audit and for the Group as a whole, including the preparation of Committee is reviewing the next step towards establishing a full budgets and forecasts, cash management, variance analysis, internal audit function, but recognises that this should be property, taxation and treasury reports and a report on financing.
commensurate with the size and complexity of the group.
Steps are continuously being taken to embed internal control and Going concern risk management further into the operations of the business and to In compliance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and Authority the directors can report that, based on the Groups the Boards attention.
budgets and financial projections, they have satisfied themselves that the business is a going concern.
The Board has a reasonable Audit Committee expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive directors, and facilities to continue in operational existence for the P Stobart Chairman, A Coppin, M Wolstenholme Appointed 18 foreseeable future and therefore the accounts are prepared on a September 2006 and D Cherry Retired 5 June 2006. going concern basis.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available for F Desai inspection on the Companys website.
The role of the Audit Company Secretary Committee is to maintain a relationship with the Groups external 20 April 2007 auditors and to review, in depth, the Companys financial statements, internal financial control and risk management systems and circulars to shareholders in order to monitor financial integrity within the Group.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the cost-effectiveness and the volume of non-audit services provided to the Group.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups external auditors undertaking non-audit work, and details of fees paid to the Groups external auditors are detailed on page 63 in note 5 to the accounts.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving audit firms carried out in a manner that affords value for money.
The Companys policy is that the audit firm must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board for the re-appointment of the Groups external auditors.
In order to maintain independence the audit partner of the Groups external auditors is subject to rotation at regular intervals.
The Audit Committee normally meets five times a year: there is one meeting to approve the audit plan and two for each of the interim and final announcements.
The first of the pre-announcement meetings is
