Report of the audit committee Membership Mr Neathercoat was chairman of the committee throughout the year.
On 23rd May 2006, Mr Corbyn joined the committee when Mr Yeatman stood down as a director of the company.
Following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell joined the committee.
All members are considered independent by the company having no day-to-day involvement with the company.
Mr Neathercoat is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and considered to have appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee has access to further financial expertise at the companys expense, if required.
Roles and responsibilities The terms of reference for the committee are available on the companys website.
Meetings The committee meets at least three times a year to discharge its responsibilities.
Meetings are attended by the groups external auditor and the groups finance director when invited.
Work of the committee During the year, the committee has carried out the following: Reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies used, assumptions adopted and estimates made.
Held meetings with the groups external valuers.
Reviewed the scope of the annual audit and the level of associated fees.
Considered the adequacy of the auditors statement of independence and monitored the operation of the groups policy regarding the use of the external auditor for non-audit work which helps to protect the auditors independence and objectivity.
A major source of non-audit work each year for the groups auditor is tax compliance work.
The committee has considered this arrangement and is of the opinion that this is an efficient arrangement that does not compromise the auditors independence.
In the current year, the auditor also reviewed and reported on the groups working capital forecast in connection with the merger with London Merchant Securities plc.
To preserve their independence, the auditor took the following measures: the assignment was conducted by staff from the rms corporate finance department: any involvement by audit staff was in connection with matters of fact, not judgement: and the arrangements were reviewed and approved by the rms ethics partner.
Having considered these measures and also noted that the fee income was neither material to BDO Stoy Hayward LLP nor for the credit of the current audit partner, the committee concluded that the auditors independence was adequately safeguarded.
Recommended the re-appointment of the groups external auditor after due consideration of the conduct of the audit and the matters raised in the management letter.
S. J. Neathercoat Chairman of the audit committee 20th March 2007 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 63
