Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 39 Corporate governance Statement by the directors on compliance performance and implementation of the strategy by the with the provisions of the Combined Code executive directors, ensuring adequate funding, examining A summary of the system of governance adopted by the major potential acquisitions and disposals, formulating policy on Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 March key issues and reporting to shareholders.
At least once a year it 2006, the Company complied with the Code provisions set out reviews the nature and magnitude of matters reserved for its in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate governance decision.
After each Board meeting the Chairman and the other issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003. non-executives meet without the executive directors, and at least three times a year the non-executives meet without the The Board of directors Chairman.
In addition, individual directors meet regularly The Board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors outside the formal Board meetings as part of each directors and four non-executive directors.
The Chairman is responsible contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy and review for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive for of operations.
The executive directors also meet weekly, with the the day-to-day management of the Company, with the division Head of Development, as the Executive Committee, chaired by of responsibilities approved by the Board.
the Chief Executive, to deal with the on-going management of the Group with copies of the minutes of these meetings The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management distributed to the Chairman and non-executive directors.
and control of the Groups activities and good corporate governance.
The Board meets at least six times a year, Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year objectively setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing was as follows: Board Board Nomination Remuneration Audit scheduled other Committee Committee Committee 6 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 7 meetings 6 meetings Chairman Richard Peskin 6 5 3 Executive directors Toby Courtauld 6 5 Robert Noel 6 5 1 John Whiteley 2 1 2 Timon Drakesmith 42 Non-executive directors Kathleen ODonovan 6 5 3 7 6 3 John Edgcumbe 65 27 4 Anthony Graham 2 1 2 Charles Irby 6 5 7 6 5 Philip Rose 6 4 4 1 Resigned on 31 July 2005.
3 Stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 23 March 2006.
5 Appointed to the Board on 11 April 2005, to the Audit Committee on 8 July 2005 and Nomination Committee on 23 March 2006.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its page 34.
Richard Peskin, who was Managing Director until own performance and that of its Committees and individual March 2000, is non-executive Chairman of the Board, directors.
The performance evaluation consists of each director, Toby Courtauld is Chief Executive and Kathleen ODonovan is including the Chairman, completing a questionnaire and then the Senior Independent Director.
The Board is of the opinion having one-to-one interviews with Kathleen ODonovan as that independence is a matter of judgement and conscience the Senior Independent Director and Desna Martin as the and that the non-executive directors, who, excluding the Company Secretary: Kathleen ODonovan is interviewed by Chairman, represent over half the Board, are independent.
Charles Irby as Head of the Remuneration Committee and the non-executive directors together meet to consider the To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive Chairmans performance.
The results of the evaluation are appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers discussed by the Board.
It was concluded that the Board distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All directors have and its Committees continued to operate effectively with access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, appropriate procedures put in place for minor areas identified who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate for improvement, for example, increased exposure of key governance.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take senior management to the Board and appraisal and independent professional advice and are offered formal training reporting processes.
in specific areas relevant to either their speciality or Committee roles or to the Board as a whole.
On appointment, new non-executive directors, who are expected to provide a time commitment to the Company of at The Company maintains directors and officers liability least 24 days a year, are provided with a detailed induction insurance and, from 31 March 2006, pension trustee liability programme on the Companys operations, including social, insurance, both of which are reviewed annually.
ethical and environmental matters, and meet with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
40 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Audit Committee Committees which deal with specific aspects of the Groups The Audit Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan affairs, each of which has written terms of reference which are Chairman, Charles Irby and Phillip Rose.
Miss ODonovan regularly reviewed and which deal with their authorities and is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of EMI plc and a duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on member of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc.
The Audit written request and on the Companys website.
Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors and meetings are also attended by certain Nomination Committee senior executives, by invitation.
The Committee is responsible The Nomination Committee currently comprises Kathleen for reviewing, and reporting to the Board on, a range of ODonovan Chairman, Phillip Rose and Richard Peskin.
matters including: It undertakes an annual review of succession planning for n the interim and annual financial statements, and any other senior executives and ensures that the membership and statements considered to be price-sensitive in nature: composition of the Board, including the balance of the skills, n continue to be appropriate.
In making recommendations to the meetings with the Company auditors and property valuers: Board, it specifically considers the expected time commitment n monitoring developments in accounting and reporting of the proposed non-executive and other commitments they requirements and, in particular, the Companys already have.
Agreement of the Chairman of the Company is implementation of changes arising from the adoption of also required before a non-executive director may accept any International Financial Reporting Standards for the additional commitments which could affect the time available Companys reporting period commencing 1 April 2005: to devote to the Company.
n the review of the Companys internal control and risk Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms management systems: and but are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least n the Companys whistleblowing policy.
Under the Articles of Association at least a third of the Board, not including directors appointed during The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment the year, must retire by rotation from the Board each year.
of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and As Mr Edgcumbe will have been on the Board for more than non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence six years, he will, if re-elected, retire in 2007 when a suitable and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results replacement has been found.
of the audit with the external auditors.
The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and other services, which Following a selection process involving external recruitment the Audit Committee believe they are best placed to undertake consultants, Blackwood Group, Phillip Rose was appointed a due to their position as auditors.
The only other services non-executive director on 11 April 2005.
Mr Rose, who was provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP are limited tax services, previously Head of Real Estate for ABN Amro, Chief Operating awarded on the basis of efficiencies achieved by performing Officer of TrizecHahn Europe and Managing Director of Lend the audit: all other requirements for specialist property tax Lease Global Investments plc is Chief Executive of Alpha consulting are put out to tender.
Due to its size and structure, Real Capital and a non-executive director of Hermes Property the Group does not have an internal audit function, a matter Unit Trust.
which is kept under review by the Committee.
John Whiteley, who had been Finance Director for ten years Internal controls and who had played a significant role in the restructuring of The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups the business, left the Company on 31 July 2005.
After a system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness at selection process using external recruitment consultants least annually.
Such a system can only provide reasonable and Heidrick & Struggles and in consultation with Toby Courtauld not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as Chief Executive, Timon Drakesmith was appointed as as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Finance Director on 12 September 2005.
Mr Drakesmith had failure to achieve business objectives.
previously been Group Director of Financial Operations at Novar plc after 13 years of investment banking experience, There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, most recently as a managing director at Credit Suisse evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: First Boston.
these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Remuneration Committee Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal The Remuneration Committee, which comprises Charles Irby Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Chairman, John Edgcumbe and Kathleen ODonovan, has Key features of the system of internal control include: responsibility for determining the remuneration, bonuses, n contract terms and other benefits in respect of the executive a defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board: directors, and the remuneration of the Chairman.
It also n the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly considers and establishes Company policy on remuneration, defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: with access to professional advice outside the Company, as n required.
Its role is described further in the Directors the close involvement of the executive directors in all aspects remuneration report on pages 42 to 46. of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with senior management to review all operational aspects of the business and risk management systems: and n a comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance 41 The Audit Committee carries out a twice yearly review of The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an significant business risks, formally considering the scope and opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is reporting to the Board.
This involves the identification of risks available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders specific to the areas of property and financial markets which to meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, impact on its objectives, together with the controls and Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, 6 July 2006 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 72 social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the to 73.
Details of the number of proxy votes for, against and regulatory environment.
withheld for each resolution will be disclosed at the meeting.
Group strategy and progress on developments is updated and Going concern reviewed at each Board meeting.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Relations with shareholders foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the Communications with shareholders are given a high priority going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders and fund managers.
The executive directors are By order of the Board the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties and independent feedback on presentations by the executive directors to all major shareholders is provided to the non-executive directors on a regular basis.
Presentations to analysts and the accompanying script are simultaneously posted on the Companys website.
As Chairman and Senior Independent director, respectively, Richard Peskin Desna Martin and Kathleen ODonovan are each available, as appropriate, Secretary as a contact for shareholders.
