Corporate governance the cOmbined cOde resOurces The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate All Directors have access to independent professional advice and to governance within the Company.
Throughout the year ended the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to 31 December 2006 the Company has complied with section 1 the Board for advice on corporate governance matters and for ensuring of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, save that it has that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the taken advantage of the amendments to the Code issued by the Board operate within applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating the programme of director induction and professional development and Board performance evaluation.
The appointment and removal of the bOard OF directOrs Company Secretary is a matter requiring approval of the Board.
The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities, which include a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance, The Board currently consists of the Chairman, six Executive Directors which is reviewed annually.
The Companys Directors and officers are and five Non-Executive Directors.
Following the forthcoming adequately insured in line with the guidelines produced by the Institute retirements of John Barton and John Bywater and the appointment of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
In accordance with the of Jacques Espinasse, the Board will comprise the Chairman, five Companys Articles of Association, Directors are required to submit Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets not themselves for election at the first opportunity after their appointment less than ten times during the year.
Non-Executive Directors are and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
encouraged to communicate directly with Executive Directors between formal Board meetings and, in addition to these regular Board traininG and develOpment meetings, the Board holds an annual strategy meeting at which All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and it considers the future direction of the Company.
All Directors are changing commercial risks with the assistance of the Companys legal expected to attend all meetings of the Board, and of those Committees advisers and auditors where appropriate.
During the year under on which they serve, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys review, this has included consideration of Directors responsibilities, affairs to enable them to properly fulfil their duties as Directors.
the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Rules, the market abuse regime, However, on occasion, it may be necessary to convene or rearrange the Transparency Directive and the Companies Act 2006.
The meetings at short notice which may preclude directors from attending.
professional development requirements of Executive Directors are All Directors were present at all meetings of the Board held during the identified and progressed as part of each individuals annual appraisal.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are clearly defined undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas they and documented.
consider to be appropriate for their own professional development The Board has ultimate responsibility for Hammersons overall and a record of this is maintained.
Each year, the programme of Board management and its business and financial strategy and there is meetings is tailored to enable some Board meetings to be held at the a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, including: Companys properties.
During 2006, the Board made visits to Bicester, Bristol, Gloucester and Paris.
strategy: acquisition and divestment policy: bOard eFFectiveness approval of major capital expenditure projects: The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the success of the Company and they therefore monitor and evaluate their risk management: own performance and the contribution made by individuals.
An internal control: external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness and procedures, and those of its Committees, was undertaken in 2006 by ICSA Corporate treasury and the raising of finance: Services Limited.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its human resources: and Committees were operating effectively.
The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, with Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors present.
and Nomination Committees and documented in their terms of reference.
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually without the Chairman The procedures and accountability for these matters are set out in in order to appraise his performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Companys operations and control manuals.
A schedule of routine the Senior Independent Director.
matters to be addressed by the Board and its Committees is agreed on an annual basis and information is supplied to the Board and nOn-executive directOrs its Committees in a manner that enables them to fulfil their The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom responsibilities.
Presentations on business and operational issues is independent from management and has no material commercial or are made regularly to the Board by senior management.
other connection with the Company, are able to exercise independent judgement.
Their experience, gained from varied commercial backgrounds, enables them to make a valuable contribution to the Company.
The Chairman holds other positions which are set out on page 12.
The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not adversely affect his commitment as the Companys Chairman.
52 52 Annual R Annual Report 2006 eport 2006 There is an induction programme in place which is tailored to the standinG cOmmittees OF the bOard specific requirements of newly appointed Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each On their appointment, Non-Executive Directors meet with the of which has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed Chairman and the Chief Executive and are provided with briefings and which deal clearly with their authorities and duties.
A formal on their responsibilities as Directors and on the Companys business, review is undertaken annually.
Copies of these terms of reference are finances, risks, strategy, procedures and the markets in which the available on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees is Company operates.
Non-Executive Directors also meet with comprised of Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
representatives from the Companys auditors and advisers and with members of senior management who provide further information on the audit cOmmittee the Companys operations including visits to the Companys properties.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that management has systems and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of financial relatiOns With sharehOlders information.
The Committee maintains an appropriate relationship with The Company has an active dialogue with its shareholders through the Groups external auditors and reviews the effectiveness, objectivity a programme of investor meetings including formal presentations of and independence of the external auditors and considers both the the full year and interim results.
Non-Executive Directors are available scope of their work and the fees paid to them for audit and non-audit to attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders and may services.
The Committee reviews the Companys internal audit attend meetings between shareholders and management if desired.
arrangements, internal financial controls and the audit process.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders.
The Committee has access to employees and all documentation This process and reporting enables the Directors to obtain the required and information it may require.
Members of the Committee may, understanding of the views of shareholders.
John Barton is the Senior in pursuit of their duties, take independent professional advice Independent Director as defined in the Code and is available to on any matter at the Companys expense.
shareholders if the normal channels of contact are inappropriate for whatever reason.
In this role he would deputise for the Chairman Committee Membership in his absence and is available to advise and counsel particularly The Committee currently comprises: Non-Executive, but also Executive, colleagues.
He is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Following John Bartons Name Date of appointment retirement on 3 May 2007, John Clare, who is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will become the Senior John Hirst Chairman 6 May 2004 Independent Director.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the John Clare 26 February 1999 Companys Annual General Meeting and meet the Directors informally David Edmonds 8 May 2003 after the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in resolutions is Jacques Espinasse will become a member of the Committee on announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the 1 May 2007.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Its terms of reference external appOintments are set by the Board and are modelled closely on those recommended Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions in by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The other companies, subject to the approval of the Board, to broaden their Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
During the year, Simon Melliss and John Bywater held the following external appointments in respect of which they retain the fees John Hirst, the Chairman of the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant payable recognising the personal commitment and expertise required and the Board is satisfied that he has the required recent and relevant for such positions.
All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
Simon Melliss is a member of the Committee of Management of Hermes Property Unit Trust for which he received a fee of 20,000 in 2006.
He was also a non-executive director of Associated British Meetings Ports Holdings PLC for which he received a fee of 35,000 p. a. until The Committee meets at least four times each year.
During 2006 his resignation in August 2006. it met on four occasions and all members of the Committee attended all meetings.
John Bywater is a non-executive director of Workspace Group plc for which he received a fee of 33,000 in 2006 and, until 31 December The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance 2006, was a non-executive director of Land Management Limited for Director, and other senior finance management together with senior which he received a fee of 10,000 p. a.
Since the year end he has been representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend all appointed a non-executive director of West Bromwich Building Society meetings.
Other Executive Directors and senior management are and British Waterways Board for which he receives fees of 35,000 invited to present such reports as required by the Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
The Committee meets with the external auditors in the absence of management at least once each year.
Annual Report 2006 53 [Section 06] Corporate governance continued Review of the Year The Committee met five times during 2006 and all members of the In order to fulfil its duties as defined in its terms of reference, Committee attended all meetings which they were eligible to attend, the Audit Committee receives presentations and reviews reports with the exception of Tony Watson who was unable to attend one from the groups senior management, consulting as necessary meeting.
It reviews the terms and conditions of employment of the with the external auditors.
Executive Directors and senior management.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is given on pages 60 to 67.
The Chief During the year, the Committee reviewed the draft interim and annual Executive other than in respect of his own position is invited to reports and associated interim and preliminary year-end results attend the meetings.
announcements prior to their approval by the Board.
These reviews considered the application of the Companys accounting nOminatiOn cOmmittee policies and practices and any changes to them, major judgemental The Nomination Committee comprises John Nelson Chairman, areas, significant adjustments resulting from the audit and going John Barton and John Clare.
Following John Bartons retirement concern assumptions.
The reviews also included consideration of the on 3 May 2007, Tony Watson will become a member of the Committee.
groups compliance with statutory tax obligations, compliance with All members of the Committee were present on each of the three accounting standards and with regulatory requirements, the statement occasions on which the Committee met in 2006.
The Committee on internal control, property valuations and clarity of disclosure.
undertakes an annual review of succession planning and ensures that The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, continues to be environment and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
This review includes consideration of the independence To fulfil these duties, the Committee reviewed: of Non-Executive Directors and of the balance of skills and knowledge required of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
the external auditors management letters: During the year, on the recommendation of the Committee, the internal audit reports, including recommendations arising from appointment of David Atkins as an Executive Director with effect from them and the review of progress in implementing previous 1 January 2007 was approved by the Board.
This followed a thorough recommendations: and review of internal and external candidates with the assistance of external recruitment consultants.
Following a review of the composition reports on the systems of internal controls and the risk management of the Board and consideration of potential candidates, the Committee framework.
recommended the appointment of Jacques Espinasse as a Non-Executive The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Director with effect from 1 May 2007.
As part of this review, the implementation and monitoring of the groups policy on external audit Committee recommended that John Clare should be appointed as in which is set out the categories of non-audit services which the the Senior Independent Director and that Jacques Espinasse and external auditors will, and will not, be allowed to provide to the group.
Tony Watson should be appointed members of the Audit and To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external auditors, the Nomination Committees respectively.
Committee reviewed: the scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement Other cOmmittees letter for the forthcoming year: In addition to the principal committees referred to above, the Board the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: has established committees to deal with share plan administration, compliance with the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Rules and the external auditors fee proposal: the administrative arrangements required for financing.
a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: external auditOrs the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors: The Companys external auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The audit partner responsible for the Companys audit matters is changed every The Committee has recommended to the Board that the external five years in accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the auditors should be reappointed.
In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee takes into remuneratiOn cOmmittee account the safeguards operating within Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Under The Remuneration Committee comprises John Barton Chairman, the Company policy governing the provision of non-audit services by John Clare, John Nelson and Tony Watson.
Tony Watson was appointed the external auditors, they may not provide a service which places to the Committee on 1 February 2006 and John Nelson was appointed them in a position where they may be required to audit their own work.
to the Committee on 21 July 2006 following a revision to the Combined Code permitting company chairmen to be members of remuneration committees.
Following John Bartons retirement on 3 May 2007, John Clare will become Chairman of the Committee.
54 Annual Report 2006 Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on the work The group has established, and the Board regularly reviews, a risk undertaken and are not success related.
Regard is had to the nature of management framework and procedures necessary to enable the and remuneration received for other services provided by Deloitte & Directors to report on internal controls in compliance with the Code.
Touche LLP to the Company and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from The risk management procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable management of the key risks to the group and include plans for the them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the continuance of the Companys business in the event of unforeseen audit.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2006, the auditors interruption.
The Board has allocated responsibility for the remuneration comprised 590,400 for audit work and 112,550 for management of each key risk to Executive Directors and senior other work.
executives within the group who report on these risks to the Board.
Any recommendations arising from such reports and reviews are The Audit Committee has reviewed the briefing paper on effective implemented under the supervision of the Board.
communication between audit committees and external auditors issued in September 2002 by the Auditing Practices Board and, having The Company conducts internal audit activities through a programme considered the recommendations of the briefing paper with the external of reviews principally undertaken by BDO Stoy Hayward, but also on auditors, has concluded that the relationship between the Audit occasion by Company employees.
The reviews are overseen and coCommittee and Deloitte & Touche LLP is in accordance with the ordinated by an Internal Controls and Risk Management Committee.
The Committee comprises executives from the finance and operational parts of the business, is chaired by the Group Finance Director, and is intended to ensure that internal control is integrated into Hammersons trustees OF the pensiOn scheme daily operations.
The Audit Committee has reviewed these The Companys principal pension scheme, The Hammerson Group arrangements and is satisfied that they provide an appropriate Management Limited Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, is overview of the Companys internal control procedures.
administered by two corporate trustees.
One is an independent trustee.
The other is a subsidiary of the Company which has five directors.
The other key elements of the groups system of internal control The Chairman of this subsidiary is David Edmonds, one of the are as follows: Companys Non-Executive Directors.
Graham Pimlott, a former regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee whose Non-Executive Director, is also a director of this subsidiary and overall responsibilities are set out above: the remaining directors are employees, but not directors, of the a management structure that is designed to enable effective decision Company.
The Schemes funds are invested and managed making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The monthly meetings of the Executive Directors and of the This Scheme was closed to new entrants on 31 December 2002 management boards in the UK and France are an important following which a Group Personal Pension Plan was established part of this structure: for new employees.
the maintenance of operational control manuals setting out a control framework for management to operate within and containing ethical behaviOur guidance and procedures for the groups operations: and All employees are required to follow the Companys Code of Conduct the measurement of the groups financial performance on a regular which is designed to ensure that the Company complies with all laws basis against budgets and long-term financial plans.
and regulations, acts fairly in its dealings with third parties, maintains integrity in financial reporting, treats employees fairly and encourages The Company has whistleblowing procedures under which staff may them to undergo training and development and operates a control report any suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
framework that includes environmental and health and safety policies.
The Company subscribes to the independent charity, Public Concern at Work, so that staff may have free access to their helpline.
internal cOntrOl The system of internal control and the effectiveness thereof have The Board has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of been reviewed by the Board for the year under review and during the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is period up to the date of this report and the process accords with the designed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition, Turnbull guidance.
ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, provide reliable financial information and ensure compliance with relevant legislation By Order of the Board and regulations.
There is a regular review process throughout the year of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, although any such system can only provide reasonable and not absolute Stuart Haydon assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system is Secretary designed to manage the achievement of business objectives.
