85 Corporate Governance Introduction to support the Companys strategy, further activities.
He was also responsible for ensuring The Board is responsible for providing leadership details of which are on page 36. effective communication with shareholders and for the Group and for ensuring that the right Progress reporting at Board meetings a making sure that all Board members were aware strategy and controls are in place in order to detailed monthly Board report was reviewed of the views of major investors.
deliver value not only to shareholders but also and the heads of business units provided an to a wider community of individuals and update on progress within their areas of Francis Salway, as Group Chief Executive, was organisations which benefit from the Groups responsibility.
In addition, the interim and responsible for all aspects of the operation and activities.
Land Securities is committed to high final results, together with a comparison of management of the Group and its business.
His standards of Corporate Governance and investment portfolio performance to IPD on role included developing, for Board approval, an supports the Combined Code on Corporate a six-monthly basis, were reviewed in detail.
appropriate business strategy and ensuring that Governance the Code published in July 2003.
Compliance and external relationships at the agreed strategy was implemented in a Further details of how Land Securities complies least annually the Board reviewed investor timely and effective manner.
with the Code can be found in the Corporate relations, HR policy, corporate governance, Governance section of the Companys website, health and safety with quarterly updates, There existed a strong non-executive element together with the terms of reference of the environmental performance, Board on the Board which currently consists of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration performance evaluation and corporate Chairman, six executives and five non-Executive Committees.
David Rough is the Senior The schedule below sets out the number of Independent Director.
While the Board regards The role of the Board principal Board and Committee meetings held each of the five non-Executive Directors as The Board formulated strategy and monitored during the year together with individual being independent, Sir Winfried Bischoff is the the operating and financial performance of the attendance by Board members at those Chairman of Citigroup Europe which provides Group.
It operated in accordance with a written meetings.
investment banking services to the Group and schedule of matters reserved to the Board, a as a result did not fully meet the independence copy of which is available on the Companys Board balance and independence criteria set out in the Code.
Key matters reserved to the Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive unanimous view of his colleagues on the Board include: are split, with clear written guidance to support is that, by virtue of his character and experience, authorisation of significant transactions the division of responsibility.
No single he is robustly independent.
in excess of 100m individual has unfettered powers of decision.
dividend policy As Chairman, Peter Birch was responsible for the Throughout the majority of the year the Board internal controls via the Audit Committee effective working of the Board, ensuring that was non-compliant with the provision of the remuneration policy via the Remuneration all directors were able to play a full part in its Code which provides that at least half of the Committee shareholder circulars and listing particulars matters relating to share capital such as share Attendance at Board and Committee meetings buy backs The number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during the financial year was as follows: treasury policy and significant fundraising Audit Nominations Remuneration appointment removal of directors and Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings Company Secretary The Board used an annual process timetable to Peter Birch Chairman 9 3 ensure that relevant matters were given due Francis Salway Group Chief Executive 9 3 consideration as follows: Mark Collins 9 Strategy the Board held an annual off-site Martin Greenslade appointed 01 09 05 6 6 meeting at which the Companys strategy Ian Ellis 8 was reviewed in the context of the macroMike Hussey 9 and micro-economic environment, potential Richard Akers appointed 17 05 05 5 7 legislative changes, competitor strategies and David Rough Senior Independent Director 9 4 3 5 the need for the Company to create and Sir Winfried Bischoff 9 4 4 exploit competitive advantage.
Stuart Rose 9 4 5 Business plans the Board reviewed at sixBo Lerenius 8 3 4 monthly intervals five year forecasts, the Alison Carnwath 9 4 5 annual budget and business plan and the Andrew Macfarlane resigned 05 08 05 3 3 balanced scorecard, all of which are designed Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend as a Board Committee member Land Securities Annual Report 2006 86 Corporate Governance continued Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise March 2006.
The process covered both Board The Senior Independent Director attended the independent non-Executive Directors.
However, and Committee performance and the output preliminary and interim results meetings to the Board considers that the experience and from the appraisal was reviewed at a which investors are invited and his attendance independent judgement of its non-Executive subsequent Board meeting.
Overall the was notied to investors in advance.
In addition, Directors are more important than absolute appraisal process revealed a high level of the Chairman wrote to principal shareholders numbers.
It is therefore satisfied that no satisfaction with the functioning of the Board offering a clear line of contact with either him individual or group of directors has unfettered and its Committees.
In addition, individual or the Senior Independent Director as powers of discretion and that an appropriate performance as Board directors was appraised, recommended by the code.
The Annual General balance exists between the executive and nonbased on one-to-one interviews with the Meeting provided all shareholders with an executive members of the Board.
Chairman or, where appropriate, the Senior opportunity to question the Company on Independent Director.
matters put to the meeting including the The Chairman holds at least two meetings a Annual Report.
The results of proxy voting at year with the non-Executive Directors without Nominations Committee general meetings were published on the Executive Directors being present.
The Nominations Committee, which comprised Companys website as requested by the Code.
Peter Birch Chairman, David Rough and Francis The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, Salway met on three occasions to review Board Annual General Meeting is responsible for advising the Board on structure, size, composition and succession The Board welcomes the move towards a more governance matters and for ensuring good needs, keeping under review the balance of constructive use of Annual General Meetings information ows within the Board.
All membership and the required blend of skills, and regards the Annual General Meeting as directors have access to the advice and services knowledge and experience of the Board.
While the principal opportunity to meet private of the Company Secretary, as well as access to the membership of the Nominations shareholders.
At its Annual General Meeting, external advice, if required, at the expense Committee was non-compliant with the Code, the Company complies with the provisions of of the Group.
all key decisions relating to appointments and the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy membership of Board Committees are votes, the separation of resolutions and the Director induction and training considered by the full Board which includes attendance of Committee Chairmen.
The Directors were provided with training on a a strong representation of experienced Company arranges for the Annual Report and number of subjects, including the impact of independent non-Executive Directors.
The related papers to be posted to shareholders International Financial Reporting Standards on Committee reviewed the time required from so as to allow at least 20 working days the Groups accounts and in the new listing and non-Executive Directors and the annual for consideration prior to the Annual disclosure rules regime.
In the case of newly performance evaluation was used to assess General Meeting.
appointed directors, an induction programme, whether non-Executive Directors were spending which includes training on the responsibilities sufficient time to full their duties.
The Audit committee of a director, occurred prior to or immediately Committee also reviewed succession plans for The Audit Committee consists of all the Executive Directors and senior managers and following their appointment to the Board, if independent non-Executive Directors and that appointment was the first occasion that made recommendations to the Board on the is chaired by David Rough.
Although all of they have been appointed to the Board of a reappointment of non-Executive Directors at the Committee members are considered as listed company.
A tailored induction the conclusion of their specified terms of ofce.
appropriately experienced to full their role, programme is now provided for non-Executive Alison Carnwarth is considered as having Directors on appointment, co-ordinated by the Remuneration Committee significant, recent and relevant financial Company Secretary in accordance with The Committees activity is described in the experience in line with the Code.
Further details guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Remuneration Committee Report on pages of each of the independent directors are set out Secretaries and Administrators.
Board appraisal Investor relations The Audit Committees written terms of The formal annual appraisal of the performance Land Securities has a comprehensive Investor reference are available on the Groups website of the Board, its Committees and individual Relations programme which aims to provide and its principal oversight responsibilities cover: directors was undertaken in early 2006.
This existing and potential equity and bond investors internal control and risk management process was led by the Chairman with the with a means of developing their understanding internal audit assistance of the Company Secretary.
The wideof the Group and raising any concerns or issues external audit including auditor ranging appraisal questionnaire was based on they may have.
Further detail on the Groups independence the process and questions outlined in the Code Investor Relations activity is provided in the financial reporting and the results were reviewed by the Board in OFR on page 43.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 87 Corporate Governance continued The Committee met four times during the year.
The evaluation process Financial reporting The Audit Committee Chairman invited all other included feedback from relevant members of The Board seeks to present a balanced and Group Board directors to attend every management and the results were reported to understandable assessment of the Groups meeting and from time to time other senior the Board and Audit Committee.
position and prospects, and details are given management.
In addition, the Director of Risk in the Chairmans Statement and the OFR.
Management and Internal Audit and The Company has procedures in place to representatives from the external auditors, monitor and maintain the objectivity and Going concern  LLP, were also present independence of the external auditors, After making enquiries, the directors have a at each meeting.
The Committee also met  LLP PwC.
The reasonable expectation that the Company has separately with the external and internal procedures include guidance on the non-audit adequate resources to continue in operational auditors and the valuers.
services that PwC can provide after proper existence for the foreseeable future.
On a six-monthly basis, the Audit reason, they continue to adopt the going The Committee undertook the following Committee reviewed a summary of all nonconcern basis in preparing the accounts.
activities at these meetings: audit work.
In addition to the audit related reviewed the interim and annual results services, PwC provided the following services Internal control and considered any matters raised by during the year: The Board is responsible for the Groups management and the external auditors accounting advice relating to the debt system of internal control and for reviewing reviewed and approved the Companys restructuring its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to approach to implementing IFRS accounting advice associated with acquisition manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure reviewed and approved the audit plans of Tops Estates to meet business objectives and can provide for the external and internal auditors taxation advice, including planning and only reasonable and not absolute assurance monitored the scope, effectiveness, compliance against material misstatement or loss.
The independence and objectivity of the external advice on IFRS accounting Board confirms that this system is designed to audit pension fund audit be in accordance with the Turnbull guidance and discussed the results of internal audit reviews, advice on a number of Land Securities has been in place for the year under review and significant findings, managements action Trillium bids up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
plans and the timeliness of resolution advice on the accounting for the disposal reviewed the Groups Turnbull Report to of the Groups share in Telereal The key features of our system of internal support the Boards sign-off on the system of control include: internal control see below for more details Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out a Strategic and business planning: the Group reviewed reports on the Groups risk in note 7 to the financial statements.
and each business unit produce and agree a management measures and actions business plan each year, against which the reviewed progress on the project to The external auditors reported to the performance of the business is regularly replace key finance IT systems Committee that they remained independent monitored.
Balanced scorecards are prepared reviewed the plans in place to manage and had maintained internal safeguards to that set out targets for a wide variety of key risks associated with the termination of the ensure their objectivity.
performance indicators, including BBC contract risk management reviewed the approach to periodic valuation Valuers b Investment appraisal: capital projects, major of Land Securities Trilliums operating The Group gives the valuers and auditors access contracts and business and property properties using Independent Valuers to each other.
These advisers have a dialogue acquisitions are reviewed in detail and reviewed the Groups approach to developing and exchange of information which is entirely approved by the Investment Committee a best practice OFR, including considering independent of the Group.
The Audit and or the Board, in accordance with the advice of external consultants Committee Chairman attends key valuation delegated authority limits in conjunction with the Board appraisal meetings as do the auditors to be assured of c Financial monitoring: profitability, cash detailed on page 86, the Committee reviewed the independence of the process.
ow and capital expenditure are closely its own effectiveness and concluded that it monitored and key financial information is had continued to operate as an effective In line with the Carsberg Committee report we reported to the Board on a monthly basis, Audit Committee have a xed fee arrangement with our Valuers, including explanations of variances between Knight Frank LLP.
The proportion of total fees actual and budgeted performance External auditors paid by the Company to the total fee income d Systems of control procedures and delegated The Audit Committee appraised the of Knight Frank was less than 5%.
authorities: there are clearly dened effectiveness of the external auditors and the guidelines and approval limits for capital Land Securities Annual Report 2006 88 Corporate Governance continued and operating expenditure and other key The Director of Internal Audit and Risk In performing its review of effectiveness, the business transactions and decisions.
Management reports to the Group Chief Audit Committee took into account the Operational and financial procedures and Executive and has direct access to the Audit following reports and activities: controls are maintained on the Groups Committee Chairman.
The internal audit intranet function operates a risk-based audit approach Internal audit reports on reviews of business e Risk management: we have an ongoing and provides a summary report on the processes and activities, including action process to identify, evaluate and manage operation of the system of risk management plans to address any identied control the risks faced by the Group.
Further details and internal control to support the Boards weaknesses.
The status of these action plans of our risk management process and our annual statement.
was also monitored by internal audit and principal business risks are set out in the overdue actions reported to Audit Committee OFR as well as on page 89 The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness Managements own assessments of the f Six-monthly assessments: a compliance of internal audit activities including the scope strengths and weaknesses of the overall questionnaire is completed twice a year of work, authority and resources of the internal control environment in their area, with before external reports are issued, which audit function.
action plans to address the weaknesses is signed off by senior managers, providing External auditor reports on any issues assurances that controls are both embedded The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board identied in the course of their work, and effective within the business has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems including internal control reports on control g Internal audit: responsible for reviewing key of internal control and risk management.
weaknesses, which were provided to the Audit business processes and controls, including Committee as well as executive management following up the implementation of The review covered all material areas of the Risk management reporting, including the management actions business including financial, operational and status of actions to mitigate major risks and compliance controls and risk management.
the quantication of selected risks Land Securities Annual Report 2006
