Corporate governance report the Committees of the Board, their responsibilities, membership and Statement of Compliance and Explanation activities during the year are provided separately in this report.
The UK Listing Authority Listing Rules require the Company to Directors concerns which cannot be resolved are recorded in the report on its compliance with the principles and provisions of the Board minutes.
There is appropriate insurance cover in respect of Combined Code and to provide an explanation where it departs legal action against the directors.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Board confirms that the Company has complied with the Chairman and Chief Executive Principles and Provisions of the Combined Code with the The roles of the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive exceptions explained in detail in this report.
This report should are clearly established in writing and have been approved by the be read in conjunction with the Directors Remuneration Board.
The Chairmans key responsibilities are: report on pages 38 to 41 and the biographies of the directors on pages 28 to 29. the effective running of the Board: ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part The Board responsibilities in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
overall commercial objectives: and The Boards main aim is to produce high long-term rates of return to Shareholders.
The Board is responsible for setting strategic aims, as the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes.
ensuring necessary resources are in place to meet its objectives, The Chief Executives principal responsibilities are: reviewing management performance, ensuring the integrity of financial information and financial controls, and the systems for running the Groups business and acting as chief spokesman for the managing risk.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that all Company: information, including all price sensitive information reported by the proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall Company, is presented as a balanced and understandable assessment commercial objectives, which he does in close consultation with of the Companys position and prospects.
As such, the Company has the Chairman and the Board: and a written policy on the disclosure of price sensitive information.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees, with which includes major investment expenditure, financing and the executive team.
This schedule is reviewed annually.
The Board has Non-executive directors delegated authority to management to approve capital expenditure below defined thresholds.
The levels of delegated authority are The non-executive directors provide support to management in regularly reviewed by the Board.
Some powers are delegated by the developing proposals on strategy and scrutinise the performance of Board to its Committees and full details of the Committees management.
At the Board and Audit Committee meetings the nonterms of reference can be obtained from the Companys website, executive directors satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial www.
information and financial controls, and systems of risk management.
Through the Remuneration Committee non-executive directors are Internal control responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal executive directors.
As members of the Nomination Committee, control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system is non-executive directors have a key role in appointing and, where designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Independence absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system and reports to the Board.
The Board has carefully considered directors independence and has Management continually monitors risk management processes and determined that all the non-executive directors discharge their duties reports at each Board meeting on the chief risks affecting the Group.
in an independent manner, and constructively and appropriately The Board confirms that throughout the year under review and up challenge management and the Board.
Their experience provides to the date of the approval of this annual report and accounts there valuable benefit to the Board.
Mr Grant, Dr Duroc-Danner, has been a process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell are deemed independent by the the significant risks faced by the Group.
Further detail on the risk Board.
An explanation for the independence of directors who are management and internal control procedures are described separately deemed independent by the Company, notwithstanding the under the section on the Audit Committee on page 37. conditions of independence set out in A.
3.1 of the Combined Code is given below: Financial statements Mr Grant has been a director since 1984 and it is the Boards view The Board is satisfied that in the financial statements and reports that his experience and long-term perspective continues to provide to Shareholders it has presented a balanced and understandable a valuable contribution to the Board and that he has demonstrated assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
A statement of he is independent in character and judgement.
The Combined the directors responsibilities for the financial statements follows.
Code assumes a director who has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election is not Structure independent.
Mr Grant is the Deputy Chairman and, as the senior The Board has eight directors, three executive and five independent director he is the point of contact to Shareholders as non-executive, their details, experience and committee membership are given on pages 28 to 29.
The make up of the Board is specifically designed to provide a balance of skills and experience.
The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees, and details of 34 London Merchant Securities plc an alternative to the normal channels of communication through the Information and development Chief Executive or Chairman.
No Shareholders took advantage of The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the Board and its his availability during the year.
Mr Grant also conducts the Committees are provided with full and timely information to enable performance evaluation of the Chairman.
them to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board ensures that all new directors are sufficiently apprised of the Companys business and Dr Duroc-Danner is Chairman, President and Chief Executive their duties as directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis.
Officer of Weatherford International and he has a depth of New directors are provided with induction information and have knowledge and experience in acquisitions and multinational access to management to allow them to familiarise themselves with business and is of considerable benefit to the Board.
New non-executives are available to meet major is satisfied that the independence of Dr Duroc-Danner is not Shareholders if requested.
The Board and its Committees are compromised and that he has demonstrated he is independent in provided with internal and external briefings where appropriate to character and judgement, notwithstanding that he and Mr Rayne ensure their knowledge is continually updated.
Briefings and hold cross-directorships in Weatherford International and presentations include tours of the Companys property portfolio.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and Appointments independent professional advice is available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
There is a transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors and the prime responsibility for the appointment of Performance evaluation directors rests with the Board.
The Nomination Committee is The Board has undertaken a comprehensive evaluation of its responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the performance including its Committees and individual directors.
approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies as and when they The evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out arise as well as put in place plans for succession of the Chairman and through a questionnaire, facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Further details of the role of the Nomination The evaluation covered structure, objectives, decision making, Committee are provided separately in this report.
None of the meeting processes, induction and training and relations with executive directors has a non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 management.
The conclusion of the evaluation demonstrated that the company.
Full account of the Boards view would be taken if the issue Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively.
arose and would be considered on a case by case basis.
Mr Rayne has The evaluation of individual non-executive directors was carried out a non-executive directorship in a NYSE listed company and the fees by the Chairman.
The evaluation of the Chief Executive in respect of this directorship are paid to the Company.
was undertaken by the Chairman with the other non-executive The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are available directors.
Evaluation of the other executive directors was undertaken for inspection, and they set out expected time commitments.
The conclusions of the evaluations were that The external commitments of the non-executive directors were the directors demonstrated commitment and continue to contribute disclosed to the Board before their appointment.
The commitments effectively to their role.
The senior independent director carried out of the non-executive directors are reviewed as part of the an appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the other nonperformance evaluation explained in this report and the Board executives.
The evaluation concluded that the Chairman continued is satisfied that non-executive directors commit sufficient time to the to demonstrate commitment and effective leadership of the Board.
fulfilment of their duties as directors of the Company.
Re-election Attendance The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are subject to The directors present at the Board and Committee meetings are set the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association relating to out in the table below: retirement by rotation.
All directors are subject to retirement by Board AuditRemuneration Nomination rotation at least every three years.
The Nomination Committee considered the effectiveness of the contribution of the directors Number of meetings held 11 6 6 1 retiring by rotation and concluded that each makes a valuable and G CGreene 11 6 6 1 PJGrant 11 5 5 1 effective contribution to the Company and recommends to BJDuroc-Danner 4 n a n a Shareholders that their periods of appointment should continue 1 NR Friedlos 11 6 n a 1 for a further three years.
The biographies of Mr Greene, JFde Moller 11 6 6 1 Mr Grant, Mr Friedlos and Mr Newell, who are seeking re-election DNewell 10 6 6 1 are on pages 28 to 29.
1 MA Pexton 11 n a 6 1 1 R A Rayne 10 n a n a Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms as 2 JMWilson 4 n a n a required by A.
It is the Boards view that whilst limits on length of appointment help to ensure that fresh ideas All Board and Committee papers are circulated in advance of the and views are available to the Board, they have the significant meetings to allow all directors time to make comments, if necessary, disadvantage of losing the contribution of directors who have a in advance of the meeting through the Chairman.
wealth of understanding of the Groups business.
Since 2002 1 Executive directors are not members of the Audit or Remuneration Committees but attend two executive directors and two non-executive directors have when invited.
2 Resigned on 26 January 2006 and prior to this there were eight Board meetings.
