Corporate governance report continued Going concern Report of the Nomination Committee After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Group has The Board has a Nomination Committee of which a majority adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the are independent non-executive directors.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going appointed by the Board and chaired by Mr Greene, also comprise concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dr Duroc-Danner, Mr Friedlos, Mr Grant, Mrs Moller, Mr Newell, Mr Pexton and Mr Rayne.
Their experience is given on pages 28 Shareholders to 29.
The main role and responsibilities of the Nomination Led by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, the Company Committee are set in written terms of reference in accordance conducts a continual programme of meeting equity and debt with best practice and are reviewed annually.
The remit of the investors as well as analysts and a rating agency.
During the year Nomination Committee is available on the Companys website, management met with institutional Shareholders as and when www.
The Nomination Committee carried out its requested and as part of formal road show of meetings with investors.
responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference, including Meetings are conducted within the guidance provided by the UKLA reviewing its own performance and its terms of reference.
The Listing Rules on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
Committee considers the skills and experience of the Board and Presentations are made to investors and analysts after the interim and during the year it considered the effectiveness of the contribution of year end results as well as during the year to improve understanding the directors retiring by rotation and concluded that each makes a of particular areas of the business or to update them on current valuable and effective contribution to the Company and activities.
These presentations, as well as a regular flow of news recommended that their periods of appointment should continue for releases made through a Regulatory Information Service, are posted a further three years.
on the Companys website, www.
The Chairman, the senior independent director and non-executive directors are available Report of the Remuneration Committee to attend meetings requested by major Shareholders.
The Board is regularly apprised of the views of investors, analysts and the media.
The Board has a Remuneration Committee appointed by the Board Reports are made available to the Board on feedback received on an and chaired by the senior independent director, Mr Grant.
unattributable basis from analyst briefings and investor road shows It also includes Mr Greene, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell.
carried out regularly by management.
Their experience is given on pages 28 to 29.
The Board believe that the interests of the Company are better served with Mr Greene as a The Annual General Meeting member of the Remuneration Committee notwithstanding the The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting is a good requirement of the Combined Code that all members of the opportunity to communicate with all investors and the Company Remuneration Committee should be independent.
Mr Greene provides time for Shareholders attending to meet and discuss matters is not involved in determining his own remuneration.
The main role with members of the Board outside the formal meeting.
and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set in At each Annual General Meeting all proxy votes are counted and, written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually.
The remit of after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands, the level the Remuneration Committee is available on the Companys of proxies lodged and the number of votes is indicated.
During the year the Remuneration The number of proxy votes lodged, how they were voted and the Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with its result of the resolution voted at the Annual General Meeting, will be terms of reference and its activities are described in the Directors available on the Companys website after the Annual General Remuneration report on pages 38 to 41.
No director was involved in Meeting.
Members of CREST are given the opportunity to vote deciding his or her own remuneration.
The Committee also electronically to maximise the number of votes cast.
All substantially considered the impact of the demerger on the Companys share separate issues are proposed as separate resolutions at the Annual schemes, the new long-term incentive scheme, as well as the General Meeting.
All directors attend the Companys Annual General incentive arrangements for Leo Capital plc.
The new schemes for Meeting, where Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions both the Company and Leo Capital are described in detail in the to the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination circular posted to Shareholders on 12 April 2006 and approved at the Committees.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to Extraordinary General Meeting held on 17 May 2006.
Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting to allow time for proxy votes to be returned by institutional Shareholders.
Report of the Audit Committee Membership The Board has an Audit Committee of non-executive directors.
The members are appointed by the Board and chaired by Mr Newell.
It also includes Mr Grant, Mr Greene and Mrs fide Moller.
The Board believe that the interests of the Company are better served with Mr Greene as a member of the Audit Committee and that his membership does not compromise the Committees ability to discharge its duties properly.
The Board consider that collectively the Audit Committee has significant financial experience and ability to discharge its duties properly, gained from managing business of similar or greater size and complexity and through extensive service on the Boards and Audit 36 London Merchant Securities plc Committees of listed companies.
The Company does not Committee reviews the risks identified and the system of control comply with C. 3.1 of the Combined Code that states that all in place to manage those risks.
It gives consideration in particular to members of the Audit Committee must be independent and that at the following: least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent a review of the inherent risks in the business which have been relevant financial experience.
identified by management: Responsibilities the appropriateness of the authority, resources and co-ordination of The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set in those involved in the identification, assessment and management of written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually as part significant risks faced by the Group: of the Committees evaluation process.
The terms of reference the effectiveness of managements response to the significant risks are available on the Companys website, www.
which have been identified: The main responsibilities are: a review of risk monitoring and reporting procedures in place: to make recommendations on the appointment of the Auditors, to assess the independence of the Auditors and to recommend the the Group policies and employee procedures for the reporting audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
As part of its non-audit services that do not impair the Auditors independence reporting, management provides the Audit Committee with risk or objectivity: indicators and recommendations for improvement in the system of risk management: and to agree the nature and scope of the audit and to review the Auditors quality control procedures: relationships with stakeholders, such as tenants, which are likely to directly or indirectly influence the performance of the business.
to review annually the requirements for an internal audit function No such significant relationships were identified.
and, if required, review the internal audit programme: The principal risks identified are economic climate, legislative, to review managements and any internal audit reports on the market factors, property development and management.
effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management: and Internal audit to review and challenge, where necessary, the actions and The Audit Committee carried out its annual review of the judgements of management in relation to the interim and requirement for an internal audit function.
The Committee annual financial statements before submission to the Board.
concluded that such a function was not required due to the size of the Group and number of employees.
The Board, on the Financial reporting recommendation of the Audit Committee, has adopted a policy The Audit Committee has reviewed the significant financial whereby staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
preparation of the Groups financial statements including significant The Audit Committee is responsible for implementing and accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant reviewing the policy.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed Auditors the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements and considered whether the disclosures made were set properly in In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, the Audit context.
The review of the financial statements also included a review Committee carries out an annual review of the independence of the of the operating and financial review and corporate governance Groups Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Senior members of the audit reports, including statements relating to audit and risk management.
team are rotated on a regular basis.
The Company has a policy on the In addition, the Audit Committee has considered and overseen the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors.
The implementation implementation of International Accounting Standards and have put of the policy is continually monitored by the Audit Committee.
in place processes to monitor the effectiveness of the systems to meet The policy excludes the Auditors from providing services in relation the applicable requirements.
to the outsourcing of internal audit and any other consultancy work that the Audit Committee considers is contrary to the ethical Internal control and risk management principles laid down by the Audit Committee.
The Committees The Audit Committee has a responsibility to review the Groups considerations included the provision of non-audit services carried internal control system and risk management system and make out by the Auditors described in note 7 on page 60 and was satisfied appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Management is that they were objective and independent of the Group.
responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in The Committee reviewed the policy on the provision of non-audit the business together with the design and operation of a suitable services by the Auditors and the Board considers that the policy system of control to manage those risks.
Management is also provides adequate protection of the Auditors independence.
responsible for ensuring that the risk profile of the business is kept under continuous review and that significant changes in the business or the external environment which affect the risk profile are identified and acted upon.
To enable it to do this, the Audit London Merchant Securities plc 37
