31 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and the directors consider that throughout the period under review the Company has complied with the applicable principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority Rules, save that the US based executive director, David Verklin, has a rolling service contract with a contractual termination payment provision in excess of one year.
Details of David Verklins contractual entitlement on termination are set out on page 39.
The board believes that his contract is appropriate given the need to retain a key senior operational executive in the context of highly competitive market conditions in the USA B.
As noted on page 39, Mainardo fide Nardis service contract includes a liquidated damages clause which expires on 18 August 2007 should the Company commit a repudiatory breach of his contract of employment within 12 months from the date of commencement of his employment.
At the date of this report the Board comprises 12 directors, a non-executive chairman, five executive directors and six non-executive directors.
The biographies of the current directors illustrate their range of experience, which ensures that the Company has an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have been throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the management of the Group and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Bernard Fournier is the appointed senior independent director and he is available should occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly established, being set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman was independent at the time of his appointment and has remained so since.
The Board has a formal induction plan for non-executive directors to ensure that a comprehensive familiarisation programme is in place.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required.
As part of the business of each meeting of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer provides the Board with an update on current business matters and the Chief Financial Officer also reports on the financial position of the Group.
At each Board meeting one or two presentations are arranged from different business units or head office functions in order that the nonexecutives in particular continue their process of familiarisation with the business of the Group and meet other senior non-board executives.
When considered appropriate, external advisers are also invited to attend that part of the meeting which is relevant.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently when business needs require.
One Board meeting is held at the offices of one of the main business units and is typically added to a second day devoted entirely to the ongoing development of the Companys strategy.
The following table identifies the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance record, by presence or by telephone, of individual directors.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION NO.
OF MEETINGS IN YEAR 84 2 2 Lord Sharman 8- 1 2 Adrian Chedore 8- - - Daniel Farrar 8- 2 2 Bernard Fournier 64 - 1 Jeremy Hicks 8 4 -- Robert Lerwill 8 4 2 2 Mainardo fide Nardis 4- - - appointed 18.08.06 Brendan ONeill 84 - 2 Charles Strauss 7- 2 2 Lorraine Trainer 8- 2 2 David Verklin 8- - - Leslie Van fide Walle 83 - 2 by invitation From time to time the non-executive directors, including the Chairman, meet in the absence of the executive directors to consider matters of relevance to the running of the Board and the operation of the Company.
In 2006, the non-executives, led by the senior non-executive director, continued the process of meeting annually without the Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
As a result of this the senior independent director met with the Chairman to discuss any particular issues where it was felt that improvements could be made.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda and the Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including approval of interim and annual results, the dividend policy, approval of all circulars and listing particulars, matters relating to share capital, approval of the annual budget and approval of major capital projects, investments and commitments.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Group General Counsel and, if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board considers that the Company has in place an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year so that over a three year period all directors will have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
During 2006 the Board continued the process of formal performance evaluation appraisal of the Board as a whole and of all of the individual directors and the process of formal evaluation of its main committees.
This work was undertaken by one of Synovates specialist businesses, with 32 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE each director completing a detailed questionnaire which sought an assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the contribution of individual directors.
The responses were aggregated and feedback has been provided on individual assessment and overall Board and committees performance and any actions necessary to assist improvements agreed.
Synovate undertakes similar work for a number of other large UK listed companies.
Board committees The Board agrees the terms of reference for all Board committees which are formally documented and regularly updated.
The main roles and responsibilities of the committees, including the authority delegated to them by the Board, as set out in the terms of reference, are displayed on the Companys website at www.
com and available from the Company Secretary on request.
Audit Committee Brendan ONeill is chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
The other two continuing members of the Committee are Bernard Fournier and Leslie Van fide Walle.
The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors attend all meetings.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings.
The Committee chairman meets with the auditors without management present.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee normally meets four times a year to: Review the half-year interim results and the findings of the auditors review and to discuss the scope of the current year full audit Review internal audit and risk management and controls, and to consider progress reports from the Group Risk Committee and Group Risk Manager: and Prior to the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results, to review the years results and audit findings In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the Committee focuses in particular on: Changes in accounting policies and practices Major judgemental areas Issues resulting from the audit The going concern assumption Compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code: and Compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors appointment, monitors and reviews the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness and develops and implements policy on the engagement of the supply of nonaudit services.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committee has considered information pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group in the year and concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
In addition, the Committee has approved the external auditors terms of engagement, the scope of work and process for the 2006 interim review and full audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
Based on written reports submitted to the Audit Committee, the Committee has reviewed with the external auditors the findings of their work and confirmed that all significant matters had been satisfactorily resolved.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Charles Strauss chairman, Daniel Farrar and Lorraine Trainer.
The Committee meets periodically as required but not less than twice a year.
It is responsible for overseeing the policy regarding executive remuneration and for approving the remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing incentive schemes for the Group as a whole and is empowered to approve awards under the 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Performance Share Plan.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings and the Committee consults him on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and other appropriate senior executives.
He does not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating to him.
Similarly, the Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Committee but may attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Group Human Resources director attends all meetings.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired by Lord Sharman.
The Committee meets as and when necessary and has responsibility for reviewing the board structure, size and composition, and for identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment as directors.
It also meets to review the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment for nonexecutive directors, with any individual in question not taking part in the discussion.
The Committee meets once a year, together with the Group Human Resources director, specifically to review the Groups ongoing succession planning.
This is key to ensuring that the Group maintains an appropriate balance of skills and experience across the Group and on the board.
Internal control and risk management The Group operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the 2003 Code and the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report revised.
33 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only give reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and any significant risk issues are referred to the Board.
An executive committee the Group Risk Committee in place since early 2003 manages and monitors the Groups risk and control processes and procedures.
Membership of the committee comprises: Group Risk Manager Group HR Director Group Chief Financial Officer Group Company Secretary Group General Counsel Group Chief Information Officer Senior representatives from the various operating Group businesses The committee meets four times a year.
The Group Risk Manager develops policies and procedures and manages the risk self-assessment programme together with other activities as directed by the Group Risk Committee.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings and of the Group Risk Committee meetings to the Board and the Board also receives the minutes of the Audit Committee.
The key procedures which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts are as follows: a.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The full Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for consideration, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective supervision over appropriate controls.
The Groups strategic direction is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer together with the executive directors consider the strategy for the individual businesses.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by the executive directors and reviewed by the Board in the light of the Groups overall objectives.
The division of responsibility at Board level is achieved by the appointment of a non-executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
Management of the Groups day-to-day activities is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors and they review on a regular basis any significant risks which the business faces.
c. Each operations chief executive officer is responsible for: The conduct and performance of their business: Ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in place and reporting on this bi-annually: Meeting defined reporting timetables and ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and controls: and Signing-off their accounts on a monthly basis subject to the limitations set by the annual business strategy and the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board.
d. The Board receives, on a monthly basis, financial results from each business and the Group reports bi-annually to shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
e. The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group and receives reports from external auditors, the Group Risk Committee, the Group Risk Manager, the Internal Audit Manager and the Chief Financial Officer on a regular basis.
f. The internal financial control system is reviewed by Group Finance which reports to management and the Audit Committee.
Group Finance, the Group Risk Manager, the Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors co-ordinate their work to the extent necessary for the external auditors to express their audit opinion on the Groups report and accounts.
g. There is a clearly defined framework for approving all acquisitions, new and renewing leases, major capital projects and expenditure within the Group.
h. The Group Principles and Policies Manual is held by all Group senior management and formally collates policies that apply throughout the Group which address legal, financial, IT, personnel and other areas of risk.
The policies are updated from time to time as necessary.
An employee version of the manual is also available, via the Companys intranet site, to other employees around the Group.
34 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE i.
A formal risk self assessment programme using an on-line questionnaire is used twice each year.
It requires every business unit CEO to report, for each of the Groups key risks, the status of internal control and risk management within their operation.
The results, including managements planned actions, are analysed by the Risk Committee and provided online to regional, global and Group management as well as to the Risk and Audit Committees.
Implementation of action plans is monitored by global and regional management and the Group Risk Manager.
A structured risk-based analysis of the business led to the internal audit plan for 2006 and during the year Internal Audit conducted 16 audits which concentrated on financial controls at the operations deemed to be higher risk.
In addition, IT security controls were audited at the 10 major data centres and a number of other ad-hoc audits also carried out.
Internal Audit is supported by an international firm of accountants from which locally-based, experienced accountants are used to carry out specific parts of the internal audit work.
Recently acquired companies were also visited by Internal Audit to review their control environment.
The results of internal audits are reported to country, regional, global and Group management as appropriate and also to the Risk and Audit Committees.
Action plans to address any areas of concern are agreed with management and their implementation monitored and reported to the Risk Committee.
The internal audit manager continued to manage the peer review programme which provides a good level of assurance and focuses on smaller size and perceived medium risk businesses.
Peer reviews were conducted at 15 operations around the Group in 2006.
The reviews are carried out by experienced finance directors from other Group operating companies.
The reviews are structured to ensure that each of the Groups key risks are rigorously evaluated using a consistent approach and a common work-programme.
The results are reported to country, regional, global and Group management and to the Risk and the Audit Committees.
k. Arrangements are in place that allow employees, in confidence, to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are not raised in bad faith.
During 2006 the Group Risk Manager and Group Risk Committee have continued to build on the above core procedures and processes.
In particular the following matters were implemented to further strengthen the internal control infrastructure and environment: 1.
The annual confirmation process was revised so as to require each business CEO and CFO to certify that, to the best of their knowledge, in respect of their business: the 2006 accounts as submitted were accurate and complete: there were no actual or potential breaches of laws or regulations: there were no actual or suspected frauds: there were no related party transactions other than those properly disclosed: and there were no conflicted directorships Similar certifications have been required of regional, global and Group management.
2. Review of the processes to manage acquired companies, including due diligence and post integration.
3. Review of the key risks facing the Groups IT systems, data centres and their control environments.
4. Review of the Groups treasury operations and their control environments.
5. Review of the risk of an avian flu pandemic and any operational action plans as a consequence.
On 12 September 2006 the German State Prosecutor in Wiesbaden, acting on information received, informed the company of a possible fraud against Aegis Media Germany.
The Board immediately instigated an internal investigation led by the Groups German lawyers.
That investigation concluded that significant fraud amounting to approximately37.8 million 25.8 million had been perpetrated against Aegis Media Germany over a period of some three years.
Investigations have been instigated by the Wiesbaden State Prosecutor into the affairs of a number of individuals and companies.
These included the then Chief Executive of Aegis Media Central and Eastern Europe, and four other employees of Aegis Media Germany, with a view to determining their involvement in the fraud.
All five of the Group employees concerned have been dismissed.
The Groups investigation established that, between 2003 and 2006, Aegis Media Germany had received and recorded falsified invoices which were paid to the benefit of the perpetrators.
However, it has also been established that the companys underlying books and records properly recognise its existing assets and liabilities.
The Group is taking steps to seek recompense and, although it is probable that there will be some recovery of funds, the amount is not sufficiently certain to be recognised as an asset.
Accordingly, no restatement of the net assets or of the income statement for the current or prior years is required.
However, it is estimated that some5.5 million 3.8 million of VAT may have been incorrectly reclaimed by the Group as a result.
Although this VAT may be recoverable, the recovery is not sufficiently certain to be recoginised as an asset.
Accordingly the Group has provided for 3.8 million as an exceptional item.
A further investigation has been made by the Group into whether there had been any internal control failings or weaknesses which may have facilitated the fraud.
The nature of the fraud was highly sophisticated and involved collusion by a number of parties both inside the company and externally.
This enabled the existing internal controls in place at the time to be evaded.
However, following the investigation a number of additional 35 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE procedures and controls were recommended by management, approved by the Audit Committee, and are being implemented to improve the Groups internal controls in this area.
The changes include new management, additional documentation, approvals and reconciliation procedures.
Management of key risks As a result of a change in EU law, the UK Companies Act 1985 has been amended to require a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Board has identified the following potential risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Group's performance, and has put in place internal processes and controls designed to mitigate each risk.
The Group's results could also be impacted by other factors.
The risk factors detailed below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
RISK FACTOR INTERNAL PROCESSES AND CONTROLS Adverse economic, political and legal environments Regular monitoring of market trends Detailed planning process and appropriate contingency plans Diversification of geographic footprint Retention of key talent Provide rewarding employment experience Specific HR plans reviewed at Board level Competitive pressures Investment in products and services Client satisfaction surveys Continual training of staff Acquisitions Strategic planning Robust due diligence procedures Board approvals Post integration procedures Financial controls Internal audit process Self-assessment programme Directors annual confirmations Detailed budgeting and forecasting procedures Credit risk Efficient credit control function including credit insurance where appropriate Client acceptance procedures Payment in advance in certain instances Currency risk Hedging of all transactions and financial instruments with material currency exposures Liquidity risk Working capital management Daily review of short-term liquidity Continual analysis of borrowing facilities Business continuity and disaster recovery Build in resilience where cost-effective Business continuity plans Regular testing of these plans The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and that there are ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Going concern Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with shareholders Good relations with shareholders are extremely important to us.
We want them to have a full understanding of the dynamics and prospects of our business, and to have an active, open and two-way relationship with us at all levels.
To that end, we spend a considerable amount of time on an active programme of investor and analyst education about Aegis.
The CEO, CFO and communications director conduct formal roadshow meetings with existing and potential shareholders after our preliminary and interim results.
In addition, we spend significant time outside our financial calendar roadshows meeting institutional investors, particularly in the UK, Europe and the US.
Major institutional investors are offered the opportunity to meet with newly appointed non-executive directors.
We also make our operational management available to meet with shareholders and analysts, as appropriate, and a range of senior management representatives regularly present at investor conferences and events throughout the 36 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE year.
We have regular contact with the sell-side analysts who cover Aegis, and we actively monitor their opinions and forecasts.
We regularly hold introductory meetings for new analysts and fund managers, and in November 2006, as in previous years, we held a detailed half-day seminar, covering strategy and operations at both Aegis Media and Synovate.
Our contact programme is developed in consultation with our advisors, and reviewed against the market norm.
For 2006, the level of contact was characterised as comprehensive and at the forefront of best practice for a FTSE 250 company, both in terms of the number of separate institutions met and the percentage of the register covered.
The Board receives monthly reports from our investor relations advisors, covering market and sector issues, as well as changes in valuation.
It also receives regular briefings from our brokers, giving views on shareholder perceptions, and continues to monitor what further steps it might take to improve its understanding of shareholder opinion.
The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to address questions to the Chairman or the Board directly including the chairmen of the Board committees.
Shareholders may also raise issues on an informal basis, following the conclusion of the AGM.
Published information, including press releases, presentations and webcasts of our results meetings, is available on our corporate website, www.
John Ross Company Secretary 14 March 2007
