24 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance report Corporate governance the Companys expense and relevant insurance cover has been arranged Compass Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate in relation to legal action against the directors.
The Board sets strategic governance and has complied throughout the year with the provisions aims and ensures that adequate financial and human resources are made of Section 1 of the Combined Code the Code.
This statement available to enable these objectives to be met and undertakes reviews of describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in the management performance.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys Code have been applied within the Company during the year.
values and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and Board membership met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, The Board currently comprises a Chairman, five non-executive directors including the approval of overall strategy and objectives, acquisition and and two executive directors.
Subject to passing resolutions 4 to 7 divestment plans, treasury policy, major capital expenditure, dividend inclusive at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Board will comprise strategy, financial statements and senior executive succession planning.
a Chairman, four non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available for viewing Biographical details of the directors are given on page 20.
All directors on the Companys website.
joining the Board are required to stand for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and they are thereafter required Board and committee meetings to offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The roles The Board is scheduled to meet nine times and to hold a one-day strategy of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined with review each year.
The Board may also meet at other times as and when the division of responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
During the year, the Board met 11 times and held a one-day strategy review in September 2006.
Individual attendance at those Chairman meetings and at committee meetings of the Board is set out in the table Sir Roy Gardner was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005 as below.
Where n a appears in the table the relevant director is not a Senior Independent Director and he succeeded Sir Francis Mackay committee member.
The Chairman is primarily responsible Strategy Audit  for the effective functioning of the Board.
Name Board ReviewCommittee CommitteeCommittee Sir Roy Gardner 8 1 n a 0 4 Chief Executive Richard Cousins was appointed to the Board on 2 May 2006 and he Richard Cousins 4 1 n a n a n a succeeded Michael Bailey as Chief Executive on 1 June 2006.
Richard Peter Blackburn 11161 n a Cousins will stand for election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Peter Cawdron 11 1 n a 1 5 The Chief Executive is responsible for operating the business and Val Gooding 9 1 n a 1 5 implementing the Boards strategies and policies.
Sven Kado 11 1 6 n a 5 Senior Independent Director Steve Lucas 10 1 6 n a 5 Peter Cawdron was Senior Independent Director prior to Sir Roy Andrew Martin 11 1 n a n a n a Gardners appointment to that position on 1 October 2005 and following Sir Roy Gardners appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2006, Peter Alain Dupuis 0 0 n a n a n a Cawdron recombined the role of Senior Independent Director with his Michael Bailey 8 0 n a n a n a retained role as Deputy Chairman.
The responsibilities of the Senior Sir Francis Mackay 8 0 n a 1 n a Independent Director include being available to shareholders should they have any concerns that contact through the usual channels has failed to Number of meetings resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate and ensuring that the during the year 111615 performance evaluation of the Chairman is conducted effectively.
Richard Cousins has attended all Board meetings since his appointment as a director on 2 May 2006.
Independent non-executive directors Alain Dupuis, Michael Bailey and Sir Francis Mackay resigned as directors on During the year, the Board considered the independence of the non- 1 October 2005, 31 May 2006 and 30 June 2006 respectively.
executive directors in relation to the Code and determined that each was independent including Peter Cawdron in spite of him having served Throughout the year, the non-executive directors including the Chairman a period exceeding nine years.
The Board concluded that Peter Cawdron met independently of their executive colleagues on a regular basis.
continued to perform effectively and demonstrated the objectivity and commitment necessary to the role of independent non-executive director.
Board evaluation Peter Cawdron was re-elected at the 2006 Annual General Meeting for During the year, the Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own a period of up to one year only and he will retire from the Board at the performance by means of a written questionnaire and for the second conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
successive year, the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators undertook an evaluation of the collective effectiveness of each of the Company Secretary Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The evaluations Tim Mason is the Company Secretary and he is responsible for covered areas including the composition of the Board and its committees, advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
information needs, decision-making processes, agendas, training and The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company continuing professional development.
The results of these evaluations Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary were discussed by the Board and used to consider opportunities for is a matter for the Board.
A performance evaluation of each of the directors was conducted by the Chairman in one-to-one meetings and the nonRole of the Board executive directors led by Peter Cawdron, conducted a performance The role of the Board is to promote the success of the Company and evaluation of the Chairman.
provide leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
To enable the Board to Training and development perform its duties effectively all directors have full access to all relevant Appropriate training is available to all directors on appointment and information.
There is an agreed procedure whereby directors wishing to on an on-going basis as required.
The directors understanding of the take independent advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at business is developed further by a combination of visits to sites in the 25 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance report continued UK and in overseas countries, presentations from local managements Policy on non-audit services and the opportunity to meet with the Companys principal stakeholders Deloitte & Touche LLP, in its capacity as the Companys external and advisers.
auditors, undertakes work that it is obliged or, in the view of the Committee, is best placed to perform.
Such work includes tax-related Board committees services, formalities relating to financing facilities, shareholder circulars, The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees and regulatory matters and work in respect of acquisitions, mergers and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
Nevertheless, to provide safeguards against the objectivity reference of these committees are available for viewing on the Companys and independence of the external auditors being compromised, the website and are described below.
Committee has agreed that, unless there is no other competent and available provider, the external auditors should be excluded from Executive Committee providing the Company with general consultancy and all other The Executive Committee comprises the Chairman, the executive non-audit and non-tax-related services.
directors and key senior managers.
The Committee meets monthly and it is responsible for implementing Group policy, day to day External auditors management, monitoring business performance and reporting on Following the annual review referred to above, the Committee these areas to the Board.
confirms that it is entirely satisfied with the level of fees, objectivity and independence, expertise and resources and the effectiveness generally General Business Committee of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Accordingly a resolution resolution 8 set out Certain routine administrative matters have been delegated to the in the Notice for the reappointment of Deloitte &Touche LLP as auditors General Business Committee which comprises all the executive directors to the Company will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
and meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits set by the Board and subject to those matters Nomination Committee reserved for the Board.
During the year, the Nomination Committee comprised the following members: Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Sir Francis Mackay until Audit Committee 30 June 2006, Peter Blackburn, Peter Cawdron and Val Gooding.
The Audit Committee comprises Peter Blackburn, Sven Kado and is chaired by Steve Lucas who is considered by the Board to have significant Summary terms of reference recent and relevant financial experience.
To carry out a formal selection process of candidates and make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and reappointment Summary terms of reference of executive and non-executive directors for the purpose of ensuring Financial reporting provide support to the Board by monitoring a balanced Board in respect of skills, knowledge and experience.
the integrity of and ensuring that the published financial statements and To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the suitability any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial of candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director and performance comply fully with relevant statutes and accounting membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
appointment and removal of directors and the recommendation Internal controls and risk management review the effectiveness of of the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are matters reserved the Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems.
Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal audit To remain fully informed about strategic issues and commercial matters programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately affecting the Company and to keep under review the leadership needs of resourced and free from management restrictions, review and the organisation to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors.
The Committee meets as required and met during the year to consider External audit to recommend to the Board for approval by the appointment of a new Chief Executive to replace Michael Bailey, shareholders in general meeting the appointment, re-appointment and whose intention to step down as Chief Executive had been announced removal of the external auditors.
To meet regularly with the external in September 2005.
External consultants were engaged in the search and auditors, to review the scope and results of the annual audit and its cost selection procedure of a suitable candidate leading to the appointment effectiveness and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of Richard Cousins on 2 May 2006.
Richard Cousins duly succeeded of the external auditors.
To satisfy itself that there are no relationships Michael Bailey as Chief Executive on 1 June 2006.
Following the year between the auditors and the Company other than in the ordinary end the Committee, with the assistance of external consultants, course of business.
To agree a policy on the employment of former recommended to the Board the appointment of Sir Ian Robinson as a employees of the auditors and monitor the implementation of such non-executive director and Gary Green as an executive director.
To monitor the external auditors compliance with relevant recommendations were accepted and Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green ethical and professional guidance on rotation of audit partners and will be appointed to the Board with effect from 1 December 2006 and matters relating to fee income and regulatory requirements generally.
Sir Ian Robinson will undergo a customised To review annually and monitor the external auditors objectivity and induction process.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of independence, expertise and resources and the effectiveness of the Association, Richard Cousins, Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green will audit process.
To review the managements response to the findings seek election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting resolutions 4, 5 and and recommendations of the external auditors.
To develop and 6 respectively set out in the Notice.
implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
Remuneration Committee Employee concerns the Committee reviews the Companys The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 28 to 35. arrangements under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting Corporate Responsibility Committee or other matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements The Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, allow proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas, the Company follow-up action.
Secretary, Director of Human Resources and Director of Corporate Policy & Communications.
26 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance report continued The Committees primary responsibilities include: overseeing the Formal risk management procedures have been in place throughout the production of an annual Corporate Responsibility Report, Health, year and those procedures involve on-going analysis, evaluation and Safety and Environmental practices, business conduct, the promotion management of the key risks to the Group.
The Groups system of of employee engagement and diversity and community investment.
internal control, including the mechanism by which the directors routinely review the effectiveness of the system of internal control Disclosure Committee and risk management, includes the following: The Disclosure Committee comprises the Finance Director, the regular meetings of the Board, Executive and Audit Committees, Company Secretary and certain senior managers.
The Committee meets the responsibilities of which are set out above: as required to deal with all matters concerning public announcements semi-annual reviews by the Executive Committee of detailed of the Company and the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules risk management reports prepared by the operating businesses.
and Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Such reports cover key risks and include updates of agreed actions arising from previously reviewed semi-annual reports.
The Executive Relations with shareholders Committee presents its own detailed risk management report to the Compass Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with the Board twice a year: interim results announced normally in May and the preliminary final a process renewed each year with the Board and the Executive results announced normally in late November early December.
The Chief Committee meeting to approve short-term and medium-term Executive and the Finance Director give presentations of these results to strategies followed by regular reviews throughout the year: the Companys institutional investors, analysts and the media in London approval and regular reviews of annual budgets: and other locations.
These presentations may also be accessed on the monthly reviews by the Executive Committee of key financial Companys website www.
The Chief Executive and and non-financial business performance indicators of the Groups the Finance Director maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors operating businesses: on the Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives through strict internal financial controls covering capital expenditure together a programme of regular meetings.
These meetings also serve to develop with post-investment performance reviews and treasury operations: an on-going understanding of the views and any concerns of the clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate delegated Companys major shareholders and are reported regularly to the Board.
authorities for executives throughout the Group: The Board also receives the views of its major shareholders through the Group-wide policies, standards and procedures relating to key publication of periodic reports and surveys by sector analysts and brokers.
business activities: The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other nonregular consideration of Corporate Responsibility matters: and executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on periodic reports and recommendations of the internal audit function.
request and the Chairman will at such meetings engage in discussions relating to matters of governance and strategy as appropriate.
The directors confirm that they have conducted a specific annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk The Annual General Meeting is considered by the Board to be a primary management in operation during the period up to the date of this opportunity to communicate directly with the Companys many private annual report.
The meeting is held normally in February in London and is attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions at the meeting itself and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting together with any related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution together with the level of votes withheld, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands and are made available on the Companys website.
The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations Department at its head office in Chertsey serving as a primary point for contact with investors throughout the year.
Internal control The Company, as required by the UK Financial Services Authority, has complied with the Combined Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code on internal control having established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
In applying the principle that the Board should maintain a sound system of control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets, the Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
It recognises that such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
