22 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Directors report The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Directors indemnities statements for the year ended 30 September 2006.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Activities, results and future prospects Secretary, who is a director of certain subsidiary companies of the The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys articles business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 September 2006 of association in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year and a with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
information that fulfils these requirements can be found in the operations review, the section below entitled Principal risks and uncertainties and Directors interests the financial review which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Details of the interests of the directors holding office at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out Principal risks and uncertainties in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 35.
None of The Board has a pro-active approach to risk management with the aim the directors had any interests in the shares of any of the Companys of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the interests subsidiaries at any time during the year.
None of the directors had a of the Company and its shareholders.
material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
Compass Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level with the Dividends and results business.
A risk assessment exercise is carried out across the Group A final dividend on the ordinary shares is proposed for the year ended each year and the outcome is reviewed by the Board bi-annually.
30 September 2006 of 6.7 pence per share which together with the interim dividend paid on 7 August 2006 of 3.4 pence per share makes a Outlined below is a summary of what the Board considers to be the total for the period of 10.1 pence per share 2005: 9.8 pence per share.
key risks and uncertainties to successful delivery of its corporate Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the 2007 Annual objectives and the activities the Group undertakes to mitigate against General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 5 March 2007 to these key risks and uncertainties: shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 February 2007.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 7 February 2007.
Description Mitigating activities Food safety the Group has in place policies, processes and Payments to suppliers training procedures to ensure compliance with The Groups policy and procedure which is internally rather than externally its legal obligations in relation to food hygiene set in relation to all its suppliers is to settle the terms of payment with and safety.
those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction.
The Group Client retention our business model is structured so that we are not will abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has reliant on one particular sector, geography or client.
supplied the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and People retention and motivation training and development programmes, succession conditions.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by planning and performance management are the Group as at 30 September 2006 was 55 days 2005: 57 days.
designed to align rewards with our corporate objectives and to retain and motivate our best people.
Disposal of assets Health, safety and environment our Safety, Health and Environment Forum SHEF promotes policy, sets standards and monitors On 9 April 2006, the Company announced that it had entered into an best practice and reports to the Corporate agreement to sell Select Service Partner, the travel concessions catering Responsibility Committee.
business, including Creative Host Services in the US for an aggregate Purchasing to reduce risk we are focusing on traceability, clear cash consideration of 1.8 billion.
The sale completed on 15 June 2006. specification of our requirements to nominated suppliers and the improvement of purchasing On 29 November 2006, the Company announced its decision to sell compliance by unit managers.
Selecta, its European vending business.
Litigation though we do not operate in a litigious industry we have in place policies and processes in our major Purchase of own shares countries to mitigate against third-party litigation.
Following the disposal of Select Service Partner referred to above, the Reputation the Groups zero tolerance based Code of Ethics directors have utilised the authority conferred by Special Resolution governs all aspects of our relationship with our stakeholders.
The Corporate Responsibility 14 passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 10 February 2006 Committee investigates any alleged breaches.
to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
It was announced on 9 April 2006 that approximately 500 million of Directors the Select Service Partner disposal proceeds would be returned to Details of the directors of the Company are set out on page 20. shareholders by way of an on-market share buy-back programme.
Richard Cousins was appointed to the Board on 2 May 2006.
During the year 57.7 million ordinary shares of the Company were Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green will be appointed to the Board with purchased and cancelled for a consideration of 149 million and further effect from 1 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 respectively.
Each details are set out in note 25 to the financial statements on page 68. of Richard Cousins, Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green will retire and Following the financial year end, a further 31.3 million ordinary shares they offer themselves for election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
were purchased and cancelled for a consideration of 86 million so Andrew Martin retires from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, that as at 29 November 2006, a total of 89.0 million ordinary shares he offers himself for re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
of the Company had been purchased in the market and cancelled for Peter Cawdron has decided not to seek re-election and he will retire a consideration of 235 million.
from the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Roy Gardner was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005.
Alain The directors intend to continue with the 500 million share buy-back Dupuis, Michael Bailey and Sir Francis Mackay ceased to be directors programme.
It is anticipated that the share buy-back programme will of the Company on 1 October 2005, 31 May 2006 and 30 June 2006 complete over the next 6 to 12 months and accordingly resolution 13 respectively.
Val Gooding will cease to be a director of the Company set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting relating to the with effect from 31 December 2006. purchase by the Company of its own shares will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
23 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Auditors As at 29 November 2006 the Company had received notification of Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: material interests in its issued ordinary share capital and American so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Depositary Receipts ADRs from the following: of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken No.
of ADRs % of issued as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit millions millions capital information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 324.0 15.0 of that information.
Brandes Investment Partners L. P. 95.7 55.0 7.0 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Legal & General Group plc with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. and its subsidiaries 86.5 4.0 UBS AG 65.2 3.1 In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee as Harris Associates L. P. 64.1 3.0 disclosed on page 25 resolution 8, set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting relating to the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche Numbers of shares, ADRs and percentage interests are as at the notification dates.
LLP as auditors to the Company, will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Political and charitable donations Charitable donations for the year amounted to 1,556,000.
There were Annual General Meeting no donations for political purposes but because the full extent of current The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 16 February 2007 UK legislation in this area is uncertain, the directors will seek to renew at 11.00am in the Fleming Room at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference their authority to make such expenditure for a further year.
Accordingly Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice resolution 10 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be setting out details of the business to be considered at the meeting is proposed on a precautionary basis at the 2007 Annual General Meeting sent to shareholders separately with this Annual Report.
By Order of the Board Employees Tim Mason The Group is committed to an active policy of equal opportunity Company Secretary from selection and recruitment, through training and development, 29 November 2006 appraisal and promotion to retirement.
The policy promotes an environment free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation where all employees can receive equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
The policy gives full and fair consideration to the recruitment of disabled persons.
Where disabled persons are employed their training including retraining for alternative work for employees that become disabled and development for promotion are encouraged and assisted.
Expert advice is taken on the needs of disabled employees and special equipment is provided where appropriate.
Group personnel policies ensure that all employees are made aware on a regular basis of the Groups policies, programmes and progress.
Extensive use is made of briefing meetings, in-house magazines, notice boards and other communications channels including Mercury, the Groups global intranet.
Mercury facilitates the capturing and sharing of information and knowledge and provides an important link to the Groups employees worldwide.
The Company operates a range of employee share schemes and they are described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 35.
Environment Information relating to the Groups responsibilities towards the environment is given on pages 12 to 13.
The Group used Trucost PLC to identify the environmental impacts that the Board believes are appropriate for an understanding of its performance.
In Trucost PLCs opinion, Compass Group PLC has now identified the material KPIs that it should report on in future annual reports in accordance with Government guidelines.
