Corporate Governance The Board of the Company is committed to high standards The Board manages the Company through a formal of corporate governance.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include overall management of the Company: approval of strategic This report has been prepared following the demerger of plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the the WH Smith Retail business from the Company on 31 Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital August 2006.
Prior to the demerger, Old WH Smith was the expenditure budgets: approval of the financial statements, holding company of the WH Smith Group and the Board of material agreements and non-recurring projects: treasury Old WH Smith was responsible for the management of the policy: control, audit and risk management: remuneration: Companys activities covered by this report.
The current and corporate responsibility.
It also delegates specic Board was appointed at the close of business on 31 August responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, 2006 and has been responsible for the management of the the role and responsibilities of each Committee being set Companys activities since that time.
out in formal terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary This report describes how the principles of good governance on request.
and best practice as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 the Code has been applied All directors have access to the advice and services by the Board of Old WH Smith during the financial year of the Company Secretary and may take independent ended 31 August 2006.
The current Board intends to operate professional advice at the Companys expense in the in a broadly similar manner for the current financial year.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Board and Committee papers being Having regard to representations made by the Board of sent out several days before meetings take place.
Old WH Smith in respect of the period up to 31 August 2006, the Board confirms that the Company has, except as All newly appointed directors receive induction training on described at the end of this report, applied the principles joining the Board which is tailored to meet the needs of the and complied with the provisions of the Code throughout individual.
The Board of Old WH Smith carried out a formal the financial year ended 31 August 2006. evaluation of its performance in September 2006.
Each director of Old WH Smith completed an extensive The Board questionnaire covering Board and committee procedures On 12 October 2006, the Board comprised the and effectiveness and their own contribution to discussions Chairman, two executive directors and three independent and decision making.
The non-executive directors met non-executive directors.
Short biographies of each of the separately to review the Chairmans performance and directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are provided feedback to him and the Chairman reviewed the set out on page 20.
There is a clear division of responsibility contribution of each of the directors in separate individual at the head of the Company: Brendan Fitzmaurice sessions.
The results of the evaluation were considered by Chairman being responsible for running the Board and the Board of New WH Smith in October 2006.
The Board Mark Cashmore Group Chief Executive being responsible confirms that it intends to undertake a review of its for implementing Group strategy.
Dennis Millard Deputy performance on an annual basis.
The Chairman intends to Chairman has been nominated by the Board as the Senior hold evaluation meetings with each of the non-executive Independent Director.
The Board structure ensures that no directors at least once per year.
individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
The Companys Articles of Association require that at the On 31 August 2006, Brendan Fitzmaurice replaced Robert first three Annual General Meetings following the demerger, Walker as Chairman and, as he was formerly the Managing one-third of the directors shall retire from office but shall be Director of the WH Smith News business, he did not meet eligible for re-appointment.
At each Annual General Meeting the independence criteria set out in the Code.
There were thereafter, any director then in office who has been appointed a number of other changes to the composition of the Board by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting during the year and these are set out in the Directors Report or has held office for three years or more since he was on pages 23 and 24.
All of the non-executive directors who appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in general served during the year and up to the date of this report meet meeting, shall retire and be eligible for re-appointment.
The the independence criteria set out in the Code.
contracts of service of the executive directors and letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for During the year the Board of Old WH Smith met 12 times, inspection at the registered office of the Company during it is proposed that the Board will normally meet ten times normal business hours on any weekday, except Saturdays a year.
and public holidays, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting on 7 February 2007 for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which intends to meet at least three times a year, comprises John Worby appointed Chairman 31 August 2006, Anthony Cann appointed 31 August 2006 and Dennis Millard appointed 31 August 2006, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Mike Ellis Chairman to 31 August 2006, John Barton and Luke Mayhew were members of the Committee until their 25 Smiths News PLC resignations on 31 August 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance The Committees terms of reference, which are available on Remuneration Committee the Companys website and from the Company Secretary on Details of the composition and terms of reference of the request, set out the responsibilities of the Committee, which Remuneration Committee are contained in the Remuneration include monitoring the integrity and clarity of the financial Report on pages 29 to 37. statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any Attendance at Board Committee meetings significant financial reporting issues and judgements which The following table shows the number of Board and they contain: reviewing the consistency of, and any changes Committee meetings of Old WH Smith held during the to, accounting policies, the application of appropriate year ended 31 August 2006 and the attendance record accounting standards and the methods used to account of individual directors.
for significant or unusual transactions: reviewing the Board Committee meetings effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk meetings management systems: reviewing the effectiveness of the Audit NominRemunCompanys internal audit function and approving the internal ations eration audit plan: making recommendations as to the appointment, No.
of meetings 12 5 1 5 terms of engagement and remuneration of the external Robert Walker 12 1 auditors: assessing the external auditors independence, Kate Swann 11 1 objectivity and effectiveness: approving the annual external Alan Stewart 12 audit plan and reviewing with the external auditors the John Barton 10 5 1 5 nature, scope and results of their audit and any issues Mike Ellis 12 5 raised by them: developing and implementing the Luke Mayhew 12 5 5 Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and reviewing MT Rainey 10 4 the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise Robert Walker, Kate Swann, Alan Stewart, John Barton, Mike Ellis, Luke Mayhew concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing and MT Rainey resigned as directors of the Company on 31 August 2006. in financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing.
The Board has met twice since 31 August 2006 and Nominations Committee all the directors attended both meetings.
In addition, The Nominations Committee, which will meet as required, the Remuneration Committee has met twice and the Audit comprises Dennis Millard appointed Chairman 31 August Committee has met once since 31 August 2006.
These 2006, Anthony Cann appointed 31 August 2006 and meetings were attended by all committee members.
Robert Walker Chairman to 31 August 2006, John Barton, Directors remuneration MT Rainey and Kate Swann were members of the Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and Committee until their resignations on 31 August 2006. individual directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 37.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary Risk and internal control on request, set out the responsibilities of the Committee, The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys which include keeping under review the structure, size and system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, composition of the Board and making recommendations with whilst the role of management is to implement the Boards regard to any changes: giving full consideration to succession policies on risk and control and provide assurance on planning: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and compliance with these policies.
Such a system is, however, experience of the Board: preparing a description of the role designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and capabilities required for any particular Board appointment: to achieve business objectives, and can only provide and, identifying and nominating for approval by the Board reasonable and not absolute assurance against material candidates to ll Board vacancies as they arise.
The appointments of Anthony Cann, Dennis Millard and i Risk John Worby on 31 August 2006 as directors of the Company The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for were made following searches conducted by the Company identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks and external consultants and recommendations made by the faced by the Company including those risks relating to Committee.
The Board in appointing Brendan Fitzmaurice as social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was Chairman did not use external consultants given that he was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date previously Managing Director of WH Smith News but did, as of approval of the Annual Report and meets the requirements part of this process, review his other commitments.
of the revised guidance entitled Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
26 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance The key features of the risk management process for the the Board established an organisation structure with financial year to 31 August 2006 were as follows: clearly dened lines of responsibility and approval each business conducted an annual risk assessment controls identifying transactions requiring approval by based on identied business objectives which were the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
The Finance reviewed and agreed by its management board.
Risks Director was responsible for the functional leadership were categorised into strategic, operational, financial and development of the Companys finance activities: and compliance and were evaluated in respect of their there was a comprehensive system for budgeting and potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments planning and for monitoring and reporting the were updated and reviewed quarterly by the risk performance of the Companys business to the directors.
committees within each business and were reported to Monthly results were reported against budget and prior the Business Risk Steering Committee and the Executive year, and forecasts for the current financial year were and Audit Committees: regularly revised in the light of actual performance.
a group wide risk assessment was also undertaken by These cover profits, cash ows, capital expenditure the Group internal audit function, which considered all and balance sheets: areas of potential risk across all systems, functions the Company established a uniform system of and key business processes.
This risk assessment investment appraisal: together with the business risk assessment forms the executive management dened the financial controls basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit and procedures with which each business is required to reports in relation to areas reviewed were discussed comply.
Key controls over major business risks included and agreed with the business risk committees and reviews against performance indicators and exception Audit Committee: and reporting and each business was required to prepare the Group internal audit team met annually with senior monthly management accounts: and executives in order to complete a formal certication of routine reports were prepared to cover treasury activities the effectiveness of internal controls.
These reports were and risks, for review by senior executives, and annual submitted to the respective business risk committee.
reports were prepared for the Board covering treasury Certicates were also provided by each business risk policies, insurance and pensions.
committee to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in conducting its annual review of internal controls in b Non-financial controls compliance with Turnbull guidance.
The Company established a wide range of non-financial controls covering areas such as health and safety, ii Internal control environment, ethical trading, employment and business a Financial controls continuity the effectiveness of which was regularly reviewed The Company has an established framework of internal by the executive management and the Board.
The key financial control, the effectiveness of which was regularly elements for the financial year to 31 August 2006 were reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
as follows: The key elements of this for the financial year to 31 August a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by 2006 were as follows: the Board, including objectives and targets to address the Board was responsible for overall Company strategy, the impact our activities had on the environment, for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, workplace, marketplace and community: for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues determining the financial structure of the Company were dened at Board and operational level: including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, the Company appointed a Corporate Responsibility variances from plan and forecasts were reported to Committee to take responsibility for reviewing performance the Board: in delivering corporate responsibility objectives: the Audit Committee assisted the Board in the annual updates were submitted to the Board on each discharge of its duties regarding the Companys financial aspect of corporate responsibility: statements, accounting policies and the maintenance the Board was committed to maintaining high standards of proper internal financial controls.
The Committee of health and safety in all its business activities.
These provided a direct link between the Board and the external standards were set out in the Companys Health and auditors through regular meetings: Safety Policy which was regularly reviewed by the Board.
the internal audit function advised and assisted business The Risk Management team worked with the business management to establish and maintain adequate financial to assess health and safety risks and introduce systems controls and reports to the Board and Audit Committee to mitigate them.
All notied accidents were investigated on the effectiveness of those controls: and targets were set to reduce the level of incidence: routine financial reviews were held between the Finance the Board approved an Environmental Policy which set Director and business finance directors and other out the Companys objectives and specic targets which executives and their staff.
These were held regularly are reviewed annually: for all businesses: 27 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance the Board was committed to ensuring reasonable Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, standards among its suppliers and approved an Ethical unless a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the Trading Code of Conduct setting out the standards it number of proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is expected its suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health announced.
The proxy gures are made available in writing and safety, child labour, working hours, discrimination at the end of the meeting, announced to the London Stock and the environment: Exchange and published on the Companys website.
the Company was committed to ensuring that its personnel meet good standards of integrity and The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and competence.
The Companys systems cover the concerns of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and recruitment, training and development of personnel, Finance Director update the Board following meetings with an appropriate division of responsibilities and the major shareholders and analysts briengs are circulated to communication of Company policies and procedures the Board.
When requested to do so, the Chairman, Senior throughout the organisation: and Independent Director and other non-executive directors Business Recovery Plans existed to enable the attend meetings with major shareholders.
The Senior business to continue in the event of a disaster with Independent Director is available on request to attend minimum disruption to customers.
Auditor independence Compliance with the Combined Code The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has Throughout the year ended 31 August 2006 the Company adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that has complied with the Code, except as follows: auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys A.
2.2 Chairman relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
Brendan Fitzmaurice does not meet the independence The auditors may only provide such services provided criteria set out in the Code as he was formerly Managing that such advice does not conict with their statutory Director of WH Smith News.
The Board believed that responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee appointing Brendan Fitzmaurice as Chairman was in the Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company best interests of the Company and shareholders as his uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out appointment provided for continuity during this period in the policy.
The fees paid to the Auditors in respect of of transition.
non-audit services are shown in Note 3 to the Accounts.
7.1 Re-appointment of directors Going concern The Articles provide that at the first three Annual General The directors consider that the Company has adequate Meetings following the demerger, one-third of the directors resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
shall retire from office but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis This provision was included in the Articles, as a result in preparing the accounts.
of the demerger, to provide an even spread of director re-appointments and hence not all directors are standing Relations with shareholders for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual report and accounts and the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys website www.
Formal presentations were made as part of the demerger of the WH Smith Retail business and are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in the annual report which is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected to receive electronic communication receive notice of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website.
28 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
