Nomination committee report - The monitoring of the composition of Membership Meetings the Board: The Nomination Committee the Committee The Committee met once during the year - Board succession planning: is comprised of independent non-executive ended 30th September 2006.
Directors and has been chaired throughout - Nomination of Directors for re-election: and the year by P J Manser.
Members of the Main activities of the Committee - A review of the results of the annual Committee are J R K Emly, A W MacDonald The Committee is responsible for the Board performance evaluation and made and W G McQueen.
selection and nomination to the Board of recommendations to the Board.
candidates for directorship and in addition advises the Board on the orderly succession On behalf of the Board for appointment of Directors and monitors the balance of the composition of the Board.
P John Manser In the year under review, the Committee has Nomination Committee Chairman undertaken: 11th December 2006 Audit committee report - Detailed reviews of published annual and Membership Award of Non-audit Assignments interim financial information including to the External Audit Firm The Audit Committee the Committee consideration of the appropriateness is comprised solely of independent During the year,  of accounting policies and material non-executive Directors and is chaired by LLP undertook non-audit work for the assumptions and estimates adopted W G McQueen.
Other members of the Group.
The fees for these services which by management: Committee who served throughout the related principally to taxation compliance - Reviews of managements reports to the year were J R K Emly and A W MacDonald.
Of that Board on risk and internal controls and the amount, 78,000 relates to advice in respect W G McQueen is a Member of the Institute Groups public statements on these matters: of establishing the Longmartin joint venture of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and a - Monitoring the risk and control strategies which was completed in December 2005.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of the Groups principal managing agents Audit fees for the year totalled 100,000. in Scotland.
J R K Emly is a Fellow of the and instructing a programme of periodic Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
The Committee monitors the award of nonexternal reviews where appropriate: audit assignments to the external audit firm.
- A review of the need to establish an Meetings In accordance with the Committees policy, internal audit function: such assignments will only be awarded to The Committee met three times during the - A review of the Groups whistleblowing policy: the audit firm if there is no risk of conflict year ended 30th September 2006.
The Finance arising with their audit independence and Director and representatives of the external - Monitoring developments in accounting and objectivity.
The Committee is satisfied that auditors have been invited to attend each reporting requirements and in particular no assignments awarded this year gave rise meeting.
The Committee considers some the Groups implementation of changes to such a risk and that the overall level of items of business without executives or the arising from the adoption of International non-audit fees in the current year did not external auditors present as appropriate.
Financial Reporting Standards for the compromise the auditors independence or Groups reporting period which commenced performance of their statutory audit Main activities of the Committee 1st October 2005 and the impact of the responsibilities.
Transparency Directive: The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to monitor the framework of financial - A review of the Committees effectiveness: controls, review published financial information On behalf of the Board - A review of the performance and and monitor developments in financial independence of the external auditors W Gordon McQueen reporting.
In addition, it advises the Board concluding in a recommendation to the Audit Committee Chairman on the appointment of external auditors and Board on the reappointment of the auditors their remuneration for both audit and non- 11th December 2006 by shareholders at the Annual General audit work.
In the year under review the Meeting.
The auditors provide annually a Committee has undertaken: letter to the Committee confirming their independence and stating the methods they employ to safeguard their independence: - Monitoring non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors: and - Monitoring  rotation of the audit partner.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 51
