Corporate governance All Directors are required to submit The Board carries out an annual review of its The Board of Directors is responsible to themselves for election at the Annual performance and effectiveness.
The process shareholders for the strategic direction General Meeting following their appointment includes completion by all members of the and management and control of the Groups and thereafter for re-election at three yearly Board of a comprehensive questionnaire activities and is committed to high standards intervals.
Non-executive Directors who have which incorporates the criteria recommended of Corporate Governance in achieving these completed nine years service are required to by the Good Practice Suggestions from the goals.
The Board confirms that the Group has submit themselves for annual re-election in Higgs Report.
The questionnaire addresses accordance with the Companys Articles of composition and function of the Board and complied throughout the year with the Association and the Combined Code.
each of its Committees, an assessment of recommendations of the Combined Code on each Director and the Chairman by his peers.
The Chairman, P J Manser holds a number Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 The results of this appraisal process are of non-executive directorships.
The Board the Combined Code in all respects other considered by the Nomination Committee and considers that the time commitment required than the recommendation that the Board the Board.
The non-executive Directors, led by by his other roles does not impact on his the Senior Independent Director, were should comprise equal numbers of executive Chairmanship of the Group.
None of the responsible for the performance evaluation of and independent non-executive Directors.
executive Directors has taken any nonthe Chairman, taking into account the views The application of the principles contained executive directorship at a FTSE 100 company of the executive Directors.
The appraisal or the chairmanship of such company.
in the Combined Code is described below.
carried out in 2006 did not reveal any aspects The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive of the Boards performance or effectiveness which were considered to be unsatisfactory.
The Chairman is responsible for Composition of the Board the leadership of the Board, ensuring its There is a formal schedule of matters reserved The Board comprised the non-executive effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman, four executive Directors and to the Board for decision which includes, Chief Executive has responsibility for the inter alia, approval of all investment property three non-executive Directors for the year.
management of the Groups day-to-day There were no changes to the composition acquisitions and disposals, refurbishment operations.
A formal statement of the and property management strategies and all of the Board during the year.
Each of the division of responsibilities between the non-executive Directors is considered to be significant aspects of finance.
The schedule Chairman and Chief Executive has been of matters reserved for the Board is independent of the executive management adopted by the Board.
of the Group and free from any business or available on the Groups web site.
other relationship which could materially Functioning of the Board A separate post of Company Secretary was interfere with the exercise of their independent established during the year.
All Directors The Board met five times during the year judgement.
P J Manser was considered have access to the Company Secretary, ended 30th September 2006.
Its function is independent at the date of his appointment who is responsible for ensuring that Board to formulate strategy and monitor and as Chairman in October 2004. procedure, corporate governance, statutory control operating and financial performance.
and compliance obligations are met and if The Board is satisfied with the balance This is achieved through the regular review there were any concerns about the running between executive and non-executive of operations and detailed reports on activity of the Group, that these would be recorded Directors which allows it to exercise within the Groups property portfolio, quarterly in the Board minutes.
Directors may seek objectivity in decision-making and proper financial reporting and forecast up-dates, and independent professional advice at the control of the Groups business.
The Board regular reviews of risks and internal controls.
Groups expense in furtherance of their considers its composition is appropriate in In addition to Board meetings, there is duties as Directors.
view of the size and requirements of the regular communication between executive Groups business and the need to maintain a The Group maintains Directors and Officers and non-executive Directors to ensure the practical balance between executives and Liability insurance of 5 million.
The Board non-executive Directors are fully aware non-executives.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the level of cover during the year of all aspects of the Groups operations.
keeps the composition of the Board and deemed it sufficient.
Non-executive Directors meet periodically under review.
during the year without executive Directors Each of the executive Directors is a member or the Company Secretary present.
of a recognised professional body and is The Chairman is responsible for ensuring expected to act in accordance with the ethical that all the Directors continually update their principles of the relevant body.
The nonskills and the knowledge and familiarity with executive Directors are of high calibre and the Group required to fulfil their role on the contribute wide-ranging business and Board and the Boards Committees.
financial experience to the Boards decision making process.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on page 37 and their terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 41 Corporate governance continued The Board confirms that procedures to Attendance at Meetings identify, evaluate and manage the significant Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 30th risks faced by the Group have been in place September 2006 was as follows: throughout the year under review and up to Audit Remuneration Nomination the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Board Committee Committee Committee The key elements of the Groups procedures Number of meetings in year53 3 1 and internal financial control framework, which are reviewed annually, are: a The close involvement of the executive Attended Attended Attended Attended Directors in all aspects of day-to-day Executive Directors operations, including regular meetings J S Lane 5 - - - with senior staff to review all operational B Bickell 5 - - - aspects of the business.
S J Quayle 4 - - - b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits T J C Welton 5 - - - of authority.
The Board has responsibility Non-Executive Directors for strategy and has adopted a schedule P J Manser 5 - - 1 of matters which are required to be J R K Emly 5 3 3 1 brought to it for decision.
A W MacDonald 5 3 3 1 c A comprehensive system of financial W G McQueen 5 3 3 1 reporting and forecasting.
Financial accounts are prepared quarterly and Board Committees Internal Control submitted to the Board.
Profit and cash flow forecasts are prepared at least The Board has established three committees The Directors are responsible for the quarterly, approved by the Board and to deal with specific aspects of the Groups Groups systems of internal controls and for used to monitor actual performance.
affairs: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
Such systems The terms of reference of these committees are designed to manage, rather than d Regular meetings of the Board and Audit are available on the Groups web site.
The eliminate, the risks faced by the business Committee at which financial information Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each and can provide only reasonable and not is reviewed and business risks are identified and monitored.
Separate reports from the absolute assurance against material Committees are set out on pages 43 to 51. misstatement or loss.
In view of the Groups controls structure summarised above, and on advice from the Executive Directors and staff meet regularly Relations with Shareholders Audit Committee, the Board has resolved to review both the risks facing the business The Group encourages dialogue with all that at the present time there is no need to and the controls established to minimise shareholders at the Annual General Meeting establish an internal audit function.
those risks and their effectiveness in and during the year.
The aim of these reviews is to Committee Chairmen are present at the Going Concern provide reasonable assurance that material Annual General Meeting to deal with any risks and problems are identified and Comprehensive financial forecasts are matters raised by shareholders and all appropriate action taken at an early stage.
prepared at least quarterly and submitted to other Directors are encouraged to attend.
Reports on this review process are the Audit Committee for review.
Based on submitted to the Audit Committee and the the information contained in these forecasts, The Chief Executive and Finance Director Board during the year to enable them to the Directors have a reasonable expectation meet investor representatives frequently to assess the effectiveness of the process and that the Group and the Company have discuss strategic and other issues within the ensure that the Group complies with the adequate resources to continue in constraints imposed by the Disclosure Rules Turnbull Guidance.
operational existence for the foreseeable of the UK Listing Authority.
For this reason, they continue to receives regular reports on these meetings The key risks identified in these review adopt the going concern basis in preparing from the Chief Executive.
processes are summarised in the Business the financial statements.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an alternative channel of By Order of the Board communication with the Board.
Penny Thomas Secretary 11th December 2006 Shaftesbury PL Shaftesbury PL C Annual Report 2006 C Annual Report 2006 page page 42 42
