Governance SEGRO Corporate Governance Annual Report 2006 The Company is required to comply with The Combined Code In addition to meeting its obligations for improving 53. on Corporate Governance the Code which came into effect shareholder value, the Board has a responsibility to the for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Groups customers, employees and suppliers, and to the communities where it develops and invests.
For the Company, this was effective from 1 January 2004 and a revised code was introduced in June 2006.
All these principles and responsibilities are founded upon the basis of maintaining the successful continuity of the business.
Statement of Compliance The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it and The Company believes that, as demonstrated by the information set out in this section and in the Remuneration discusses and makes decisions relating to, but not limited to, strategy and management, structure and capital, financial Report, it has applied the principles, save as indicated below, and complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the reporting controls, internal controls, contracts, communication, Board membership and other appointments, year ended 31 December 2006. remuneration, delegation of authority, corporate governance Mr N M S Rich was appointed Non-Executive Director on matters and policies, significant acquisition and disposals of 1 July 2006 and Chairman on 1 October 2006 and on assets and development approvals.
appointment was deemed independent as per the requirements of A.
Mr P D OrchardLisle The Board delegates authority to the Executive Committee in respect of certain transactions within defined, limited resigned as Chairman on 1 October 2006 and was not deemed independent due to the length of his service with the parameters.
Company but the Board agreed that he should remain as Managing corporate responsibility opportunities and risks are Chairman until his successor was appointed.
fully considered by the Board and overseen by a separate Executive Committee.
The Board The Board of Directors represents the shareholders interests There are the following Board Committees: in maintaining and growing a successful business including optimising consistent long-term financial returns.
The Board Audit is accountable for determining that the Company and its Remuneration subsidiaries are managed in such a way to achieve this Nomination objective.
The Board has a general responsibility to ensure that in good times as well as times of adversity the Executive Membership of these committees is set out on pages 48 is fulfilling its responsibilities.
The Boards responsibility is to and 49. monitor regularly the effectiveness of the Executives policies and decisions, including the implementation and execution of Below is a table of the attendance: its strategies.
Table of the attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Name 11 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings 1 meeting 4 N M S Rich 51 Lord Blackwell 11 3 5 1 I D Coull 11 J A N Heawood 11 1 W E R Hens S LHoward 11351 2 RD Kingston 11 6 M D Lees 6 3 L A MacDonagh 5 Rt Hon Lord MacGregor 51 7 P D Orchard-Lisle 732 1 A W Palmer 10 3 1 C A Peacock 10 5 1 D J RSleath 11 TW Wernink 11 3 1 1 Mr W E R Hens was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007.
He was in attendance for 5 Board meetings during 2006 2 Mr R D Kingston retired from the Board on 31 December 2006 3 Mrs L A MacDonagh was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007 4 Mr N M S Rich was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2006 5 Rt Hon Lord MacGregor resigned from the Board on 16 May 2006 6 Mr M D Lees is resident in the USA and therefore does not travel over for every Group Board meeting 7 Mr P D Orchard-Lisle resigned from the Board on 1 October 2006 www.
com Corporate Governance Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are Directors are encouraged to continually update their 54. available on the Companys website www.
com or on professional skills and capabilities, together with knowledge written request from the Company Secretary as are the terms of the Companys business.
of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors, Chairman On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive and Chief Executive.
introduction to the Groups business including visits to the Groups activities and meetings with senior management.
Chairman and Chief Executive Mr N M S Rich was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2006 All directors have access to the advice and services of the and appointed Chairman on 1 October 2006 when Mr P D Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for Orchard-Lisle resigned as Chairman.
The Chairman has no ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Directors other significant commitments and is not Chairman of any have the right to consult with the Companys professional other FTSE 100 company.
advisers and to seek independent professional advice at the Mr I D Coull was appointed Chief Executive in 2003.
The Board has approved written roles for the Chairman and Performance Evaluation the Chief Executive.
The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Non-Executive Directors Directors.
The Chairman leads this process, assisted by the In addition to the Chairman, there are five Executive Directors, Company Secretary.
The performance evaluation consists including Mr W E R Hens who was appointed to the Board on of each Director completing a wide ranging appraisal 1 January 2007, Lord Blackwell Senior Independent Nonquestionnaire which is based on the process and questions Executive and six other Non-Executives.
The responses to the questionnaire are reviewed by the Chairman and the Board.
The Board considers that the following Non-Executives are independent in both character and judgement and there are There were no major issues identified in the 2006 review.
no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or Some minor adjustments have been made to the operation appear to affect the individuals judgement.
Mr N M S Rich The Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Lord Blackwell Directors standing for re-election at this years Annual Mr S L Howard General Meeting continue to perform effectively and Mr A W Palmer demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Mr C A Peacock Mr T W Wernink Re-election Mrs L A MacDonagh All Directors are subject to periodic re-appointment by the shareholders at three yearly intervals.
Mr P D Orchard-Lisle former Chairman and Mr N M S Rich both held meetings during the year with the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors are appointed and are then subject Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
After two terms of three years there is a rigorous assessment prior to their being proposed.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee comprises Mr N M S Rich, who The level and make-up of Remuneration chairs this committee, Mr S L Howard, Mr A W Palmer and The pay and benefits for Executive Directors, including the Mr C A Peacock, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Chairman, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee has responsibility The Committee comprises, Mr S L Howard Chairman, for making recommendations for new appointments to the Lord Blackwell, Mr N M S Rich and Mr C A Peacock.
Outside consultants give advice to the Committee For Non-Executive Directors, their fees and remuneration regarding searches for potential new Non-Executive Directors.
is determined by the Board on the advice of the Chairman.
The Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and The remuneration of Executive Directors and Non-Executive experience on the Board and prepares a description of the role Directors will be the subject of continual monitoring of and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
comparable companies and the assistance of independent external advisers will be sought from time to time.
Information and Professional Development The Remuneration Report is on pages 59 to 67.
Board meetings are held on a regular basis with some eleven meetings being programmed each year, with additional Accountability and Audit ad-hoc ones being arranged if necessary.
There is an Audit Committee comprising Mr A W Palmer The Board receives timely advice on all material information Chairman, Lord Blackwell, Mr S L Howard, Mr N M S Rich about the Company, its subsidiaries, its activities, and Mr T W Wernink.
performance and its projects, particularly including any significant variances from a planned course of progress.
SEGRO Corporate Governance Annual Report 2006 The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are: 3. the extent to which the financial statements are 55. affected by any unusual transactions in the year and a considering the appointment of the external auditor how they are disclosed and ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate 4. the clarity of disclosures intervals: 5. significant adjustments resulting from the audit b assessing the independence of the external auditor: 6. the going concern assumption c recommendation of the audit fee to the Board and 7. compliance with accounting standards pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services 8. compliance with stock exchange and other legal provided by the external auditor in excess of a fee of requirements 25,000 per assignment and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external 9. reviewing the Companys statement on internal auditors independence or objectives.
For the avoidance control systems prior to endorsement by the Board of doubt, the provision of normal taxation advice is to be and to review the policies and process for identifying regarded as being included within normal audit services: and assessing business risks and the management of those risks by the Company: d discussing with the external auditor, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and m reviewing significant litigation and legal risk if not in the reviewing the auditors quality control procedures and the ordinary course of business : steps taken by the auditor to respond to changes in n reviewing the internal audit programme: regulatory and other requirements: o ensuring that such internal audit function is adequately e overseeing the process for selecting the external auditor resourced and has appropriate standing with the and making appropriate recommendations through the Company: Board to the shareholders to consider at the Annual General Meeting: p approving the appointment or dismissal of the head of internal audit: and f reviewing the external auditors management letter and managements response: q considering such other topics, as defined by the Board.
g reviewing the results of internal audits and management Financial Reporting responses: The Board believes that it presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position h considering managements response to any major and prospects.
external audit or internal review recommendations: Going concern i reviewing from time to time the Companys procedures After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable for handling allegations from whistleblowers: expectation that the Group has adequate resources to j reviewing the assessment and management of risk, continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
including financial, market, operational, legal, regulatory For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern and reputational risks, and reviewing management, basis in preparing the accounts.
internal auditors reports and the comments of the external auditors: Internal Control & Internal Audit The Board is responsible for monitoring and maintaining a k reviewing managements and the internal auditors robust and effective internal controls framework across the reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal Group and for identifying, evaluating and managing the financial control and reporting: Groups significant risks, in compliance with principle C. 2 of the Combined Code.
This framework and system has been l reviewing, and challenging where necessary, the actions developed in compliance with the Turnbull guidance and is and judgements of management, in relation to the continuously reviewed by the Board, who confirm that it has interim and annual financial statements before been in place throughout the year and to the date of this submission to the board, paying particular attention to: report.
The framework and internal controls system are designed to manage but not to eliminate the risk of failure of 1. critical accounting policies and practices, and any the Group to meet its business objectives and as such only changes in them provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 2. decisions requiring a major element of judgement material misstatement or loss.
com Corporate Governance The key features of the internal control framework include: In performing its review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee 56. took into account the following reports and activities: the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority and division of Internal audit reports on reviews of business processes responsibilities: and activities, including action plans to address any identified control weaknesses.
a comprehensive system of reporting, budgeting and planning against which performance is monitored: Managements own assessments of the strengths and weaknesses of the overall control environment in their the formulation of policies and of approval procedures area, and the action plans to address the weaknesses.
in a number of key areas such as treasury operations, capital expenditures and environmental matters.
These External auditor reports on any recommendations for are reviewed from time to time by the Board to confirm improvements in controls or processes identified in the their adequacy and effective operation: course of their work, including the follow-up of previous recommendations.
the provision of a code of conduct for employees and the monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual Risk management reporting, including the status of performance appraisal process: actions to mitigate major risks.
a regular and ongoing risk assessment process, The Board and the Audit Committee monitor managements undertaken at both Group and subsidiary levels which action plans designed to address weaknesses in internal includes identification and evaluation of the likelihood of controls which have been identified as a result of the above key risks materialising and assessment of the controls procedures.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised of and other processes in place to manage such risks: any failings of weaknesses which it regards to be significant.
a Group Risk Committee, with the responsibility to Relations with Shareholders oversee the identification, assessment and management The Chairman, Chief Executive and designated Directors will of all the risks faced by the Group: be the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties.
The Senior an internal audit function, introduced during 2006, with Independent Director will also make himself available to a risk-based programme of work aimed at improving investors.
The Board will be fully informed as to the processes and the controls: and information imparted to shareholders and their reactions.
an annual control self-assessment and certification There are regular meetings with institutional shareholders exercise whereby managers throughout the business held by the Chief Executive and Finance Director which are carry out an assessment of the controls in their area of reported on to the Board.
The Chairman and the Senior the responsibility and certify whether such controls have Independent Non-Executive Director have separate meetings been operating effectively throughout the year.
with institutional shareholders and these are also reported on to the Board.
During the second half of the year an internal audit function was established using an external provider.
The function is Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting managed internally but the scope of work and findings are At the Annual General Meeting investors are given the closely monitored by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The opportunity to question the Board and to meet with them Internal Audit function carries out a programme of risk-based afterwards.
They are encouraged to participate in the reviews to ensure both operating effectiveness of internal Meeting.
controls, but also to assess the design effectiveness of the controls, promoting best practice and consistency across Photographic displays and literature are available to illustrate the Group.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has reviewed the Risk Management effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk For more detailed information on risk management please management.
The review covered all material areas of the refer to pages 18 to 20 in the Operating and Financial Review.
business including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
