Operating and Financial Review continued Environment, Social and Governance 44.
Environmental Sustained change in our The Group take a considered and structured approach to managing our business has demanded even environmental aspects and impacts.
Using our environmental management more from our employees in system to both ensure compliance and to go beyond legal requirements in areas recent years and they have such as energy use, waste management, use of natural resources, pollution constantly responded positively prevention and biodiversity.
We believe that good environmental management is integral to good management of the business.
to the challenge of achieving continually improving business We have a number of KPIs related to our activities and we set annual objectives throughout the Group to both manage and seek continual improvement in our performance and accomplished environmental performance.
We recognise the responsibility we have for sustainable development and will seek ways to minimise damage to the local and global environment caused by our activities.
Our three most significant environmental impacts are energy use, transport and land use.
Climate change and the energy performance of our Renewable energy generation SH&P buildings are issues we have set as a priority to introduce policies and procedures for their long-term management.
Managing these impacts for a positive result is 417 good for the environment.
Employees receive training on managing environmental Electricity Steam 359 impacts and changes in legislation.
Regional management committees have been set up to meet regularly and discuss progress.
We understand our responsibility to future generations to pass on an environment, 244 that is capable of sustaining life, whilst providing employment and prosperity for our stakeholders now and in the future.
Sustainability is an important part of our generic 171 development brief.
Both as developers and in partnership with our contractors and suppliers, we are working towards a whole-life, whole-building approach to sustainable practice.
We work closely with our customers to try to ensure that we can meet their environmental needs and requirements.
2003 2004 2005 2006 We participate in leading external surveys including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good and the Business in the Community Environmental Index.
In 2006 we became a founding member of the UK Green Building Council.
Some of the KPIs that we measure ourselves against are energy use, land use, CO emissions of own office occupation pollution and emissions.
More details are available in our separate Corporate 2 Responsibility Report.
SEGROs own office occupation 238 Our People 216 Our employees are critical to the overall delivery of our business strategy.
207 206 Sustained change in our business has demanded even more from our employees in recent years and they have constantly responded positively to the challenge of 155 achieving continually improving business performance and accomplished what is asked of them.
As our business is changing we involve our people with these changes and as a consequence we have developed a real sense of partnership with our employees.
An employee forum has now been operating for more than two years in order to involve our UK employees in the running of our business and the development of employment standards.
This forum debates everything from the implementation of new employment legislation to the improvement of our office facilities.
We are looking at ways to extend the scope of this forum in the coming year to include 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 our international colleagues.
The graph above shows a drop in CO emissions from 2 This year we conducted our first groupwide Employee Engagement survey, 2005 to 2006, which is largely due to a reduction in employees at Head Office.
Global CO emissions are not although we have been surveying our UK-based employees since 2003.
Employee 2 available for this year due to insufficient unreliable data engagement encompasses more than employee satisfaction, it is the measure of monitoring systems in Europe.
employee commitment to the direction that the Company is taking, how driven Giga Watt hour GWh of energy from Fibre Fuel and biomass are both kgCO sq m net internal area year 2 currently Climate Change Levy exempt 28 143 51 193 104 255 180 237 employees are to assist with the Companys progress since 2004.
Prior to this date, employees received bonuses and whether they will provide the Company with based on a more discretionary system rather than the discretionary effort to help it achieve its goals.
The achievement of stretching performance as measured overall Group engagement score is 57 per cent.
In the through the current structured process, founded on the UK we have seen the level of engagement increase by accomplishment of SMART targets.
To further expand 50 per cent since employees were last surveyed in 2004. this commitment to a performance-based culture, during This is an outstanding achievement given the amount 2006 we trialled the introduction of structured performance of change the Company has gone through and measurement in our French operation and will extend this demonstrates the commitment of our employees to all of our Continental European operations during 2007 to the ongoing success of our business.
and we will commence the benchmarking of salaries.
Reward in Continental Europe will then also be based on Our international operations, in Continental Europe and the delivery of stretching performance accurately assessed the USA, were surveyed for the first time and they against targets and where benchmarking ensures returned an engagement score of 65 per cent.
overall engagement score is particularly satisfying when the average score for companies stands at 51 per cent as Last year we introduced long-term incentive awards to measured on a global basis by Hewitt Associates.
As our employees at manager level, as well as at executive and culture evolves, its important that we continue to develop senior manager levels.
These awards enhance the link and invest in a diverse workforce and the engagement to the delivery of sustained long-term performance and survey results support our belief that we are a business further encourages employees to become shareholders where employees are treated equally.
employees are satisfied that we are a diverse Recruitment and retention of talented employees remains organisation that offers equal opportunities.
Recruitment has been particularly key to Rewarding performance is vital to ensuring that employees ensuring that we are successfully managing the ongoing constantly seek to add value to the business and to our major expansion of our business in Continental Europe.
Employee reward, including salaries and During 2006 we hosted our first Leadership Conference bonus arrangements, are benchmarked annually to for many years, with the aim of improving the way leaders ensure that we remain competitive.
In the UK, bonus of our business work together.
At the conference the arrangements reward all employees who deliver stretching corporate strategy was clearly articulated and then performance at an individual, business unit and Company further developed.
Our leaders were then tasked with level.
These bonus arrangements have been operating Operating and Financial Review continued Environment, Social and Governance continued 46. ensuring the effective communication of our business outstanding achievement.
Not only did this exercise goals and priorities to all employees.
Leadership raise much-needed funds for a worthy cause, but it development is a continuing theme within our business.
united employees behind the fund-raising programme.
During 2006 we have been developing our groupwide People were inspired to come up with new ways of leadership development programme.
This programme is personally raising money with initiatives including two further supported by our Leadership and People Review, yacht racing challenges, a charity golf day, auctions, which helps us to focus on career opportunities for our raffles and sporting events.
This is key to retaining good people and to Looking forward to 2007 we will financially support the assisting with succession planning for our future.
Langley Park project which is a restoration programme 2006 has been a year of sustained progress for the that aims to transform a historic parkland in the Company, which would not have been achieved without Slough area.
the commitment and dedication of our employees.
Further employee volunteering opportunities are being explored including providing employee volunteers to a Communities local charity to build a willow structure for a playground The Group recognises its responsibilities towards its for disabled children.
We also plan to run a Business local communities and believes in the mutual benefits Dynamics programme for senior Executives which is a of improving the quality of life for those communities partnership between local schools and companies to where we operate.
Due to our strong presence in the introduce students to the opportunities and challenges Slough area, we are particularly keen to contribute to of business.
Furthermore, a Seeing is Believing projects in that area, however in 2007 we are looking bespoke programme is being run for our Executive further afield to those areas where we have a significant Committee later in the year, facilitated by Business presence, including the south of England, west London in the Community.
Our community programme includes building long-term Health & Safety relationships with local partners to deliver a shared Health & Safety is one of our highest priorities.
Every objective: establishing strong, safe and healthy year we re-affirm our commitment to ensure safe and communities by investing time and resources into healthy working conditions for our employees and projects that directly address local needs.
We focus on continuous improvement by reporting and recognising safety performance.
Our Our community partnerships are well supported by our Health & Safety policy is available on our website.
employees, many of whom take part in programmes through our Employee Volunteering Scheme.
Our We strive to improve behaviour by encouraging a positive community involvement benefits our employees by safety culture at all our locations, by auditing our safety enhancing their own local community and offering performance, by sharing information and best practice significant personal development opportunities making at our locations, by improving communication on safety SEGRO a company for which they are proud to work.
issues throughout the Group and by active involvement of our senior executives.
In 2006 we continued to support the Princes Trust and the Outward Bound Trust and also helped a local school The KPIs that we measure ourselves against include to achieve specialist status.
This local school also work related fatalities, the accident incident rate and benefited from our donations to the Outward Bound the number of instances of non-compliance with Trust as a group of students received funded places on Health & Safety regulations.
one of the Trusts residential courses in mid-Wales.
Charitable giving Other supported projects include Slough Activate and Pitstop, two local Slough projects that help children and cash and in kind Accident Incident Rate young adults who have been or are in danger of being excluded from mainstream education.
In Belgium we supported a group of young musicians, led by the clarinettist Vlad Weverbergh, to help them produce a classical music CD featuring works by Mozart written for the clarinet.
Our chosen charity for 2006 was Barnardos, where employees initially pledged to raise 30,000.
This target was increased during the year to 50,000 and the final 2004 2005 2006 2005 2006 amount raised totalled 120,000 including 60,000 of SEGROs reportable Accident Incident Rate decreased in 2006 from 2005. matching funds from the Company, which was an 525,000 627,914 617,209 2,515 1,970 SEGRO Annual Report 2006 Suppliers Executive Responsibility & Stakeholder Engagement 47.
We work with a large number of suppliers ranging from The Responsibility Committee sets and publishes annual property managers to building contractors.
Managing targets for all our main impact areas.
Safety, health and supplier relationships to the benefit of both parties environmental matters are the responsibility of our requires regular and consistent attention.
Chief Executive and systems are implemented by our managers.
Workplace issues, including diversity, equal A responsible procurement policy has been developed opportunities and human rights are managed by the and is being piloted in the UK before being rolled out to HR Director.
Market issues, including customer relations the Group.
We aim to ensure that our suppliers adhere are managed by business support teams.
Supply to this policy and that best practice and innovation is management is overseen by a Procurement manager constantly reflected.
who works with our suppliers through a supplier evaluation, selection and performance appraisal system During 2006 we developed a Code of Business Ethics which ensures minimum standards of supplier which extended to our relationship with suppliers.
We are performance and social and environmental performance.
committed to strengthening our marketplace relationships Community sponsorship and community relations are which depends on our reputation for conducting all the responsibility of the Company Secretary.
aspects of our business with suppliers in a way that is mutually beneficial as well as open.
The Group aims to Furthermore, the Responsibility Committee leads the develop relationships with its suppliers based on honesty, development of the CR framework and other senior fairness and mutual trust.
We undertake to pay our managers are responsible for CR management within suppliers in accordance with agreed terms.
the confidentiality of all information concerning the relationship between the Group and our suppliers.
Where The common platform that supports this effort includes practicable, we favour suppliers demonstrating socially our CR policy which provides the framework for and environmentally responsible behaviour and high understanding and managing the opportunities and standards of ethical behaviour.
We also check, where challenges associated with our CR agenda.
practicable the business practices of contractors and In line with our commitment to leadership by example, agents working on our behalf for compatibility with this we are aiming to integrate CR into our leadership Code or seek adherence to similar codes.
Targets have been set for 2007 to develop a phased We strive towards effective communication with all engagement plan with suppliers to ensure that our stakeholder groups through satisfaction surveys, sustainability is embedded in the supply chain as much benchmarking exercises, one to one meetings, as is practical.
conferences, audits and our corporate website.
Governance and Corporate Responsibility Outlook At SEGRO governance and corporate responsibility CR We are looking at focusing on developing key is fundamental to the way in which we do business.
This performance indicators KPIs in other areas of social means we are continually trying to achieve the highest responsibility.
We have much work to do to improve possible safety standards, treat our employees, suppliers CR-related activities across the Group and we are and the communities where we operate as long-term beginning processes to develop a common platform for partners whilst considering the environmental impact formally capturing local information at an international of what we do.
level which will improve our reporting requirements.
We aim to behave ethically and manage risk strategically.
We have processes for identifying, evaluating and managing all risks in accordance with best practice.
A Business Ethics Code has been introduced and applies to all areas of our business and strengthens our commitment to integrity and responsible business practice.
Our fourth summary CR report is available on our website along with more detailed information on our approach to CR.
A full list of our targets for 2007 is also available on our website.
In 2006 we held a CR key impact workshop which helped us to identify our key impact areas and will provide the business with the framework to focus on more long-term visionary targets.
