Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 63 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2006 Corporate governance, risk management and approach to social, environmental and ethical SEE issues Workspace Group aims to operate with high standards of corporate Risk management governance and wherever possible comply with the provisions of the The Board regularly reviews the Groups activities with a view to Combined Code.
It believes that good governance is assisted by confirming that all sources of risk are identified.
For all risks transparent detailed reporting and that strong and sustainable long recognised, not addressed by the financial controls described in the term economic performance is aided by compliance with best Report of the audit committee see page 67, it has established a practice in corporate social responsibility CSR.
In this the Group programme of management, monitoring and reporting.
This includes publishes a range of material both on its website and in hard copy a formal Risk Committee comprising an executive director and four for details see page 84 including: senior staff, which assesses and reviews risks to the Group, identifies programmes to reduce the risks and reports regularly on this to the 1.
An annual CSR review which this year has been expanded in a Audit Committee.
An analysis of the risks identified by the Board and Sustainability Report to cover the implications of the London Plan a summary in the form of responses to frequently asked questions for the Groups strategy and approach to sustainable development: may be found in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website see page 84 or is available from the Company Secretary at the 2.
A self-assessment checklist identifying compliance with each of Groups registered office.
the detailed requirements of the Combined Code: The following commentary addresses some of the principal 3.
Quarterly reports: operational risks affecting the Groups business.
Through its focus on cash flow, the Groups day-to-day procedures in the letting and management of its properties control much of the The above material is complementary to this statement of compliance operational risk associated with its business.
The commercial risk with the Combined Code, which the Group is required to publish.
that the Group carries derives principally from its customer profile.
The Group invests in accommodation let generally to smaller businesses which have a weaker covenant.
This has traditionally been Overall compliance with the Combined Code perceived as a high-risk activity.
However, the Group has over 4,000 Except in one respect, the directors believe that the Group has fully customers and receives in excess of 9,900 enquiries for space per complied with the Combined Code during and after the year ended annum.
Its exposure, therefore, to any single customer or business 31 March 2006.
The single exception concerns the composition of the sector is low.
The Group has four executive directors, three independent non-executive directors, and a non-executive chairman.
The The letting risk is better assessed against the dynamics of the SME Chairman is not regarded as independent under the Combined Code sector in the areas in which the Group operates, rather than in even though, prior to his appointment in November 2002, he had no relation to the fortunes of any one or group of customers.
The SME relationship with the Group.
The Code advises that for FTSE 250 sector is resilient, growing and recognised as important by all companies the number of independent non-executives should at political parties.
The properties held by the Group are generally ideal least equal the number of executive directors.
For such compliance for long term use by SMEs whose space requirements are generally by Workspace, this would mean either reducing the number of simple.
Our buildings are also less prone than many to obsolescence, executive directors or appointing another independent non-executive to change in technical and technological requirements and fashion.
Given the selection process for non-executive directors described below and that the Board itself regards the Chairman as Day-to-day management of the Groups operations, including letting independent, the Board feels the balance of skills and experience of and property and financial management, follows simple but carefully the four non-executive directors as shown below is right for the constructed processes.
The high numbers of customers coupled with Group.
At this stage therefore, the Board does not intend to appoint a high churn rate generate high volumes of activity.
These demand a further non-executive director, although this matter will be kept responsive systems and procedures.
Through regular routine under review.
reporting of key performance indicators, the Group is able to monitor developing patterns in its estates and respond swiftly.
Board and committee reports These may be found on page 66.
The commercial risks of the business are not the traditionally perceived property risks but more akin to those taken by a business-to-business Performance evaluation service provider delivering services to the SME sector.
Unlike most The Board reviews its performance and modus operandi and that of service providers, however, Workspace Group receives payment for each of its committees annually each Committee having in turn these services in advance.
By contracting with its customers for fixed reviewed itself by reference to the needs of the business and required regular payments, made in advance and often further secured by a governance standards.
Included in this review is consideration of deposit, the Groups financial risk is greatly reduced.
individual directors performance which in the case of the executive directors is undertaken as part of the wider performance appraisal Customers are subject to post entry and exit interviews.
Consultation process applied to staff across the entire Group and a review of the meetings are held on major issues, together with occasional focus performance of the Board as a whole including its delegations, risk groups.
Annual customer surveys are undertaken and customer assessment and management processes, reporting procedures and comments cards provided at all properties.
A complaints register is effectiveness in monitoring performance and developing strategy.
Workspace Group commissions ongoing research into The Boards reviews of itself, its committees and its members the SME market to identify emerging needs.
conducted in the last year identified no significant weaknesses or deficiencies.
Further, it is the policy of the Board to consider the The level of occupancy at which the Group breaks even has been in continuing suitability of all directors who are offered for re-election the range 5560% throughout the last five years.
With current overall and review whether their continued contribution would be of benefit occupancy of 84.3% and a lowest level of 75% during 1991, the last to the Group.
Such a review has been undertaken this year over significant economic downturn, the Group has substantial resilience the proposed re-appointments of Tony Hales and Bernard Cragg, to changing economic circumstances.
the review concluded their positive continued effectiveness and commitment to the role.
Meetings are held between the non-executive With the focus of its activities in London, the Group's exposure to directors without the executives present usually before the full Board the fortunes of the city is significant and this years separate meetings and meetings between the non-executive directors without CSR Sustainability Report expands on this.
The Board agrees with the the Chairman present, to review the Chairmans performance and majority of commentators who consider that the long term prospects are held at least annually.
for London and for its SMEs, remain better than those for the remainder of the UK, and so believes that this risk is greatly outweighed by the opportunities it creates.
Its customer base within this region remains broadly distributed with no reliance on any single trading sector.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report 64 Workspace Group PLC reporting and Accounts 2006 The key financial risk carried by the Group is its exposure to interest Reports on these matters have been made available to CB Richard rate variations.
These are managed in two ways.
Firstly, through its Ellis for the purposes of the valuation.
Potential contamination by investment in relatively higher yielding properties and its focus on customers is avoided by management of their activities or where the management of the returns from these properties, the Group risk is not manageable, exclusion from occupation.
maintains high levels of interest cover.
Notwithstanding a gearing level of 85% based on adjusted net assets employed at 31 March 2006, Secondly, the Groups intensive style of management and the risk the interest on these borrowings was covered 1.84 times excluding management programme undertaken jointly with the Groups valuation surplus.
The Group further safeguards its position by use of insurers, Norwich Union, seeks to assist current customers in instruments to manage interest rate exposure.
At 31 March 2006 54% recognising and preventing health & safety, pollution, fire and other of the Groups debt was subject to hedging either through fixed rate risks.
In addition, the Group makes significant efforts to work with borrowings or through the use of interest rate collars.
its customers in order to raise their own awareness and find ways of mitigating their impacts through partnership agreements.
Workspace recognises the importance of its suppliers in providing Examples of these include: a quality service to its customers.
All suppliers are subject to an approval process which extends to identification of their the introduction of centralised waste recycling contracts and environmental and safety policies.
At the year end the Group had over distribution of educational material on waste management: 400 approved suppliers, of which 69% are based in London.
The Group aims to use its customers as suppliers where they are the promotion of cycling initiatives for properties, particularly competitive in price and quality.
Some 7% of approved suppliers are those located within the congestion charging zones: also customers.
The Group aims to settle all accounts within credit terms whenever possible.
The Group continuously seeks to find ways the purchase of electric cars for use by both staff and customers of improving the efficiency and performance of its supply chain.
This year we have introduced a supplier scoring system, and we are prioritising sectors where more or better suppliers are needed.
Workspace is fully committed to supporting sustainability in the operation and development of its portfolio and has adopted clear guidelines in communicating with and instructing its contractors Social, environmental and ethical SEE issues and consultants.
Workspace Group has long since taken its responsibilities to the environment and wider society seriously.
Such aspects are Standard appointments for design consultants require them to considered to be part of the Groups core operating philosophy and apply principles of whole life costing in order to identify the most are integrated within its standard operational procedures.
Indeed environmentally sustainable and financially viable design social, environmental and ethical issues are addressed quite simply solutions for the building: by the nature of the Groups activities recycling old redundant buildings to provide attractive accommodation packages for small On all major building contracts over 250,000 it is required that businesses, whilst providing a service support infrastructure for these contractors employed are committed to recycling waste materials small business customers.
and providing tangible certified evidence to support this: As with all other risks, the Board has nominated a director the Chief An evaluation of renewable energy, energy saving and sourcing of Executive with specific responsibility for management of the Groups sustainable and non-hazardous products and materials is made exposure to environmental and broader CSR risks.
The Board has on major building projects to optimise expenditure and value identified and assessed the significant risks to the Groups short and engineer solutions.
long term value arising from SEE matters, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate response and The Group considers that CSR and environmental polices should be these risks are monitored regularly at Board level.
The Board founded not just on avoiding recognised unacceptable practice but receives adequate information to make this assessment and account on active implementation of policies and practices that benefit the is taken of SEE matters in the training of directors.
In recognition of the importance of its customers in the ensured that the Group has in place effective systems for managing arts and media sectors, the Group has introduced a creative and significant risks, which, where relevant, incorporate performance cultural policy, details of which can be found on our website.
management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives.
Local community involvement and investment is encouraged at all managed sites, in the belief that this continues to reinforce the The Groups commitment to SEE risk management operates on both Workspace Group brand and maintains competitiveness through a short and a long term horizon.
Employees are encouraged to take appointments to agency boards via a Staff Volunteering Policy and Short term SEE risks and opportunities the Company supports charitable initiatives where these assist There are two elements to the Workspace Group approach: customers e. g. cycling campaigns and art theatrical productions.
Workspace prefers to assist through gifts in kind rather than cash Firstly, careful identification of significant environmental and social since it considers that these can often be of greater direct assistance.
These frequently relate to the activities of the Groups Where it undertakes development activities, Workspace Group PLC customers rather than those within its own direct control.
engages with customers and the local community over its plans.
Examples include: Given its focus on the smaller business community and thereby the land or water contamination on site: community at large, the Group is keenly interested in managing its public profile to avoid brand damage.
This extends not just to health & safety or crime incidents: community relations but to the operation of codes and standards of conduct by its staff that would not risk damage to its reputation.
transport related impacts and congestion charging: The Groups Code of Conduct for employees prohibits the receipt or payment of any bribes or facilitation payments, and requires all environmental taxation such as landfill tax or the climate employees to operate within the law.
A Whistle blowing Policy and change levy.
Helpline exist to enable staff to report perceived breaches of the Code of Conduct.
Proposed acquisitions and existing property holdings are investigated carefully including identifying the risk of flooding and the potential This year, the Group will be publishing its seventh consecutive annual extent of contamination from existing or previously undertaken CSR report entitled Sustainability Report 2006.
In previous reports of activities on-site.
These studies have identified that almost all the Workspaces Responsible Approach to Society, we used the term Groups properties are unlikely to suffer from flooding or CSR to refer to the economic, social and environmental impacts contamination and that, at those properties where the risk was higher, relating to operational matters.
This year we have chosen to look for this was unlikely to give rise to damage and any associated liability.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 65 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2006 the first time towards our external environment and the key challenges demonstrates significant opportunities for increasing density and it represents.
As a result, we have changed our terminology from intensifying uses through further development opportunities, thereby CSR to Sustainability synonymous with Sustainable Development.
providing much needed housing and other uses, whilst Our approach is still underpinned by an annual target-setting and simultaneously adding value to the portfolio.
Workspace Group PLC review procedure with responsibilities allocated across the senior also seeks to future proof its properties by ensuring that they management team.
Progress against the annual targets is formally integrate efficient technologies and materials with low embodied audited by our third party advisors.
Previous CSR Reports and annual energy to safeguard against obsolescence or depreciation as energy reviews of progress against targets can be obtained from the Company prices continue to rise.
Workspace Group PLC is currently Secretary at the Groups registered offices or from the Groups website participating as a key member in a new BPF Carbon Trust Project see page 84.
Group looking into energy and CO2 assessment, with the intention of producing a list of the top ten changes that can be made to buildings to reduce their carbon emissions.
Specific example research, Long term SEE risks and opportunities complemented by Workspaces internal annual monitoring, is Workspace Group PLC seeks to achieve long term sustainable intended to highlight action areas for tangible savings in specification growth.
SEE issues, and how they are handled, underpin this.
and operation, both by Workspace and its customers.
Moreover, clear identification of these issues provides longer term opportunities for the Groups expansion within the London area.
As By providing SMEs in London with accommodation at affordable and such, Workspace is conscious of the need for it to identify changes flexible rates, Workspace is making a significant contribution to occurring in London in its economy, population and employment: in Londons ongoing economic growth particularly as a large the environmental challenges: and in life styles and technology and proportion of its customers are in rapidly growing sectors such as to plan accordingly.
In 2006, the Group has undertaken a review of its creative and green industries.
Contributing to Londons status as a own business impacts in relation to the key objectives within the world class city will in itself ensure that Workspaces customer base Mayors London plan.
This has served to identify ways in which the continues to grow as it attracts growing numbers of entrepreneurs business is already contributing to economic, environmental and and SMEs needed to provide services to the Capitals economy.
social well-being in the Capital, and to respond to major challenges so as to safeguard long-term sustainability.
The findings of this review are captured in the 2006 Sustainability Report.
Shareholder contact Meetings are held with principal shareholders following both the Workspace Groups work with Investment Property Databank IPD announcement of the Groups preliminary and its interim results.
shows that its historic property returns have been in the top quartile It is the practice of the Company that, ordinarily, meetings with of the property sector on a consistent basis.
Looking forward, the shareholders will be attended by executive directors alone or Groups recent work with Upstream and Property Market Analysis accompanied by representatives of the Companys stockbroker.
PMA using the third dimension analysis shows that the relative long However, it is the Companys practice also, following the preliminary term strength of the financial returns from our portfolio is delivered results, that such contact meetings shall be followed up by a in conjunction with a very positive sustainability profile.
The graph telephone conversation between the Chairman and the shareholder.
below shows the overall position of the Workspace Group PLC The Company also requires its stockbrokers to discuss the outcome portfolio white dot in relation to the other portfolios in the analysis of meetings with shareholders and report its findings to the Board.
which examined 38 portfolios exceeding 37.5bn of property The Board believes that this provides a better form of governance investment.
It demonstrates that the Workspace portfolio is distinct than attendance at meetings by non-executive directors.
Other from all the other portfolios analysed, being the only one to combine ad-hoc meetings and presentations and site visits are arranged high forecasted returns with strong sustainability characteristics.
It is for shareholders throughout the year.
In addition, each year a dinner these characteristics of high performance and sustainability that we is held with principal shareholders which the full Board attend.
seek to build on, and that underpin our policies and procedures for This has been found by both the Board and shareholders to be an managing longer-term SEE risks.
effective means by which the entire Board may be accessed by major shareholders.
Dialogue with the wider investment community is 100% of Workspaces developments are on brownfield land as they supported by the Company.
During the year Board members consist of redeveloping old disused buildings and bring them back to presented at investor conferences and participated as noted earlier life.
This is likely to enhance the Groups chances of gaining planning with Upstream and Property Market Analysis PMA in developing permission as the spatial development strategy for London seeks to with other investors an analysis tool that brings together the two accommodate growth within existing boundaries and avoid conventional dimensions of portfolio performance total return and encroachment on open spaces.
Workspaces portfolio also risk with a third dimension, sustainability.
If shareholders have any views on how the Groups practices may be improved further in the areas identified in this report then we will be pleased to receive them.
Please address any such comments to the Company Secretary or, if appropriate, the Chairman or senior The sustainable returns of Workspaces portfolio Source: Upstream PMA The Third Dimension research 2005 independent non-executive director.
R Mark Taylor Company Secretary 12 June 2006 More Normalised Less sustainable sustainability score sustainable Lower Risk Higher forecasted adjusted forecasted returns returns returns
