CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19 Corporate governance 1 COMPLIANCE DIRECTORS The company recognises the importance of and The Board of Directors is the body responsible is committed to attaining the highest standards for corporate governance and for establishing of corporate governance.
It is a requirement of the policies and strategies of the company.
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority that The Board consists of the Chairman, three listed companies disclose in their annual report Executive Directors and three Non-Executive and accounts how they have applied the Directors.
Biographies of the Directors are set principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined out on pages 15 and 16.
Code on Corporate Governance published It is the opinion of the Board that all of the three in June 2006 the Combined Code and Non-Executive Directors are considered to be whether or not they have complied with its independent of management and have no business detailed provisions throughout the financial year.
or other relationship which could interfere During the financial year ending 31st October materially with the exercise of their judgement.
2006 the company complied fully with the Each of the Executive Directors service principles and provisions set out in Section 1 contracts contains a notice period of a of the Combined Code except, that until 31st maximum of one year.
The maximum notice March 2006 when Mr J Callcutt resigned as period under each Non-Executive Directors Deputy Chairman, the company did not comply letter of appointment is also one year.
3.2 of the Combined Code in that less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent Non-Executive Directors.
each have a letter of appointment expiring as follows: Section 1 of the Combined Code contains fourteen main principles of good governance Mr J W Matthews On 6 months notice which are divided into four main categories.
Chairman These categories and the means by which Mr R S Lidgate 30th April 2009 the company has complied with them are explained opposite.
Mr R T Scholes 30th June 2009 Mr L J Wigglesworth On 3 months notice Senior Independent Director REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 It is a requirement of the companys Articles of BOARD COMMITTEES Association that each Director should offer himself The Board has established the following for re-election every three years.
The Articles Committees, the members of which are set out similarly stipulate that any Director appointed by below.
Details of all the Directors experience the Board is also required to offer himself for and qualifications are set out on pages 15 and 16 re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual and their remuneration on pages 24 to 34.
General Meeting after such appointment.
All members of the Board are equally accountable AUDIT COMMITTEE under the law for the proper stewardship of the Mr R T Scholes Chairman companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors Mr R S Lidgate are, however, independent of management and Opposite Mr L J Wigglesworth 1 free from any material business or other The Arboretum, relationship with the company, enabling them The Audit Committee meets four times each Napsbury Park, near St. Albans, to bring an independent judgement to bear on year and provides a link between the Board and Hertfordshire issues brought before the Board.
There is a clear the companys internal and external auditors on division of responsibility between the Chairman, matters coming within the scope of the group Mr J W Matthews, and the full time Chief audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Executive, Mr S Stone, to whom the Board has is a chartered accountant.
The main duties delegated responsibility for running the company.
of the Audit Committee are as follows: The Board meets regularly on a formal basis To review all Preliminary and Interim and has an agreed schedule of matters reserved statements before they are presented to it for collective decision.
These include to the Board strategic policies, corporate performance To review internal control procedures and risk reviews and overall financial and organisational management systems control.
In addition, the Board meets outside To review the internal audit function of its agreed schedule as and when required.
To oversee the company's relations with the It is supplied in a timely manner with external auditor and to approve the terms information in a form and of a quality that is of engagement and the remuneration to be appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
paid to the external auditor in respect of audit services provided The Board evaluated its performance in 2006 To recommend to the Board a policy in by the completion of an evaluation questionnaire respect of the provision of non-audit services the results of which were discussed.
provided by the external auditors to ensure The Chairman formally appraised the Chief their independence and objectivity is not Executive in the year.
impaired The Non-Executive Directors meet separately During the year the Committee carried out its with the Chairman during the course of the year.
Particular attention was The Non-Executive Directors also meet without paid to the implementation of International the Chairman at least annually to appraise the Financial Reporting Standards and other Chairmans performance.
accounting standards and policies in the review A formal procedure exists to allow Directors of the financial statements.
Under internal to take independent professional advice and the control procedures and risk management company will meet such reasonable expenses systems both financial and non-financial that arise in taking such advice.
All Directors controls were assessed, improvements were have access to the company Secretary for his identified and are being implemented.
advice and services, and training is available The internal auditor's reports and the internal for new and existing Directors, as and when audit programme were reviewed together with required.
Each member of the Board also has management's response to the internal the benefit of appropriate insurance cover and auditor's findings and recommendations.
the indemnity in Article 34 of the companys Articles of Association in respect of legal actions brought against him.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 The Committee recommended to the Board Directors are advised of the time commitment a continuation of the policy regarding the considered necessary to enable them to fulfil provision of non-audit services.
There is a formal approved the recommendation, which is not induction process for new appointees.
to use the external auditors for non-audit The terms of reference of the Committee are services with the exception of tax advice and published on the companys web site matters where the fee will not exceed 50,000 www.
com in aggregate per annum unless specifically approved by the Committee.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE for audit and non-audit services are set out Mr S Stone Chairman in Note 3 on page 49.
Mr P Callcutt Mr D P Darby The Committee does not become involved in the Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary day to day running of the business, which remains Mr N C Tinker Appointed 28th March 2006 the responsibility of the Executive Directors.
Mr S Usher The terms of reference of the Committee are The Committee meets regularly throughout the published on the companys web site year and acts in an advisory capacity in the www.
com creation and implementation of policy, trading strategies and the taking of major decisions.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Mr R S Lidgate Chairman BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT Mr R T Scholes COMMITTEE Mr L J Wigglesworth Mr S Stone Chairman The Remuneration Committee meets at least Mr P Callcutt three times each year, to establish and review, Mr D P Darby in consultation with the Chief Executive, Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary the remuneration and terms of employment Mr N C Tinker Appointed 28th March 2006 of the Chairman, Executive Directors and certain Mr S Usher senior executives.
The fees for the NonThe Committee meets regularly throughout Executive Directors are decided by a Committee the year and its objective is to achieve the of the Board comprising the Chairman, continuous improvement of the groups business Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The terms of reference of the Committee are published on the companys web site www.
com COMMITTEE FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Mr J Callcutt Chairman, resigned NOMINATION COMMITTEE 31st March 2006 Mr J W Matthews Chairman Mr S Stone Appointed 23rd January 2006, Mr S Stone Chairman from 1st April 2006 Mr R S Lidgate Mr R S Lidgate Mr R T Scholes Mr L J Wigglesworth Resigned 23rd January 2006 Mr L J Wigglesworth Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary The Nomination Committee meets at least every Mr P Donnelly Environmental Manager six months and as necessary to assess the suitability of persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
Prior to their appointment, all Non-Executive REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 22 The Committee for Social Responsibility is established Audit Committee to whom the external charged with managing the company's ethical, auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the groups Internal social and environmental policies so as to Auditor, report.
The external auditors operate achieve a balance between its commercial procedures to safeguard against the possibility objectives and its obligations to society at large.
that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
This includes the use of independent reviewing partners and annual ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND independence confirmations by all staff.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The auditors report to the Audit Committee on The following table shows the number of matters including independence and non-audit meetings of the Board and each of the Audit, fees on an annual basis.
In addition, the role Remuneration and Nomination Committees held of audit partner is rotated on a periodic basis.
during the year ended 31st October 2006 and the attendance record of individual Directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 4 9 4 Mr J W Matthews 7 N A N A 3 Mr J Callcutt resigned 31st March 2006 3 N A N A N A Mr P Callcutt 7 N A N A N A Mr D P Darby 7 N A N A N A Mr S Stone 7 N A N A 4 Mr R S Lidgate 7 4 9 3 Mr R T Scholes 7 4 9 4 Mr L J Wigglesworth 7 4 9 4 As regards internal control, the Board CHAIRMAN acknowledges its responsibility for the systems The Chairman has significant commitments set up within the group for this purpose and for other than as Chairman of the company reviewing their effectiveness.
They are designed and these are disclosed in his biography on to provide reasonable but not absolute page 15.
The Board is confident that these assurance against material misstatement commitments do not hinder the ability of the or loss.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Chairman to discharge his duties to the Directors and senior management to implement company effectively.
and maintain the groups internal control and risk management systems.
The company complies with the Combined Codes principles DIRECTORS REMUNERATION on internal control reporting and throughout the The Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 34 year has operated the procedures necessary provides details of the Directors remuneration.
to implement the guidance on internal control contained in the Turnbull Report published in September 1999.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A review of the groups performance and financial The group has the following established position is included in the Annual Review.
The framework of internal controls: Board uses this and the Directors Report to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and FINANCIAL REPORTING prospects.
The statement of Directors There is a comprehensive budgeting system responsibilities is shown on page 39 and the with an annual budget and associated three year going concern statement is shown on page 35. plan approved by the Directors.
As indicated above, the company has an CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 23 Actual results are reported against budget and INTERNAL AUDIT revised forecasts of profit, cash flow and The company maintains an internal audit unit balance sheets are regularly prepared and which reports to the Audit Committee.
The company reports to shareholders charged with carrying out examinations and on a half yearly basis.
investigations which assist in providing the Audit Committee with reasonable assurance of: compliance with established policies and OPERATING UNIT CONTROLS procedures Controls and procedures, including information the reliability and integrity of information systems controls, are detailed in policy and the safeguarding of assets and the procedure manuals which are subject to periodic economical and efficient use of resources review.
The Authority Manual which was revised and updated in the year details the general principles of and specifies the limits arising from RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the delegation of authority within the group.
Day AND THE MARKET to day control is exercised by the members of The company encourages active dialogue with its the Executive Committee see above.
private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director make presentations to analysts following RISK IDENTIFICATION the Preliminary and Interim Announcements.
The group has a Risk Review Committee a subMeetings are also held with major institutional committee of the Executive Committee which shareholders.
A wide range of relevant issues are meets periodically to assess and review the discussed at investor and analyst meetings risks facing the business on an on-going basis including strategy, performance, management and and to ensure that reasonable levels of control corporate governance.
Shareholders are also kept are implemented to address those risks.
At the up to date with company affairs through the Annual request of the Risk Review Committee, a and Interim Reports and the companys website.
detailed reassessment of group-wide risk and Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of related controls was undertaken and completed the Board attend the Annual General Meeting in the year by senior management.
The results which is used to communicate with private of this process have been reported to the Risk investors.
Their participation is welcomed and Review Committee and have been used to drive encouraged through a question and answer a risk focused programme of work, designed to session during the meeting.
improve business processes and increase internal control effectiveness.
Both the Chairman and the Senior Non-Executive Director are available to meet shareholders if requested.
Non-Executive Directors are kept INVESTMENT APPRAISAL informed of the views of shareholders and The group has clearly defined systems for the reports are provided to them on investor and authorisation and control of projects, which are analyst meetings.
The companys financial public set out in a Land Manual.
The key element is relations consultants provide briefings to the the Project Committee a sub-committee of the Board on analyst opinion and compile Executive Committee which is responsible for independent feedback from analyst meetings.
the authorisation of all major projects.
The companys brokers provide briefings to the Board on institutional shareholder opinion and compile independent feedback from meetings CENTRALISED FUNCTIONS with institutional shareholders.
A number of the groups key functions are Approved by the Board of Directors and signed controlled centrally.
These include finance, on its behalf treasury, banking, litigation, taxation, pensions, insurance, information technology, human N I HUGHES resources, health and safety, public relations Company Secretary and company secretarial.
25th January 2007 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006
