Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CORPORATE STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE planning.
The Board as a whole GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company supports the was asked to contribute to the principles of corporate governance consideration of a suitable contained in the Combined Code replacement, and Mr Tucker on Corporate Governance which as Senior Independent Director is appended to the Listing Rules co-ordinated the process of of the Financial Services Authority.
The Board is accountable to the It was determined that knowledge Companys shareholders for good of the sector in which the Company governance.
The Company has operates and continuity were key throughout the year complied with considerations in identifying a the majority of the provisions of the suitable replacement.
After due Combined Code Principles of Good consultation, it was determined Governance and Code of Best Practice.
that Mr Mackintosh, an existing non-executive director and chairman The statements below describe how of the Remuneration Committee the Company has applied the principles should be invited to take the position identified in the Combined Code and of Chairman of the Board.
In arriving areas where the Company is presently at this decision the Board had due working towards compliance.
regard for Mr Mackintoshs independence and his considerable THE BOARD experience in both senior executive As at 29 December 2006, the Board and non-executive capacities in comprised eight members all of whom international technology companies.
served throughout the year, being the The Board had also given due Chairman, Mr John Whybrow, four consideration to Mr Mackintoshs executive directors and three nonexperience and knowledge of CSR, executive directors.
The four executive where he has been a non-executive directors were Mr John Scarisbrick, director since May 2004.
Chief Executive Officer: Mr Paul Goodridge, Finance Director: Mr Mackintosh did not participate Mr James Collier, Chief Technical in the decision to invite him to act Officer and Mr Glenn Collinson, as Chairman of the Board.
The non-executive directors, were The Board discussed with Mr David Tucker, Mr Ron Mackintosh Mr Mackintosh his commitments and Mr Anthony Carlisle.
The Board as chairman designate of is satisfied that an appropriate Northgate Information Solutions plc, balance was in place throughout non-executive director of software the year to enable the Board to company royalblue group plc, perform its responsibilities effectively.
chairman of software company SmartStream Technologies Ltd Mr Whybrow has acted as Chairman and chairman of Differentis, of the Company since its flotation a privately owned IT consultancy in March 2004.
To coincide with the which he co-founded in July 2000. completion of his three year term of The Board is satisfied that appointment, Mr Whybrow indicated Mr Mackintosh is able to devote the in the Autumn of 2006 that he wished necessary time commitments to the to stand down as Chairman and from role of Chairman of the Board.
the Board at a future date, and it was agreed that the Board should take To assist in an orderly handover, steps to identify a new chairman to Mr Whybrow has agreed to remain take the position during 2007. as Chairman until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to The appointment to key positions be held on 2 May 2007 when he within the Company has received will stand down from the Board.
attention as part of succession Mr Mackintosh will assume the role 38 | 39 of Chairman Designate with effect In accordance with the provisions of outside of routine Board business from 22 February 2007 and will be the Combined Code, consideration and the degree of rigour applied appointed as Chairman with effect has been given to the independence to succession planning.
His appointment of all the non-executive directors.
will be for a three year term.
For the The Board considers all the In each of these areas, progress had present, Mr Mackintosh will remain non-executive directors to be been made, with members of senior chairman of the Remuneration independent of management management invited to attend and Committee, but it is the intention and free from any business or other report to the Board on their areas of that he will relinquish the position relationship that could materially responsibility at each board meeting, during the course of the current interfere with the exercise of time allotted to informal meetings of financial year, although he will remain independent judgement.
the directors and a presentation to a a member of the Committee.
He will meeting of the Nomination Committee also continue as a member of the The Board meets regularly during on succession planning across all Nomination Committee and will take the year as well as on an ad-hoc functional areas through to Board the role of chairman of that committee basis as required by time critical level.
The Board was also satisfied with effect from 2 May 2007. business needs.
The Board is that the other areas identified had He will stand down as a member responsible to shareholders for the received appropriate attention.
of the Audit Committee, but may effective and proper management attend meetings by invitation.
and control of the Company and The overall conclusion was that has a formal schedule of matters the Board and its Committees With effect from 4 January 2007, reserved for its decisions.
Its primary were performing appropriately.
Mr Sergio Giacoletto was appointed roles are to determine and review a non-executive director.
As a result Company strategy and policy, The Chairman holds regular of Mr Giacolettos appointment, consider acquisitions and disposals, meetings with all the directors the proportion of non-executive assess requests for major capital individually.
In addition, prior to directors represents half the Board.
expenditure and give consideration the year end, the Chairman held As a consequence of Mr Whybrow to all other significant financial a meeting with the non-executive standing down from the Board in matters.
This process is undertaken directors to discuss the performance May 2007 and Mr Mackintoshs following discussions in conjunction of the executive directors.
appointment as Chairman, the with senior executive management proportion of non-executive directors who in turn are responsible for the In accordance with the Companys will not comply with the Code.
It is day to day conduct of the Groups Articles of Association, all directors the intention of the Board to appoint operations and for reporting to the are required to retire and submit an additional non-executive director Board on the progress being made themselves for re-election at least during 2007. in meeting the objectives.
The Board once every three years.
It is the policy met eight times during the year and of the Board that non-executive Mr David Tucker is the Senior the attendance of each of the directors are appointed for an initial Independent Director.
Mr Goodridge directors is shown on page 43. term of three years, following which has throughout the year been the it will be reviewed and as appropriate, director responsible for health and During the year, as part of its formal extended for a further period not safety within the Group.
The directors business, the Board reviewed a exceeding three years.
Non-executive possess diverse business experience paper prepared by the Company directors should not generally serve in spheres complementary to CSRs Secretary which summarised the for more than nine years.
activities, as well as other sectors.
findings of the detailed Board Biographies of the directors are performance evaluation conducted During 2007 the letters of shown on page 44.
Mr Brett Gladden in 2005 and the actions taken during appointment for Mr Tucker, served as Company Secretary 2006 arising from that review.
Mr Whybrow and Mr Mackintosh throughout the year.
The Board considered each of the have fallen or will fall due for findings and discussed the extent review following the completion The division of responsibilities to which areas which that review had by each of their initial three year between the non-executive Chairman identified as benefiting from attention term of appointment.
and Mr Scarisbrick, CEO is sufficiently had been satisfactorily addressed.
clear in the opinion of the Board This included the opportunity provided The letter of appointment for that it is not required that they be to the Board to meet with senior Mr Tucker has been extended for formally documented.
management below Board level, a 2 year period to 24 January 2009. greater opportunities for the executive As a result of the decision that and non-executive directors to meet Mr Whybrow is to stand down from Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CORPORATE the Board following the Annual General COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD GOVERNANCE REPORT Meeting on 2 May 2007, his existing The Board has three committees, continued letter of appointment which expires in Remuneration, Audit and Nomination.
March 2007 has been extended until During the year, the Chairman and 2 May 2007.
A new letter of appointment non-executive directors were each will be entered into for Mr Mackintosh members of the Remuneration, reflecting his appointment to the Audit and Nomination Committees.
As a result of the amendment made during the year to the Combined On appointment, all directors are Code which allows the Chairman of advised that they have access to the the Board to sit on the Remuneration advice and services of the Company Committee where he is considered Secretary and, in addition, that they independent at the time of are entitled to seek independent appointment, it was decided that Mr professional advice in the furtherance Whybrow should attend the meetings of their duties, if necessary, at the as a member, rather than by invitation.
Mr Mackintosh is presently chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In accordance with the Companys There is no immediate intention for Articles of Association, directors are Mr Mackintosh to relinquish this role, granted an indemnity from the notwithstanding that he will be taking Company to the extent permitted by on the role as Chairman of the Board law in respect of liabilities incurred as with effect from 2 May 2007.
It is a result of the performance of their however the intention of the Board duties in their capacity as directors to keep this matter under review to the Company.
The indemnity in connection with the intention of would not provide any coverage to the Board to appoint an additional the extent that a director is proven to non-executive director during 2007. have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged Mr Whybrow remained a member insurance coverage in respect of legal of the Audit Committee throughout action against the directors and officers.
This was considered appropriate in view of his experience COMMUNICATIONS WITH in similar roles in other companies SHAREHOLDERS and the contribution he provided Principally via the executive directors, to the business of the committee.
the Company seeks to build on a With effect from 4 January 2007 mutual understanding of objectives and the appointment to the with its major shareholders through Audit Committee of Mr Giacoletto, regular meetings and presentations Mr Whybrow has stood down as following announcements of each a member of the Committee but quarters results.
The Senior may continue to attend meetings Independent Director, Mr David Tucker, by invitation.
In accordance with is available to meet institutional the Combined Code, the duties shareholders should there be of the Committees are set out in unresolved matters they wish to formal terms of reference.
These bring to his attention.
During the year, are available from the Company Mr Mackintosh met with shareholders Secretary and can be found on the to discuss the policies of the Companys website, www.
Although Membership of the Committees is the non-executive directors are not shown on page 44.
The Company asked at present to meet with the Secretary acts as secretary to each Companys shareholders as a matter of the Committees.
of course, their attendance at the Annual General Meeting is required.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Corporate information is also available Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman on the Companys website, of the Remuneration Committee.
The other members of the 40 | 41 Committee at 29 December 2006 During 2006, the Committee met The Committee is responsible for the were Messrs Carlisle, Tucker and a total of eight times, seven of which development, implementation and Whybrow.
With effect from his were as part of the formal business monitoring of the Companys policy appointment, Mr Giacoletto is of the Board, to discuss the on external audit and for overseeing also a member of the Committee.
appointments of a non-executive the objectivity and effectiveness director and separately on one of the auditors.
The principal function of the occasion to discuss in detail Committee is to establish and review succession planning throughout The Committee recommends the the terms and conditions for the the organisation, which meeting appointment and re-appointment executive directors, and the overall Mr Scarisbrick also attended.
of the Companys external auditors policy framework for the remuneration and considers the scope of their audit of other senior executives and the AUDIT COMMITTEE work, the terms of their appointment, Group as a whole.
The Committee Mr David Tucker is the Chairman their fees and the cost effectiveness met three times during the year and of the Audit Committee.
During 2006, as part of the attendance of its members is members of the Committee at its formal business, the Committee shown in the table on page 43.
29 December 2006 were Messrs met on four occasions with the external Carlisle, Mackintosh and Whybrow.
On two occasions the The report to shareholders on how With effect from his appointment, Committee also held separate directors are remunerated, together Mr Giacoletto is also a member of meetings with the external auditors with details of individual directors the Committee.
The Board is satisfied at which no executive director or remuneration are shown on pages that Mr Tucker, a chartered accountant employee of the Company was present.
49 to 58. with extensive experience through his past and present involvement as The Committee is aware of and has NOMINATION COMMITTEE chairman of the audit committees approved the audit and non-audit Mr John Whybrow is the Chairman of various listed companies, brings services which have been provided of the Nomination Committee.
recent and relevant experience to the by the Companys external auditors, The other members of the Committee.
Mr Whybrow, Chairman Deloitte & Touche LLP during 2006.
Committee at 29 December 2006 of the Board also served on the Those non-audit services concerned were Messrs Carlisle, Mackintosh Committee.
The Board considers advice on tax matters which was and Tucker.
With effect from his this to have been appropriate, considered to be appropriate, given appointment, Mr Giacoletto is also given his experience in other listed their in-depth knowledge of the affairs a member of the Committee.
companies as well as the and financial practices in the Group.
contribution to and the benefit The Committee is satisfied that, The Committee meets as appropriate derived from his participating in notwithstanding this work, Deloitte & to consider appointments to the matters which the Committee Touche LLP have retained objectivity Board and to consider succession considers.
With the appointment of and independence during the year.
planning at senior levels within the Mr Giacoletto on 4 January 2007 to Company.
The Committee reviews the Board and all of its Committees, Deloitte & Touche LLP have been the the composition of the Board, Mr Whybrow has stood down as Companys auditors since July 2002 particularly in relation to the diversity a member of the Audit Committee.
and the cost, scope and effectiveness of skills, experience and term The experience and expertise of of the audit are reviewed regularly.
of office and seeks to ensure that the members of the Committee In 2005 the Board requested that a both executive and non-executive are summarised on page 44. formal review of the external Auditor directors have the necessary skills The attendance of its members be undertaken with due regard for and attributes for the future success is shown in the table on page 43. good governance and to ensure of the Group.
The Committee shareholders are receiving the best retains external search consultants The Committee met five times during available service.
as appropriate and during 2006 the year and reported its conclusions engaged Career Mentoring to the full Board.
The Committee This review commenced in December International to assist in the invites the Chief Executive Officer, the 2005 and was completed in March appointment of an additional Finance Director, the Internal Auditor 2006.
Following the review, the Board non-executive director which was and senior representatives of the concluded that it was appropriate completed with the appointment external auditors to attend meetings to recommend to shareholders that in January 2007 of Mr Giacoletto.
as appropriate to the business being Deloitte & Touche LLP be re-appointed considered.
In addition, the Committee and this was approved at the Annual has the right to invite any other General Meeting held on 2 May 2006. employees to attend meetings where this is considered appropriate.
Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CORPORATE In relation to the appointment of external The Board has delegated responsibility GOVERNANCE REPORT auditors and in order to safeguard for the review of practices and continued auditor independence and objectivity, procedures to the Audit Committee.
the Committee has a policy of permitted The Companys senior management, services which details the services in conjunction with external advisers that can be provided by the Companys are responsible for undertaking auditors and those services which periodic reviews of the suitability require specific approval by the of current systems on which they Committee.
The policy also details report to the Audit Committee.
services that the Companys auditors are not permitted to provide.
The The Audit Committee reviews the policy has been complied with findings to ensure the effectiveness throughout the year.
and efficiency of the processes implemented by senior management.
The Committee reviews, where This includes discussions with senior practicable, all proposed management of the Company and announcements to be made by consideration of reports that have the Company to the extent they been submitted.
These findings are contain financial information.
in turn discussed by the full Board.
The Committee also monitors and The Board is satisfied that this reviews the effectiveness of the process accords with the internal Groups internal control systems, control guidance for directors set accounting policies and practices, out in the Turnbull Report Internal risk management procedures Control: Guidance for Directors on and compliance controls as well the Combined Code and that as the statement on internal controls through its interface with management, before they are agreed by the the Board is aware of the major risks Board for each years annual report.
facing the Company and the steps taken by the Company where possible The Chairman of the Committee to mitigate such risks.
The risk attends the Companys Annual General evaluation process described in Meeting to respond to any shareholder this report has been in place for 2006 questions that might be raised and up to the date of approval of the concerning the Committees activities.
annual report and financial statements.
INTERNAL CONTROL MANAGING RISKS Philosophy and policy A summary of the structures and The objective of the directors and processes in place to identify and senior management is to safeguard manage risks across the Group and increase the value of the business are set out below and opposite.
and assets of the Company.
Part of this objective requires the development Risk profiling of relevant policies and appropriate There is an ongoing process to internal controls to ensure proper identify and evaluate risks faced by management of the Company s resources the Company, through the conduct of and the identification of risks which regular meetings by the Companys might serve to undermine them.
Findings are reported to the Audit Committee The Board is ultimately responsible together with recommended actions for the Companys system of internal and a timetable for implementation.
control and for reviewing its A list of prioritised risks is refreshed effectiveness.
The systems and on a regular basis to reflect changes processes established by the Board to the business and any observations are designed to manage, rather than or proposals arising from events since eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the last review.
The schedule, along business objectives and provide with other management information, reasonable, not absolute, assurance is used to develop an overall against misstatement or loss.
assurance plan for the Company.
42 | 43 Controlling risk The Committee assesses the findings The Board confirms that it has The Company has policies which and proposed actions for addressing reviewed the effectiveness of the address a number of key business residual risks and also advises on system of internal controls for the 52 risks, including financial, treasury areas for further attention.
weeks ended 29 December 2006. and health and safety.
The policies are made available to relevant employees INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS through policy manuals, an intranet The Company has a comprehensive The table below shows the site and also via employee briefings system for regular monitoring and attendance of each of the directors on specific topics as appropriate.
reporting of financial performance at meetings of the Board and its and assessing the adequacy of the Committees held during the 52 During 2006, a formal review of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Companys treasury policies was Risk assessment and evaluation is an A comprehensive file of briefing undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP, integral part of the annual planning papers and a meeting agenda is the results of which were reported cycle.
This includes assessment provided for each director in advance to a meeting of the Audit Committee.
of the Groups strategic direction, of each meeting.
Decisions are taken The report concluded that overall objectives and financial returns and by the Board, in conjunction, where practice within the Company was the risks in achieving them.
appropriate, with the recommendations acceptable.
Where the report identified of its Committees and advice from areas which might benefit from As part of the planning cycle, a detailed external consultants and executive improvement, action is being taken budget is prepared by management management.
In addition, during and progress is reported to meetings and thereafter is reviewed and formally those months when a Board of the Audit Committee.
The budget meeting is not scheduled, a pack and other targets are regularly updated of management reports, including The Company also has a formal via a rolling forecasting process and financial analysis is sent to each of whistle-blowing policy which was regular business review meetings are the directors.
up-dated during 2006 and has also held involving senior management Board Audit Remuneration Nomination been communicated to employees.
worldwide, at which the Companys No.
of Meetings 8 5 3 8 The policy provides information overall performance is assessed.
1 J S Hodgson 1 on the process to follow in the event The results of these reviews are in J C Scarisbrick 8 any employee feels it appropriate turn reported to and discussed by J D Y Collier 8 to make a disclosure.
The Audit the Audit Committee and the Board G Collinson 8 Committee received a report on the at each meeting.
A summary of the key P G G Goodridge 8 revised policy and the process for its financial risks inherent in the Companys A Carlisle 6 3 2 6 communication to employees prior to business is given on pages 30 to 33.
As a result, the Committee D Tucker 8 5 2 8 is satisfied that the policy provides an These processes are supported J W Whybrow 8 4 3 8 adequate basis for employees to make by discreet reviews conducted by representations in confidence to the external advisers, as determined 1 Stepped down from the Board 28 February 2006 Company and for appropriate and by the Committee, in addition to proportionate investigation.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RESOLUTIONS The Group carries out a programme During the year, the Committee The resolutions to be proposed at of management self-assessments over reviewed the effectiveness of the the Annual General Meeting to be the status of key business risks through Groups internal audit function, its held on 2 May 2007, together with formal reviews which consider the risks relationship with the external auditors explanatory notes, appear in the faced by the business, how these and oversaw the development of separate Notice of the Annual might be mitigated and who within the the function during the year since General Meeting, which has been Company is responsible for implementing the appointment of an internal auditor sent to all registered shareholders.
The Committee external advisers are appointed in approved the internal audit plan By Order of the Board order to support this process.
and at subsequent meetings, Brett Gladden reviewed progress against the plan.
Company Secretary MONITORING AND MANAGING The Committee considered the 21 February 2007 THE STATUS OF RESIDUAL RISK results of the audits undertaken by The actions arising from external and the internal audit function and the internal assessments are consolidated adequacy of management's and during 2006 the results were response to matters raised.
reported to the Audit Committee.
