0346 DC AR 2006 p23-37 8 6 06 6:10 pm Page 23 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 23 Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of senior management to make financial commitments.
This report sets out how the Company there are clear policies and procedures over the key risk areas complies with the principles contained in Section 1 of the over which management has been given delegated Combined Code on corporate governance published by the responsibility, including financial reporting, treasury, purchasing, Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
The Board considers milk procurement, food safety and environmental matters.
that, throughout the financial year under review, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the All directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary Combined Code with one exception.
No meetings were or to independent professional advice at the expense of the requested or held between shareholders and the Chairman and Company.
During the year actions have been taken to ensure senior independent non-executive director during the year.
that directors are regularly updated and refresh their knowledge However, the Board considers that arrangements are in place and awareness of corporate responsibilities, including a to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns presentation from the pension fund actuary on scheme funding.
These arrangements include The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover for the communication with the shareholders at the Annual General directors and officers.
The Companys insurance cover also Meeting AGM, regular feedback from the Chief Executive includes insurance of employers liability and public and product and the Group Finance Director on their meetings with major liability risks.
New appointments to the Board participate in shareholders and periodic reports to the Board on the views induction programmes including briefings by members of the of major shareholders from the Companys broker.
senior management team and visits to Group facilities.
We describe below the way in which the Company complies The Board has three Board Committees and the non-executive with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code.
directors are members of all Committees.
Details of directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings are set The Board out below: Currently the Board consists of the Chairman, Mr S M D Oliver, Board Audit Remuneration Nomination four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
Committee Committee Committee The table below identifies the number of Board and Committee No.
of meetings in year 8 4 4 2 meetings held during the past year and the attendance of Mr S M D Oliver 8 1 2 each director.
Mr J W D Hall 8 Mr M Allen 8 Mr D J Dugdale 8 4 3 2 The Board has responsibility for the overall management and Mr G E Grimstone 8 4 4 1 performance of the Group with the key objective of delivering Mr H Mann 8 2 4 1 Mr A S N Murray 8 shareholder value.
The Board reserves a formal schedule of Mr P S Lewis 3 2 1 1 matters for its approval which includes strategy and Mr D H Richardson 8 4 3 1 management, financial structure and capital, reporting and Mr P Thornton 8 controls, Board appointments and committees, executive remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance All directors have attended meetings of the Board and of compliance.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, Board Committees of which they were members at the relevant the Board objectives, the terms of reference of the Board time unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
committees, a summary of the service agreements of the Arrangements were made for all directors to attend the Annual executive directors and of the terms of appointment of the General Meeting on 14 July 2005 AGM 2005.
All directors non-executive directors together with the respective attended the AGM 2005 with the exception of Mr H Mann due responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are to circumstances beyond his control.
available on the Companys website, www.
The biographies of the directors are set out on page 22.
The Audit Committee: At 1 April 2005 the Committee comprised four non-executive directors, Mr D J Dugdale, Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board Mr G E Grimstone, Mr P S Lewis chairman and Mr D H meetings and make presentations to the Board on strategic, Richardson.
Mr H Mann joined the Committee on 19 May 2005 financial, operational and compliance matters.
Directors are and Mr P S Lewis retired from the Committee following the given Board papers in advance of each meeting.
Where AGM 2005 and was replaced as chairman by Mr D H Richardson.
directors have concerns about the running of the Company, The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, or a proposed action that cannot be resolved, their concerns the head of internal audit, senior finance management and are recorded in the Board minutes.
representatives of the external auditors are in attendance at meetings of the Committee.
The Committee holds private Below the Board level there are limits of authority allowing the meetings without management present with both the external Executive Committee, comprising four executive directors and and internal auditors.
0346 DC AR 2006 p23-37 9 6 06 1:28 pm Page 24 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance statement continued The Committee is responsible for exercising the full powers and appointments.
The Committee discussed board succession authority of the Board in reviewing a wide range of accounting arrangements in December 2005 and external consultants and financial reporting matters.
Since the 2005 Annual Report were appointed to assist in executive directors development the Committee has met to consider, amongst other matters: and succession arrangements.
The Committee has also recommended to the Board that Mr H Mann be proposed for The Companys interim and annual financial statements and re-election as a non-executive director at the Annual General formal announcements on financial performance before Meeting to be held on 20 July 2006 AGM 2006.
Mr H Mann submission to the Board for approval: has completed one term of three years and his business The impact on the interim and annual financial statements background and experience are considered to be of of the adoption of International Financial Reporting considerable on-going benefit to the Company.
The Committee Standards IFRS : approves any non-executive directorships taken by executive The Groups risk register and the adequacy of the Groups directors.
The Board believes that directors can gain valuable accounting systems and internal controls: experience and knowledge from becoming a non-executive Review of the Group internal audit process and the 2006 07 director of another listed company that will ultimately benefit internal audit plan together with the principal procedures the Company.
performed by the external auditors in relation to the Fraud and Proceeds of Crime Act: The Remuneration Committee: The membership of the The provision of audit and non audit services provided by Committee during the year is set out on page 27.
The Committee the external auditors, their audit fees for 2005 06 and a is responsible for determining, within remuneration principles report from the external auditors confirming their agreed with the Board, the salaries, bonuses and pension rights independence and objectivity: of the executive directors.
Remuneration is designed to be set An evaluation of the effectiveness of the external auditors: at a level appropriate to the Companys circumstances having Recommendation for re-appointment of the external auditors: regard to market information provided by external consultants.
Review of the Groups treasury operations including net debt The Board itself determines the remuneration of non-executive levels, facility headroom, compliance with banking covenants directors also having regard to market information provided by and level and appropriateness of hedging arrangements: external consultants.
An explanation of how the Company has Developments in accounting systems including an evaluation applied the principles of the Combined Code with respect to of migration risks and the effectiveness of controls: remuneration is outlined in the Directors remuneration report Review of the effectiveness of the Groups whistle-blowing on pages 27 to 34. procedures: and The Groups compliance with the Combined Code.
Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Where the external auditors have provided non-audit services, Chairman, the senior independent non-executive director, the Group Finance Director has obtained prior authorisation Mr G E Grimstone and the Chief Executive, MrJWD Hall.
from the chairman of the Committee to instruct Ernst & Young The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief LLP to carry out this work.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, Executive have been agreed by the Board and, as previously non-audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young principally advised, are available on the Companys website.
Board balance and independence The Committee members bring considerable financial and The Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be accounting experience to the achievement of the Committees independent under the guidelines set out in the Combined objectives.
Collectively members have significant past business Code.
The non-executive directors are free from any material experience in industry and finance.
Mr D H Richardson was business relationship with the Company and have not held Finance Director of Whitbread plc until April 2005. executive positions within the Group.
None of the current non-executive directors have served as a director of the The Nomination Committee: At 1 April 2005 the Committee Company for more than nine years.
Mr P S Lewis, who joined comprised the Chairman and two non-executive directors, the Board in 1996, retired by rotation at the AGM 2005 and Mr D J Dugdale chairman and Mr P S Lewis.
Currently, there are four non-executive Mr G E Grimstone, Mr H Mann and Mr D H Richardson joined directors, and the Chairman, out of a total Board of nine.
the Committee on 19 May 2005 and Mr P S Lewis retired from The directors are of the opinion that an appropriate balance the Committee following the AGM 2005.
The Chairman between executive and independent non-executive directors succeeded Mr D J Dugdale as chairman of the Committee with exists.
Mr P S Lewis was succeeded by Mr G E Grimstone effect from 13 April 2006.
It is responsible for succession as the senior independent non-executive director following planning at Board level, overseeing the selection of directors Mr P S Lewiss retirement.
Any shareholder who has a concern and making recommendations to the Board on subsequent about the affairs of the Company should contact, in the first 0346 DC AR 2006 p23-37 8 6 06 7:42 pm Page 25 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 25 instance, the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the senior Mr P Thornton, who were elected at the AGM 2003, will retire independent non-executive director.
The Nomination Committee has recommended that Mr H Mann is proposed for re-election as a non-executive Performance evaluation director.
The Board supports this recommendation and is The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual directors, satisfied that Mr H Manns performance continues to be its own performance and of Board Committees.
The evaluation effective and that he demonstrates appropriate commitment to process is designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
the role, including devoting adequate time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Individual director performance is reviewed as follows: The Board also supports the proposed re-election to the Board Each director completes a self-assessment questionnaire of Mr M Allen, Executive Managing Director Dairies and and the Chairman then meets separately with each director Mr P Thornton, Executive Managing Director Foods.
in order to appraise their individual performance and effectiveness and to identify any training requirements.
Accountability and audit The Chairmans performance is appraised by the senior The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has independent non-executive director with input from other adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Board members in the form of completed assessment foreseeable future.
It is therefore appropriate to continue to questionnaires.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other executive directors with regard to their management and The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of operational responsibilities, in accordance with the Companys internal controls to safeguard the shareholders investment and normal performance and development review procedures.
the Companys assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of those controls.
As required by the Combined Code, the Board Appraisals were performed for all the directors during the year has established an ongoing process, in accordance with the for their performance in 2005 06.
The Chairman reported to the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, to Board on the outcome of the appraisals, in relation to the identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Boards overall effectiveness, at its meeting on 16 March 2006.
This process includes the consideration of a schedule A summary of the completed self-assessment questionnaires identifying and evaluating the Groups significant risks and indicated that Board processes and frequency of meetings were related financial, operational and compliance controls.
This satisfactory, that the level of information provided was good and process has been in place for the year under review and up to that Board relationships were strong with open debate on all the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board also reviewed the performance of its Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Committees and it was agreed that the practice of all noncontrol including that of its joint venture Yoplait Dairy Crest executive directors being members of all Board Committees Limited which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk was effective in ensuring good communication and awareness of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives and to of all relevant issues.
It was considered appropriate in future for provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the Chairman to chair the Nomination Committee in view of his material misstatement or loss.
central role in ensuring planned and progressive refreshing of the Board.
Mr D J Dugdale fully concurred with this assessment The main elements of the process applied in reviewing the and agreed to stand down as chairman of the Nomination effectiveness of the systems of internal control include: Committee in favour of Mr S M D Oliver with effect from 13 April 2006.
Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of The Board met without the Chairman present on 16 March 2006 responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The in order to receive a report from the senior independent Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral non-executive director on the Chairmans appraisal together and written presentations to maintain control over strategic, with a summary of the assessment questionnaires completed financial, operational and compliance matters.
The Executive by the other Board members.
It was agreed that the Chairman Committee is responsible for embedding risk management continued to perform his role effectively.
and controls in the Group.
The Executive Managing Director of each division, in conjunction with senior management, Re-election operates and maintains controls appropriate to its own The Companys articles require that one third of Board members activities and conforms to Group policies and procedures.
retire by rotation at each AGM and that each director must retire not later than the third AGM following their last election or Financial reporting there is an annual budget presented re-election.
At the AGM 2006 Mr M Allen, Mr H Mann and and approved by the Board which includes consideration 0346 DC AR 2006 p23-37 8 6 06 6:16 pm Page 26 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance statement continued of the major business risks, an assessment of the likelihood of crystallisation and actions in place to mitigate these risks.
Each business is required to report monthly to the Board on financial performance.
The monthly financial information includes trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information by business division with comparison against prior year and budget.
Each business periodically reassesses its forecast for the financial year.
Annually, a strategic plan is also presented to the Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three years and includes consideration of current and likely future strategic, operational and market environment matters.
Business division reviews On a quarterly basis, each business division is required to complete a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of divisional management.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee receive copies of all Group internal audit reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action plans.
They also receive reports from the external auditors on the conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
Relationships with shareholders The Company places considerable importance on its communication and relationship with its institutional and private shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director hold meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately after the full year and interim results announcement.
Slide presentations made to institutional shareholders are also available on the Companys website.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders was provided to the Board to ensure that the non-executive directors have a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
In addition, the Board received periodic reports from the Companys broker on investor relations and the views of shareholders.
Board members are regularly circulated with copies of brokers and analysts reports on the Company.
The principal method of communication with private shareholders is through the Annual and Interim reports, the AGM and through the Companys website.
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
All executive directors, the Chairman and the chairmen of Board Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of the AGM is posted to shareholders with the annual accounts at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Resolutions are proposed for each substantial separate issue and details of the proxy votes for each resolution passed are announced immediately after the results of the show of hands is known and are posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
