38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman governance.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration and the Chief Executive is understood and works well, given the Report on pages 41 to 54 describe how the Board has applied individuals long-standing appointments, as set out on page 35. the principles set out in the Combined Code the Code issued by Hence it has not needed to be set out in writing, nor agreed by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003.
The Code is part of the Board.
the listing rules and applied to the Company throughout the year.
The Board believes that four non-executive Directors may be The Company has substantially complied with the provisions of considered to be independent under the Code, namely Messrs the Code, except where the Board has determined that they are Lowy, Dunstone, Balsemo and Verey.
This represents less inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company, than the half of the Board recommended by the Code.
Although as explained below and in the Remuneration Report.
Mr Lowy has been a non-executive Director for longer than nine years, he has continued to demonstrate his independence in The Board terms of character and judgement.
Being based in Sydney, The Company is headed by a Board which comprises a balance of Australia, Mr Lowy finds it difficult to attend Board meetings.
seven executive Directors, including the Chairman and Chief However, he provides his views on Board papers for each meeting Executive, and eight non-executive Directors.
Biographical details and meets with executive Directors when he is in London or when of each of the Directors are set out on page 35.
The Board has been they are in Sydney.
progressively refreshed in recent years with several appointments, including three new independent Directors.
Messrs Hemingway, Gray and Gillespie are not regarded by the Board as independent under the Code because they have advised The Board meets regularly four times a year and at such other the Company over many years: nor is Mr Park due to his having times as are necessary.
It approves the Groups strategy which is been chairman of Northcliffe Newspapers within the last five proposed and executed by the executive Directors.
Nevertheless the Board believes that these non-executive responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to Directors make an important contribution to its deliberations the Board which is published on the Companys website at and have invaluable experience of the Company, its business www.
The Board met seven times during the 2005 06 financial year, four Information and professional development of which were regular meetings, attended by all Directors, except Procedures have been established to ensure that the Board that Mr Lowy was unable to attend three of them and Mr Dunstone receives timely and appropriate information both for its meetings was unable to attend one of them.
The other three meetings were and regularly between meetings.
All Directors are offered such all special meetings, held at short notice, some of which several training as is considered necessary, both on appointment and at non-executive Directors were unable to attend.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors attendance by Directors is set out below: to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary.
Number of Number of meetings meetings attended Election and re-election The Viscount Rothermere 7 7 The Companys Articles of Association require that a Director appointed by the Board must stand for election at the next C J F Sinclair 7 7 Annual General Meeting.
Thereafter all Directors are subject to J P Williams 7 7 re-election every three years.
Under the Companies Act, a Director is also required to stand for re-election when he first reaches the D M M Dutton 7 7 age of 70.
The Board has determined to discontinue its policy not P M Dacre 7 7 to seek the re-election of Directors over the age of 75 years.
The P M Fallon 7 7 Board has chosen not to adopt the additional provision in the Code that non-executive Directors, who have served for more than nine K J Beatty 77 years, should be subject to annual re-election since the existing J G Hemingway 7 7 practice, which complies with Company law and with the Articles, S M Gray 7 7 works well.
I G Park 7 4 The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive F P Lowy 7 1 Directors are available for inspection at the Registered Office of C W Dunstone 74 the Company during usual business hours.
F P Balsemo 7 4 Board evaluation T S Gillespie 7 5 The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its D J Verey 7 6 own performance and that of its individual Directors.
It reviewed its performance by reference to the schedule of matters reserved for it.
The evaluation process took the form of a questionnaire The Board has not, as required by the Code, identified a senior sent to each Director, seeking their views on such matters as independent non-executive Director since it believes that to involvement in strategy, the structure of Board meetings, the identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body, quality of communications, confidence in fellow Directors and as this Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
balance of skills, and consideration of views.
The Chairman reported the consensus view on performance to the Board at its meeting in October 2006, enabling it to conclude that it had been effective in the year under review.
No substantive changes to procedures were judged necessary.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued The non-executive Directors did not meet as a group without Internal controls and management of risk the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives and profitability.
Senior management addresses the opportunities Board Committees and uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
The Board has established Nominations, Remuneration, Audit The risk management process consists of the identification, and Risk Committees with mandates to deal with specific aspects evaluation and control of risks, which could threaten the of its business.
The remits of these committees are published on achievement of the Groups strategic, operational and financial the Companys website.
Details of the membership of these objectives, as well as the active management of opportunities.
committees are given on page 35.
Each committee reports to the Board at every regular meeting.
In October 2006, the Board carried The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the divisions out a review of the performance of its committees and concluded described at the front of the Annual Report having considerable that they had been effective in the year.
autonomy as regards its operation and establishment of control systems.
Overseeing the divisional structure is a central Company Secretary management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions are The Company Secretary, Mr Jennings, is responsible for advising undertaken centrally, notably newsprint buying, insurance, the Board through the Chairman on all governance issues.
All treasury, tax, pensions, and risk and assurance including Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
Nominations Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of The Nominations Committee, which was established as a internal control.
This system is designed to provide reasonable separate committee in 2003, comprises three Directors: the assurance of the safeguarding of assets and shareholders Viscount Rothermere its chairman, Mr Hemingway and investment and the reliability of financial information.
Only Mr Balsemo is an independent non-executive system can, however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, Director, whereas the Code recommends that a majority of assurance of these matters.
The Directors confirm that they have members of the Committee should be independent.
Nevertheless reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal the Board believes that the Committee operates well.
The Deputy control for the period up to the date of the approval of the Accounts.
Finance Director, Mr Perry, is secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive attends most meetings at the invitation of The Board has delegated responsibility for the evaluation of the the Committee.
benefits and risks of investment opportunities and financing proposals to an executive committee, the Finance Committee.
The Committee met three times during the year and all meetings Above certain defined levels, however, the Board must approve were attended by all serving members.
programmes relating to acquisition and divestment proposals and capital expenditure.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board on any changes.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for the system of internal During the year it nominated Mr Berry as an independent control and the review of its effectiveness resides with the Board, non-executive Director.
Neither external advice nor advertising the Risk Committee assists the Board by giving assurance on risk was required in this instance.
The process for the management of significant risks is undertaken by the Risk The Committee continued to review succession planning for both Committee and it accords with the Turnbull Guidance on internal executive and non-executive Directors.
It has also assessed the control, appended to the Code.
most appropriate method of evaluating Directors performance.
Risk Committee Relations with shareholders The Risk Committee, which was established in 2000, comprises The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with Mr Sinclair, the Chief Executive its chairman, the Viscount its institutional shareholders.
In the past year, this has included Rothermere, Messrs Williams, Gray and Dutton and Mr Kass, the meetings in London, France, Scotland, and the US.
legal director of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Mr Gray provides a non-executive perspective to the review of risk management Non-executive Directors are kept informed of the views of processes within the Group, as well as providing a direct link to institutional shareholders by the regular distribution of analysts the Audit Committee.
The Committee met four times during the reports and feedback is provided from institutional meetings.
During the year the Risk and Internal Audit functions were combined into Risk and Assurance, the head of which, Mr Page, All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General is Secretary to the Committee.
Meeting, of which twenty working days notice is given, where they have the opportunity to speak to Directors.
The Risk Committee considers reports prepared by central management, by each of the divisions of the Group and by central In the interests of transparency and to assist private shareholders, functions, on a rotational basis, reviewing a division and central the Company posts all announcements and general presentations function at each meeting.
These reports identify business risks given to analysts and institutions on its corporate website.
for the Group as a whole and within the divisions and assess the Shareholders and others interested in the Group are encouraged controls in place to manage those risks.
The Committee operates to use the site and to email questions which they might have to a rotational programme of presentations by the divisions on investor.
Questions to particular Directors specific risk management issues, as well as identifying topics @ should be addressed through the Secretary.
for consideration across the Group.
This year the Committee has focused on the following risks: IT security and the integrity of data: fraud risk: risk from acquisitions made by the Group: treasury risk: risk from any circulation misstatement: succession planning Daily Mail and General Trust plc 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued to mitigate the risk from any loss of key management: and again auditors following their audit procedures, considers significant on business continuity and disaster recovery planning.
The financial reporting issues and approves any changes to Group Committee also monitors developments in relevant legislation accounting policies, which are set centrally.
During the year, the and regulations to consider the impact these might have on the Committee received reports on the implementation of international Group and on its system of internal control.
financial reporting standards and on the requirements of the Business Review regulations.
Apart from these specific Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links with responsibilities, the Committee is mandated to review all each of the main divisions through attendance at divisional board announcements of results issued by the Group and to consider the meetings as directors of these boards.
The Committee reports to appointment of external auditors and to review their remuneration.
the Board at each of its meetings on the results of these processes to enable the Board to determine the overall effectiveness of the The central risk and assurance function carries out internal audit system of internal control and risk management more widely.
There is an internal audit charter which covers the purposes and objectives of the Groups internal Audit Committee audit function, its authority and scope: independence issues: The Audit Committee, which has been in existence since 1989, standards of professional practice and performance monitoring: comprises four non-executive directors: Messrs Gray its planning and reporting: and the expectations of divisional chairman, Hemingway, Park and Verey.
Following each review, a formal report is issued that an audit committee should comprise at least three members, to divisional management with the audit findings and, where all of whom should be independent non-executive Directors.
At each Audit Committee Only Mr Verey is considered to be independent under the Code.
meeting, the Head of Risk and Assurance reports on the internal Nevertheless the Board believes that the Committee operates audit activity completed, including an overview of the work done, independently.
Members qualifications are set out in their a summary of the control assessments and any major issues or biographies on page 35.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Gray, findings.
In September, the Committee monitored and reviewed formerly senior partner of a firm of chartered accountants, has the resources and performance of the internal audit function, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Secretary, Mr Jennings, together with its plan for the forthcoming year.
It approved the plan a Chartered Accountant, is secretary to the Committee.
and confirmed that the internal audit function had been effective in the year under review.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year and all meetings were attended by all serving members.
The Group does not maintain common detailed accounting or operations manuals because of the diverse operations carried out The Committee has implemented the procedures set out in the by its divisions.
Where applicable, divisions maintain their own Smith Guidance to the Code which are within its control.
A number of the divisions also undertake regular control the Groups policy on whistle blowing.
Procedures exist to monitor review work as part of their control process.
the independence of the external auditors and include a policy on employment of former audit principals.
There is also a policy As a consequence of the Groups risk management process, the on the provision of non-audit services with which the Groups Board has taken the view that control processes in place remain head office and each division complies.
The choice of firm is adequate.
normally determined on the basis of professional expertise and competitiveness.
The Group may engage the external auditors to One of the Groups subsidiaries, Euromoney Institutional Investor perform audit-related work, accountancy advice and corporate tax plc, is subject to the requirements of the Code in its own right.
Non-audit services in other areas are decided on their disclosed in its latest annual report, it has in place its own system merits and are put out to tender where the amounts in question of internal control and risk management processes which forms are significant.
The external auditors are excluded from the part of the Groups overall framework of control.
The joint ventures following areas: where they are auditing their own work: where and associates of the Group are not included in the Groups system a mutuality of interest is created: or where the external auditor of internal control described above.
would be put in the role of advocate for the Company.
On behalf of the Board Non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte in 2006 amounted to 7.6 million, compared to 2.0 million the previous year, reflecting the continuing extent of corporate tax advice given and the appointment of Deloitte as lead consultant on Northcliffe Newspapers cost reduction project and to undertake N D Jennings, FCA vendor due diligence as part of the strategic review of that Secretary business.
22nd November, 2006 In September, the Audit Committee carried out an annual review of its terms of reference and of its effectiveness and concluded that it did not need to recommend to the Board any changes to its remit or operations.
In October 2006, the Board conducted its own review of the Committees performance and agreed that the Committee had been effective in the year under review.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has responsibility for the review of financial risk management and of internal financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to the quality of financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviews a summary of letters to management prepared by the Groups external Daily Mail and General Trust plc
