Corporate governance Combined Code existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial strategy and The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies the operating budget and monitors divisional performance through the to disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in 2003 receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
The process the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they for the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most part is a matter have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified level of authority.
The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate Similarly there are authority levels covering capital expenditure, which governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that since can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond these levels of 18 March 2005 it complies in full with the terms of the Code when authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
Bernard Dufau joined the Nomination Committee, and therefore made the majority of the Nomination Committee members independent in Other matters reserved to the Board include: compliance with Principle A.
Overview of control, audit and risk management.
Directors Remuneration: The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive, a Finance The Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The remuneration of the Directors.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Senior management succession plans and the overall direction independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships of management development.
or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors Pension schemes.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee, is a qualified accountant.
He is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Non-Executive meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, Directors of the Company.
in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 29.
Copies of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be available Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors of a publicly listed company.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
the Articles 107 and 108 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all Directors During 2005, the Board, and each of the Audit and Remuneration are required to submit themselves for re-appointment at least once Committees undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs every three years Suggestions for Good Practice as guidance, the individual committee members initially completed separate questionnaires.
The results were The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without compiled and analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet in reports to the Board and each of the committees.
The areas covered the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the included the role of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms Board Board committees, preparation for and the performance at of appointment.
meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership and culture and corporate governance.
The results were then The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely considered by the Board and each of these committees in meetings access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and as specific items of business.
The Board and Board committees represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between consider that they are operating effectively.
The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from the Chairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional www.
com which are reviewed regularly, stating the items commitments are included in his biography on page 21. specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 25 Corporate governance During the year to 31 January 2006 the Board met eight times to deal To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal with regular business and a further two times to approve periodic audit function.
This is felt adequate to enable effective running of To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the the Company.
The attendance record of individual Directors at Board appointment of the external auditor and to approve the and Committee meetings is detailed below: remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
To monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and regulatory requirements.
10 meetings 4 Meetings 4 Meetings 1 meeting To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, including whistleblowing.
David Newlands 10 N A N A 1 To satisfy itself the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
Jean-Nol Labroue 10 N A N A 1 Peter Wilson 9 4 4 1 These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner: Michel Brossard 10 4 4 1 Bernard Dufau 10 4 4 1 At its meetings in September and March, the focus falls on a review of the preliminary announcement Annual report and financial Andrew Robb 10 4 4 1 statements, and the interim announcement respectively.
On both Simon Herrick 8 N A N A N A occasions, the Committee receives reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring Joined the Board on 31 March 2005. its attention.
A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, is presented at each of the four meetings, which highlights any Remuneration and Nomination: significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the March meeting, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submits the internal a Audit Committee audit plans for the coming year.
The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, The external auditors also present their audit plans at the considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb September meeting, and at the March meeting there is a review Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The of the management letter covering the auditors findings in respect Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb, who possesses of the prior financial year.
recent and relevant financial experience.
It will be seen from the Group companies are, from time to time, required to make Directors biographical details, appearing on pages 20 and 21, that the presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from identification, management and control.
positions at the highest level both in the UK and France.
As a matter of routine, the Committee is presented with information on material litigation involving Group companies.
The Committee normally meets at least four times a year.
Both the The Committee reviews all financial statements prior to their external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management are publication.
normally present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice for the Committee to meet the external auditors without management As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make present.
The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the request a meeting without other management present, and he regularly external auditors.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend meets the Chairman of the Audit Committee without management the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into account.
The Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director These include: attend meetings as appropriate.
The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings Board and the quality of advice given.
to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business meetings.
The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tight reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined deadlines.
Code, i. e. : The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory with all accounting policies and standards.
requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory from the Company.
To review the Companys internal financial control and risk management systems and to review risk exposures and steps taken to monitor and control them.
26 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 b Remuneration Committee The principal communication with private investors is through the The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive Annual report, the Interim report and the Annual General Meeting.
Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
Its greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of remuneration and terms of service of the Executive Directors are each Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors informally appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item contribution to the Companys overall performance.
It also ensures that of business and the for, against and abstention proxy votes cast the allocation of shares under the Groups share schemes are on a fair in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are counted and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each criteria.
The application of corporate governance principles in relation resolution.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to to Directors remuneration is described in the report on Directors shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before the remuneration and related matters on pages 29 to 37. date of the Annual General Meeting.
c Nomination Committee Financial and other information including the terms of reference for The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands the Board and Board committees are available from the Companys Chairman, Jean-Nol Labroue, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and registered office and are also available on the Companys website Andrew Robb.
Bernard Dufau joined the Committee on 18 March 2005. www.
The Committee would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the Chairmanship of the Company.
Accountability: risk management and internal control It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should present The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 38, which includes To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, size a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status and composition and make recommendations to the Board with as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors on page 39, which regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the responsibilities.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans understandable assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive for both Board and senior executive positions.
public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required Setting policy for granting of service agreements including to be presented by law.
Internal control Relations with shareholders The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim reports and review has taken place during the year.
Such a system is designed at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance enter into a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is provide internal control.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK, Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control in the Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating and Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process financial performance of the Group and its longer-term strategy.
Road for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the presentation the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and of the full-year and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange face-toethical matters.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit face meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference.
The slide Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, presentations made to representatives of the investment community and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull following the announcement of the full-year and interim results are Committee guidance.
com as is a web cast of the results presentations.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters that such shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 27 Corporate governance The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: are as follows: monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal Risk assessment: announcements relating to the financial performance: The Group clearly sets out its objectives as part of its mediumreviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated control and risk management systems including reports from internal as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported audit on material control weaknesses.
by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance reviews risk management systems: and indicators.
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function The operating companies make presentations on risk to their and the functions workplans.
audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board The business head of each major operating company, who: on the risks facing the businesses.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of part of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and the business: re-forecasting cycles.
reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering through an operating company audit committee and reports from operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis internal and external audit functions: and receives reports on the controls over these risks biannually.
has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks This includes risks arising from social, environmental and to their business area, together with the design of mitigating ethical matters.
controls: has responsibility for their local audit committee: and Control environment and control activities: supported by their operating company audit committee, reports The Group consists of a number of major operating companies on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material each with its own management and control structures.
The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because The internal audit and risk management function, which: of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
works with the operating companies to develop, improve and The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with embed risk management tools and processes into their business each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies operations: include not only internal controls but also other approaches oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury audit committee: instruments, although the risk assessment process does not ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly cover franchisees.
reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically The operating companies work within a framework of policies appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, provides the Board with assurance on the control environment and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
across the Group: Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls: physical and data security.
The Group has also established monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: and a whistleblowing policy.
provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary assurances on the control environment.
Information and communication: The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for including monthly performance review for each major business the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
management reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks which are On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key those risks.
These are then considered by the Board after review by performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure the Audit Committee.
The type of risks identified include strategic risk, that they remain relevant and reliable.
external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for change management programmes, health and safety, retention of employees to report suspected improprieties.
key management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans are designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each Monitoring: businesss significant identified risks.
Where appropriate the risk A range of procedures are used to monitor the effective application management process will include the use of insurance.
of internal control within the Group.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06
