30 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance The Board is collectively accountable to its shareholders for Board of Directors good corporate governance and all Directors are responsible Composition of the Board for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
Throughout the year there were four independent non-executive directors compared to the non-executive Chairman and two The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards executive Directors.
The Board has concluded that its composition of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, throughout the year was and remains appropriately balanced.
controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue There is a clear division between the management of the Board Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying with and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the the required standards of accountability and probity.
Companys business but no individual or small group can dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Companys corporate governance arrangements are are separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily described in the following sections: responsible for the working of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and implementing Board Corporate Governance Report page 30 strategy and policy.
Directors Profiles page 26 Remuneration Report page 35 The Directors biographies appear on page 26.
The Boards policy Directors Report page 27 is that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept Risks and Risk Management page 17 appointments to the boards of other companies only with the Corporate Responsibility page 22 prior approval of the Board and that non-executive Directors must Directors Responsibility Statement page 28 seek the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Shareholders Information page 95 Board before accepting additional commitments that may affect Notice of Annual General Meeting page 29 the time they devote to their role.
During 2005 2006 Michael Jeffries was appointed Chairman of VT Group plc and Chairman Corporate Governance Framework of National Car Parks Limited and Stephen King was appointed as Chairman of Weir Group plcs Audit Committee.
The Board is The Companys corporate governance procedures, which are satisfied that these commitments do not conflict with their ability approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, to carry out effectively their duties as Directors of the Company.
the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining Succession Planning the jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and The Board has in place an orderly process to refresh the non-executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its composition of the Board regularly without compromising its corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined continued effectiveness.
As well as assessing the skills profile, type Code, legislation or good practice.
Revisions were last made in and number of non-executive Directors required to enhance the January 2006.
Boards composition, the Company follows a rigorous internal talent review process which is used in planning executive Director The Board also approves the Companys Business Code of and senior management succession.
Conduct Code of Conduct which defines the Companys business principles and which was updated in June 2005.
Objectives of the Board This is discussed further in the Corporate Responsibility Report The Boards objectives are: on page 22.
These documents are set out on the Companys website www.
com delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders: In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the maintaining the Companys reputation for integrity as Board confirms that there is an established process for identifying, the foundation of its relationship with stakeholders: and evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management building long term success through innovation, quality systems.
This process has been in place throughout the year and and sound management.
up to the date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Boards governance policies include a process for Role and Operation of the Board the Board to review regularly the effectiveness of the system of The Boards core procedures are: internal control and risk management systems, and the Board has set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees conducted such a review during the year.
Details are set out on and Directors: pages 17 to 21.
This does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures such as Camelot Group plc where we do not have the control of risk through agreed evaluation and control management control.
procedures reviewed and revised annually: and Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance monitoring the composition of the Board through the In the year to 25 March 2006 the Company has complied Nomination Committee.
throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
31 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce The Board reviews matters reserved to itself and the performance its control of the Group.
These include: of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives establishing Committees of the Board and their terms of regular reports or presentations from the executive Directors, reference: operational managing directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas and Board papers generally five days before determining the responsibilities of Directors and in particular each Board meeting: minutes are circulated as soon as possible as between the Chairman and Chief Executive: thereafter.
The Board reviews progress on implementing actions arising from the Board and its Committee meetings each month.
approving internal control processes: There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters between Board meetings.
in conjunction with the Audit Committee approving the announcement of interim and final results: All Directors can request additional information from management at any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and approving any interim dividend and recommending services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring the final dividend to shareholders: that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
approving the annual report, remuneration report and financial statements: Board Evaluation and Effectiveness Review The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit approving the Groups strategy: Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance during the year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
The approving the Groups annual budget: process involved completion of questionnaires which focused on process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy approving significant matters relating to capital expenditure, and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and acquisitions and disposals or joint ventures by any implementation of any issues identified during the previous review.
Group company: The Chairman and each Committee Chairman had discussions with each director or Committee member based on the responses approving changes to the capital structure of the Company or and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the other matters relevant to its status as a listed company: and Board or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors performance.
The senior independent non-executive Director was being informed about and taking any necessary decision on responsible for appraising the Chairmans performance in meetings any matter which would have a material effect on the Companys or discussions with the non-executive Directors in the absence of financial position, liabilities, future strategy or reputation.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also met in the absence of the executive Directors.
The results were The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief discussed by the Board or individual Committees which then Executive, except where certain matters are reserved to it produced an implementation plan to address any issues raised.
or to the Committees of the Board.
The Chief Executive in turn The evaluation of the personal performance of executive Directors delegates responsibility to senior executives and in particular was also supported by a 360 degree appraisal process which divisional managing directors.
Operational control is exercised by included a peer group review.
The chairman of the Audit the Operating Board which functions as a board of directors.
The Committee was also responsible for ensuring that the effectiveness Finance Directors role and responsibilities are also clearly defined.
of the external audit process and internal audit function was A matrix of delegated authorities is reviewed and approved by the reviewed following a similar procedure.
This year KPMG reviewed and reported on the effectiveness The Board provides leadership of the Company within a framework of the internal audit function.
of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, Key issues raised during 2005 2006 were refining the strategic operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
review process and instigating a review of the way in which the These are required to identify and manage the risks and their internal audit and risk management processes interact to be potential effect while ensuring that material changes are reported completed in 2006 2007. to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees.
Details of the process are set out below.
32 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance continued Details of Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Directors are briefed, where appropriate by the Companys The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee external advisers, on changes to legislation or regulation or market meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: practice as well as receiving briefings from individual businesses throughout the year.
In particular this year the Board received Audit Remuneration Nomination specific training on the changes made to the Listing Rules, Board Committee Committee Committee Prospectus Rules and Disclosure Rules in July 2005.
Directors, Number of especially Committee chairmen, have the opportunity of attending meetings held 13481 appropriate training sessions.
Nicholas Brookes 13 Leo Quinn 13 1 At least once a year the Board generally visits an operational site Sir Jeremy Greenstock 10 3 Dunstable this year and Directors are encouraged to visit other Keith Hodgkinson 11481 sites and staff.
The Company Secretary through the Chairman Stephen King 13 ensures that there is proper communication between the Board Michael Jeffries 13481 and its Committees and senior management and that nonPhilip Nolan 10261 executive Directors receive appropriate information.
The Chairman reviews and the Company Secretary facilitates induction and Sir Jeremy Greenstock was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in December 2005. other professional development as required.
Role of Non-Executive Directors Directors may take independent professional advice at the The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Companys expense, although no such advice was sought Board to be independent, have an appropriate range of business, during the year.
financial and international experience which is relevant to the Companys activities.
None of the non-executive Directors holds Appointments a material shareholding in the Company.
Nicholas Brookes All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election ceased to be independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004 at least every three years.
Additionally, new Directors are subject as Chairman under the Code but the Board considers that his to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their contribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions appointment, as are directors whose role has changed since their were fully consistent with those of an independent Director.
previous election or who are subject to particular conditions, such Michael Jeffries succeeded Nicholas Brookes as the Companys as Nicholas Brookes who, since March 2006, is required to submit senior independent non-executive Director and shareholders may himself for re-election annually after serving nine years on the contact him if they feel their concerns are not being addressed Board.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period through normal channels.
He is also responsible for reviewing the of three years with the expectation of a further three years subject performance of the Chairman.
Non-executive Directors confirm on to satisfactory performance.
The Board may invite a non-executive appointment, and annually, and have done so this year, that they Director to serve a third three year term after a detailed review at are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them properly to the end of the second term.
Non-executive Directors letters discharge their duties.
In the very few instances when a director of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys has not been able to attend Board or Committee meetings, he registered office and at the Annual General Meeting together has made known his views on pertinent matters to the Board.
with executive Directors service contracts.
Induction and Training The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation All new directors receive an induction on joining the Company, process, considers the performance of each of the directors for which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including to be fully satisfactory and that they have demonstrated continued key financial data, business, social and environmental risks to commitment to the role.
The Board strongly supports their the Groups activities, corporate governance matters such as reelection and recommends that shareholders vote in favour the role of the Board and individual Committees, and the of the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
Companys corporate governance procedures as outlined in this report.
They are advised on the duties and obligations of Committees of the Board directors of a listed company.
Site visits and meetings with senior The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, management are also arranged.
Any newly appointed Director, General Business and Risk Committees with appointed who has not previously been a director of a listed company is Chairmen and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed required to attend an external course covering such duties and annually.
The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, responsibilities.
During the year Sir Jeremy Greenstock attended Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees appear such external course and had an induction programme with the on the Companys website and are also available on request.
executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior Membership of these Committees is given in the Directors staff as well as visiting a number of sites.
Keith Hodgkinson also biographies on page 26.
Further details of Committees are attended a seminar arranged by  LLP given below.
33 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Nomination Committee The Committee is assisted by other Group-wide committees The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as which deal with managing specific areas of risk such as: necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or Environmental, Health and Safety Steering Group: changes that are considered necessary.
The Committee also reviews the time required of non-executive Directors at least Group Security Committee: and once a year.
The Board, as a whole, approves the appointment and removal of Directors.
The Committee has the power to employ Human Resources.
the services of such advisers as it deems necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities.
It generally retains appropriate Risk Management executive search consultants, having prepared a job specification Details of risk management and particular risks within the for the particular role to be filled.
The principal activity of the Group are set out on pages 17 to 21.
Committee during 2005 2006 has been to conduct a search for a new non-executive Director using The Zygos Partnership Audit Committee of the Board for the search process.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonexecutive Directors.
The Board considers that at least one member The Committee consists of four independent non-executive of the Audit Committee, namely the Committee Chairman, has Directors following Sir Jeremy Greenstocks appointment in sufficient recent and relevant financial experience for it to discharge March 2006 together with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The external auditor, Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, General Counsel and Company Remuneration Committee Secretary, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit Sir Jeremy Greenstock was appointed to the Remuneration attend each meeting at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Details of the Committee and The internal auditor and  LLP each meet of the remuneration policy can be found in the Remuneration the Committee without executive Directors or employees of the Report on pages 35 to 42.
General Business Committee The Committee receives comprehensive reports from senior The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine management and the internal and external auditors.
Its key matters arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only responsibilities are to: independent non-executive Directors may decide matters relating to the administration or the implementation of the Companys approve and review the appointment of the external auditor: share schemes other than for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise.
monitor the effectiveness of and receive regular reports from the internal audit function: Risk Committee The Committee chaired by the Company Secretary, meets and ensure the adequacy of the systems and standards of internal reports to the Board at least four times a year.
Other members financial control within the Group: and include the heads of key functions including the Finance Director and representatives from each division.
Any Director is entitled review reports on actions taken to address financial risk identified to attend any meeting and the Chairman of the Audit Committee by management and or the internal audit process.
During the year principal activities of the Committee included: The core responsibilities are to: reviewing the interim and full year financial results: identify and evaluate key risks excluding matters relating to financial reporting and systems which are the remit of the reviewing and approving the audit plans for the following year for Audit Committee : the external and internal auditors: assist the Board by providing a framework for managing risk reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence throughout the Company: and objectivity: reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk management to the Board including insurance, health and safety, fire, environment, business continuity, security and legal: reviewing and approving the external auditors audit fees and letter of engagement: and ensure any corrective actions are taken: reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups promote awareness of risk management: Whistleblowing Policy, details of which are set out on page 22. review the management processes and systems to monitor Internal Audit and manage key risks: and The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal financial control systems through reports received from the Group investigate and manage such matters as the Audit Committee internal audit function during the year.
The internal audit function may from time to time request.
reviews internal financial controls in all key activities of the Group, typically over a three year cycle.
It acts as a service to businesses 34 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance continued by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and work related to disposals by the external auditors because procedures.
There is a system of internal control reviews which of their knowledge of the business concerned: and includes a self-assessment programme covering both financial and IT controls.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations corporation tax compliance work assessed on a case by case and these are followed up to ensure that satisfactory control is basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
The internal audit programme is centrally co-ordinated.
This is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, together with Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the reports from the external auditors on internal control matters noted Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related as part of their audit work.
services such as acquisition work where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, timescales, local resource and cost.
During Independence of Auditors 2005 2006 the amount of consulting related non-audit fees paid to The Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services the  LLP was 0.6m and was principally related external auditor is either allowed to or prohibited from performing to taxation services and work on IFRS.
on behalf of the Group and the relevant procedures to be followed The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their by the Group.
objectivity and independence being compromised.
They report to the Audit Committee on how they comply with the professional and The procedures relate to: regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence.
Thus key members of the  selecting the statutory auditors and approving the audit fee: LLP audit team rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality is maintained between different parts of the firm who being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor may be providing services to fide La Rue.
and the Company other than in the ordinary course of business : Relationship with Shareholders agreeing a policy on the employment of former employees of The Company places a high priority on communications with and the auditor, then monitoring the implementation of this policy: accountability to shareholders.
A general interim statement and a fully audited annual report and accounts are sent to shareholders commissioning non-audit work: and and posted on the Companys website as are presentations to institutional investors.
Announcements are also regularly made circumstances in which it is appropriate or inappropriate for by RNS to the London Stock Exchange.
incumbent auditors to be allowed to, or prohibited from, providing non-audit work.
The Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive Director are available to meet key shareholders to discuss strategy, governance fide La Rues procedures for procuring audit and consulting and other matters.
Nicholas Brookes met key shareholders during services from external sources are: the year and communicated their views to the Board.
Audit-related services: this covers regulatory and statutory All shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting reporting and formalities relating to shareholder and other and receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working circulars.
In addition to the annual appointment of auditors days before the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders can also by the shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the auditors vote and appoint proxies electronically.
At the Annual General performance, the extent to which the auditors keep the Audit Meeting the Chairman announces details of proxy voting after each Committee and management of the Company informed about item of business.
Proxy votes are also available to shareholders at material issues affecting the Company and any significant the Annual General Meeting and on the Companys website.
The developments in accounting policies and standards which may Chairman also provides a trading update.
The Chairmen of the have a material effect on the Companys financial position.
Board Committees are also present.
Shareholders may question the Board on these and other matters relating to the Groups Non-audit related services: the Audit Committee regularly business.
Directors also have an opportunity to meet shareholders reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services seeking informally after the meeting.
The share register is actively monitored.
to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
During the year meetings take place with individual institutional Incumbent auditors are prohibited from performing certain nonshareholders and analysts and presentations are made at the time of major events.
The views of shareholders and analysts audit related services including remuneration consultancy and and brokers reports are reported to the Board and from time to advice, the design, development or implementation of financial time a survey of institutional shareholders views is carried out information or internal control systems.
Certain other non-audit by an external consultant.
services interrelate closely with the auditing work because of the significant knowledge the incumbent auditors may possess By order of the Board of the particular area of the business or issue.
Therefore a total ban on use of incumbant auditors might lead to loss of business knowledge that could adversely affect audit quality.
While it may be cost effective for incumbent auditors to provide services, as a general principle all must be subject to competitive tender.
The Finance Director determines how this applies.
Louise Fluker Non-audit related services may include: Company Secretary 23 May 2006
