NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Company recognised, prior to the Admission of Debenhams plc to the London Stock Exchange in May 2006, that the board should be restructured to reflect the requirements for listed companies.
In accordance with the Combined Code the recruitment process was carried out using an external search consultancy.
A brief was given to that consultancy based on the balance of skills and experience then on the board and the roles and capabilities required for the new appointments.
A full search was carried out and a number of candidates were then interviewed by the Chairman.
Appointments were made on merit and against the objective criteria provided as part of the brief.
Five new non-executive directors were appointed to the board of Debenhams plc in April 2006, Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar, taking up their appointments on Admission.
Their skills and experience are broad and diverse, and include running market leading companies, the establishment and expansion of new businesses, change management, human resources including changing working practices, marketing including advertising, investment banking, corporate finance, treasury and accounting.
A full Debenhams induction programme was arranged, including meetings with external advisers including the Companys solicitors, auditors and financial advisers, key personnel and store visits.
All of the new non-executive directors are independent: none has a material business relationship with the Company, has close ties with any of the Companys advisers, directors or senior employees, holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors, or represents a significant shareholder.
They receive a fee as set out in the remuneration report but no other remuneration from the Company and do not participate in any Company share plan or pension scheme.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Paul Pindar and its other members are Richard Gillingwater, John Lovering and Dennis Millard.
The committee was established in May 2006 and met once during the year, in August, a meeting attended by all members except Adam Crozier.
In view of the evaluation that was carried out prior to the Admission of Debenhams to the London Stock Exchange it is not yet appropriate for the recently appointed Nomination Committee to report on its wider remit of considering the board structure and evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board.
A fuller report on these areas will be made in next years annual report.
35 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
