CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys shares were admitted to listing on the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006 Admission.
Since Admission the Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance set out in the Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Combined Code except in relation to the independence based on the criteria in the Combined Code of certain directors and the number of independent non-executive directors about which further information is given below.
The auditors report on the Companys compliance with those items of the Combined Code specified for their review is set out on pages 50 and 51.
The board of Debenhams plc is chaired by John Lovering.
The Chief Executive is Rob Templeman and the other executive directors are Chris Woodhouse Finance Director and Michael Sharp Chief Operating Officer.
There are five independent non-executive directors, Richard Gillingwater the Senior Independent Director, Adam Crozier, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar.
These independent directors are free from any material business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement, are not also directors of the same companies as any other directors, were not previously employed by the Company and do not participate in any Company bonus, share option or pension scheme.
There are three further non-executive directors, Philippe Costeletos a partner of Texas Pacific Group Limited, Jonathan Feuer a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners and Guido Padavano managing director in the Merrill Lynch Global Equity Division.
The Combined Code recommends that at least half the board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
As three of the non-executive directors, Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer and Guido Padavano, are not independent as they represent the three largest shareholders in the Company, the Company does not comply with this recommendation of the Combined Code.
In addition the Combined Code recommends that the Chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out in the Code: John Lovering was appointed Chairman of Debenhams plc on Admission but has been Chairman of the Debenhams Group since December 2003, is a substantial shareholder and does not meet the independence criteria.
However these four directors have made a valued contribution to the board and the Company since December 2003, and as the board has five strong independent non-executive directors the board is satisfied that no individual dominates the boards decision taking, no undue reliance is placed on a particular individual and the board is operating effectively.
The board approved at its meeting on 7 July 2006 the schedule of matters specifically reserved for the boards attention and the statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The types of decisions taken by the board include approval of the Companys strategy and annual budget, acquisitions or disposals, documents sent to the Companys shareholders, changes in capital structure, dividends and matters relating to its committees.
Operational decisions are delegated to the Companys management.
The executive directors, the Store Operations Director and HR Director who also attend the meetings, prepare a report which is circulated in advance of each meeting and then report at the meeting on the performance of the areas of the business for which they are responsible.
In the preparatory period prior to and since Admission until the end of the year the board has met on five occasions: the meetings have been attended by all the directors on the board at the relevant date except that, due to holiday or other commitments, Jonathan Feuer, Michael Sharp and Adam Crozier were not able to attend the board meeting in August and Jonathan Feuer could not attend the board meeting in July.
As the Company has only been listed since May of this year, and the new directors were appointed following a full recruitment process using an independent external search consultancy, further performance evaluation would be premature at this time but the board intends to undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
All members of the board, including the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of the major shareholders about the Company.
Three of the directors represent the three largest shareholders and communicate their views to all board members.
Analysts or brokers briefings are circulated to the board and all directors are briefed on the issues raised by major shareholders.
34 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
