Corporate governance report.......................................................................... UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management in directing and controlling the business.
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code and has done so throughout the year regarding the Code provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature.
The way in which the Code principles of good governance are applied is described below.
Board of directors Diageos board consists of its chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer and eight non-executive directors.
The senior non-executive director is Lord Hollick, a partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and former chief executive of United Business Media plc.
The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has determined are independent, are experienced and influential individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making processes.
The board considers that ensuring individual directors participate fully and independently in decision-making is more important for the achievement of a balance of power than the precise split of executive and non-executive directors.
To increase the executive presence at board meetings, members of the executive committee are invited to attend on a rotational or issue basis.
The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds both a UK and a US non-executive directorship in Centrica plc and FedEx Corporation, respectively.
The board considers that, given the importance of the United States to the companys business, the FedEx directorship is of benefit to Mr Walsh in terms of market awareness, US business practices and networking and that the time commitment is not too great as the meetings can be combined with other business trips to the United States.
The biographical details of the directors, together with their committee memberships, are given in Directors and senior management above.
A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors is available on www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in accordance with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at the next Annual General Meeting AGM to continue in office and must retire, and may stand for re-election by the shareholders, at least every three years.
There is a formal induction programme for new directors: they meet with the executive committee members individually and receive orientation training from the relevant senior executive in relation to the group and its business, for example in relation to its assurance processes, environmental policies and social responsibility policies and practices.
At board meetings, the directors receive presentations on areas of the business from the regional presidents and function heads and regular updates on changes and developments in the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
In addition, the non-executive directors are invited to attend the executive committee members senior leadership meetings to gain further insight into different aspects of the business.
The board meets regularly during the year and, in addition, an annual strategy conference is held off-site with the full executive committee for two days, at which the groups strategy is reviewed in depth.
The board receives detailed financial information and regular presentations from executives on the business performance, in addition to items for decision and minutes of board committees in advance of each board meeting.
This enables the directors to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues under consideration.
When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board for decision to ensure that key policy and strategic decisions are made by the full board.
This is reviewed annually and was last revised in September 2004: the review in December 2005 concluded that no revision was necessary.
Otherwise, the board has delegated authority for day-to-day management of the groups affairs to the chief executive, PS Walsh, who is supported by the executive committee.
The biographical details of the executive committees members are given in Directors and senior management above.
The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of business conduct: business development, including major investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment or removal of directors: succession planning for senior management positions: risk management: financial reporting and audit: corporate citizenship, ethics and the environment: and pensions.
The board undertakes formal evaluation of its own performance and the board committees assess their respective roles, performance and terms of reference and report accordingly to the board.
The board assesses the reviews of each committee.
An internally produced questionnaire was used for the performance evaluation process, and the board members concluded that appropriate actions had been identified to address areas that could be improved and that overall, the board and its committees continued to operate effectively.
Each directors performance is evaluated by the chairman based on input from all other directors.
An internally produced questionnaire is completed and returned to the chairman, who then meets privately with each director to review their performance.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the directors, using an internally produced questionnaire which is completed and returned to the senior non-executive director, who discusses the feedback in a meeting with the non-executive directors and then privately with the chairman.
A report on the individual performance evaluation process is made to the nomination committee annually.
LM Danon did not participate in the performance evaluation process, as she joined the board half way through the year.
Following the performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman has confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
A decision is taken each year on the performance evaluation process to be used.
In respect of this years individual performance evaluation process, the nomination committee reviewed the process in June 2005 and concluded that it was effective and that external facilitation was not necessary.
During the year, six scheduled board meetings were held, five in the United Kingdom and one in the United States.
The meetings were fully attended, except that WS Shanahan and JR Symonds were each unable to attend one meeting.
LM Danon attended two of the three board meetings held following her appointment on 1 January 2006.
Attendance at committee meetings below relates to the period when each director held office.
The non-executive directors meet independently without the chairman present, and also meet with the chairman independently of management, on a regular basis.
The chairman, Lord Blyth, is principally responsible for the effective operation and chairing of the board and for ensuring the information that it receives is sufficient to make informed judgements.
He also provides support to the chief executive, particularly in relation to external affairs.
He spends between two and three days each week on the companys affairs and, because of the closer relationship he has with the company as chairman, he is not considered to be an independent director.
Lord Blyths principal commitments outside Diageo are as a non-executive director of Anixter Inc and a vice chairman of Greenhill & Co, Inc.
There have been no changes to these commitments during the year.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board processes and procedures are appropriately followed and support effective decision-making and governance.
She is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the board.
She is also responsible for ensuring that new directors receive appropriate training and induction into Diageo.
All directors have access to the company secretarys advice and services and there is also a formal procedure for directors to obtain independent professional advice in the course of their duties, if necessary, at the companys expense.
Board committees The board has established several committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers.
The terms of reference of the committees are available at www.
They are also available on request from the company secretary.
Audit committee The audit committee is chaired by JR Symonds and consists of all the independent non-executive directors.
The chief financial officer, financial controller, global audit and risk director, director of technical accounting and external auditor are normally invited to attend the meeting.
The audit committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems and of control over financial reporting: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the audit and risk function and reviewing the business risk programme: monitoring and reviewing the groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: and overseeing the companys relationship with the external auditor, including monitoring their independence.
For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule of the US Securities Exchange Act, the board has determined that JR Symonds is independent and may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert.
Audit committee report The committee met six times during the year and reported its conclusions to the full board.
The meetings were fully attended, except that LM Danon, Lord Hollick, WS Shanahan and HT Stitzer were each unable to attend one meeting and Dr FB Humer was unable to attend two meetings.
At the end of four meetings, the committee met with the external auditor with no executive or staff member present except on one occasion when the global audit and risk director was present.
The committee also met on three occasions with the global audit and risk director with no executive or staff member present.
During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim and annual reports and associated interim results and preliminary yearend results announcements, focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity, critical accounting policies and any changes required to those: and it reviewed the groups preparation for the adoption of, and issuance of financial statements under, IFRS.
The committee also reviewed the work of the filings assurance committee described below and external audit findings and was updated on litigation risks by the groups general counsel.
The committee received presentations from certain senior executives on the management of key risk and control issues in their respective business areas and reviewed the effectiveness and findings from the risk management and internal control processes described below, including review of risk mitigation plans for critical risks the oversight of Diageos primary risks is allocated between the committee, board and executive committee.
The committee also reviewed the work of the audit and risk committee described below.
To support it in this activity, it had available to it the resources of the audit and risk function which supports the processes for identifying and assessing the management of significant business risks and conducts internal audits across the whole of the groups business.
The committee reviewed at each meeting a report in respect of the compliance programme described below, and an update on preparatory work to enable the company to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related SEC rules relating to internal control over financial reporting in the next financial year.
The committee carried out an annual self-assessment in December 2005 to review its effectiveness and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the board that no substantive revisions to its terms of reference were required, but recommended that changes be made to reflect an organisational change.
Monitoring of external auditor During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the interim announcement and its audit of the annual financial statements.
As noted above, the committee also met three times with the external auditor alone.
The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance and audit and risk staff.
In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the audit committee considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant UK and US independence standards.
The group has a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in June 2006.
Under this policy the provision of any service must be approved by the audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which the audit committee has pre-approved.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised as follows: accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit or other attest services required by statute or requested by management and not otherwise prohibited: due diligence and other support relating to acquisitions, disposals and other business initiatives: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance: tax planning and related implementation advice in relation to acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
Nomination committee Chaired by Lord Blyth, this committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
The committee is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the board and succession to it.
It makes recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required blend of skills and experience.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
The committee met twice during the year.
Both the meetings were fully attended, except that LM Danon and WS Shanahan were each unable to attend one meeting.
The committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a self-assessment in December 2005 and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the board that no revisions to its terms of reference were required.
The principal activities of the committee during the year were a review of individual performance, succession planning in respect of the executive committee members and the consideration of potential non-executive directors.
The committee recommended the appointment to the board of one additional non-executive director LM Danon: external search consultants assisted with this work and the chairman consulted with the executive directors before the recommendation was made.
Remuneration committee This committee is chaired by Lord Hollick and consists of all the independent non-executive directors.
The role of the committee and details of how the company applies the principles of the Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out above in the directors remuneration report in relation to directors remuneration policy and practice.
The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The committee held five meetings during the year.
The meetings were fully attended, except that LM Danon, Dr FB Humer, M Lilja, WS Shanahan, HT Stitzer and JR Symonds were each unable to attend one meeting.
Executive direction and control The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key components of the business: North America, International and Europe markets, global supply and the global functions.
It met nine times during the year, generally for two days, including an off-site executive strategy meeting and the joint annual strategy conference with the board, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, people and performance including brands.
One of these meetings was held in Africa, with the remainder in the UK.
In addition, scheduled interim update meetings were held by teleconference throughout the year.
Responsibility and authority within the financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief executive to individual members of the executive committee who are accountable to him for the performance of their business units.
Executive direction and control procedures include approval of annual strategic plans submitted by each business unit executive and periodic business reviews.
These reviews are generally attended by the regional president responsible for the market and in certain cases additional members of the executive committee and are held in the relevant market.
The reviews focus on business performance management and specific issues around brands, people, key business decisions and risk management.
The chief executive has created several executive working groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including the following: Audit and risk committee Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for overseeing the approach to securing effective risk management and control in the business, reviewing and challenging the sources of assurance as to their adequacy, reviewing the effectiveness of the compliance programme and reporting periodically on the above to the audit committee or to the board.
62 | Diageo Annual Report 2006.......................................................................... Corporate citizenship committee Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the board or executive committee, concerning corporate citizenship strategy, policies and issues.
This includes such matters as: corporate citizenship performance, measurement and reporting: community affairs: environmental matters: and other emerging corporate citizenship issues.
Progress against these areas is reported periodically to the board and publicly through a separate corporate citizenship report, which is subject to external assurance.
That report and the groups social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the Diageo website.
A copy of the corporate citizenship report is available on request.
An alcohol and responsibility executive working group assists the committee with its work on specific issues linked to Diageos commitment to responsible drinking.
It brings together the key executives from the business and functional representatives involved in detailing and realising Diageos commitment to responsible drinking.
Finance committee Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital structure and management of financial risks and the policies and control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury and taxation required to implement the companys financial strategy and financial risk management policies.
In certain specific circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing authorities and procedures recommended by the finance committee and approved by the board.
Filings assurance committee Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring the processes which ensure that the company complies with relevant UK, US and other regulatory filing provisions, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or deriving from it.
During the previous year, the companys filing and disclosure processes were reviewed by the legal function and their recommended enhancements to the processes were implemented in the current year.
These enhancements were primarily to increase direct involvement at the local business level: to facilitate a more tailored challenge to the businesses by the committee: and to integrate further the reporting processes of the group.
As at the end of the period covered by this report, the committee carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Diageos disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief executive and the chief financial officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Risk management and internal control The groups aim is to manage risk and to control its business and financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it to: exploit profitable business opportunity in a disciplined way: avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved and accords with the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee as amended by the Flint Review.
All significant business units, groups of business units and the Diageo executive committee perform a risk assessment at least annually as an integral part of their strategic planning.
Business unit risk assessments and the activities planned to manage those risks are reviewed by relevant executives, for example at periodic business reviews.
The executive risk assessment and selected other risk assessments are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee of the board.
Those committees gain assurance in relation to the effectiveness of risk management and control from: summary information in relation to the management of identified risks: detailed review of the effectiveness of management of selected key risks: and the independent work of the global audit and risk function, which supports and challenges risk assessments, supports and challenges management to improve the effectiveness of management of identified key risks and conducts internal audits.
The risk assessment and management processes described above are also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such as systems implementations.
Additional risk management activity is focused directly towards operational risks within the business including health and safety, product quality and environmental risk management.
The above risk management processes and systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Summary information and findings are regularly reported to the audit committee.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
They confirm that they have reviewed their effectiveness, based on the procedures described above, during the period.
The group is continuing the work necessary to enable it to comply in due course with the SEC rules which implement section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal control over financial reporting.
Diageos first annual report required to comply with section 404 will be in respect of the year ending 30 June 2007, when management will be required to state their responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and to annually assess the effectiveness of structure and procedures in place relating to internal control over financial reporting.
The external auditor will be required to attest to and report on managements assessment.
Compliance programme Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
The board has a well established compliance programme to support achievement of this commitment.
The code of business conduct sets out expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and gifts, confidentiality and improper payments, as well as providing the standards against which these expectations are to be met.
This code was reviewed during the year and a revised code of business conduct was approved by the board in April 2006.
The Diageo marketing code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in relation to advertising and promotion of its products.
The full texts of the code of conduct, marketing code and other codes that comprise the compliance programme are available on the companys website at www.
Compliance programme guidelines specify the manner in which any potential violations of these expectations should be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an independent SpeakUp Helpline.
The latter has been re-communicated to employees, is operated independently and reports to the secretary of the audit committee, head of group security and the global audit and risk director for escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an annual certification requirement for all senior management to confirm compliance with the code of conduct or to identify areas of possible non-compliance to the global audit and risk director.
With respect to the 2006 certification, this was extended to an additional level of senior employees globally.
Training and education including e-learning activities are also undertaken.
Both the audit and risk committee and the audit committee review the operation of the compliance programme.
Relations with shareholders The company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
The boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through the chief executive and chief financial officer.
In November 2005 the company held a two day investor conference which was attended by all the members of the executive committee.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact with institutional shareholders and sell side analysts.
Coverage of the company by sell side analysts is circulated to the board.
The non-executive directors are invited to attend the meetings with analysts and institutional investors which follow the publication of the interim results and preliminary year-end results.
The board also ensures that all directors develop an understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders through an independent survey of shareholder opinion which is conducted and reviewed annually.
In addition, major shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of interest to them at an annual meeting with the chairman and senior nonexecutive director.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are also present and available to take questions and the chairman reports on the meeting to the board.
Diageo produces a short-form annual review, which is sent to all shareholders, and a full annual report is available by election or on request.
As an alternative to receiving shareholder documents through the post, shareholders may elect to receive e-mail notification that the documents are available to be accessed on the companys website.
Shareholders can also choose to receive e-mail notification when new company information is published on www.
The website also provides private shareholders with the facility to check their shareholdings on-line and to send any questions they may have to the company.
Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any other director and express their views on any issues of concern at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to put their questions in person.
The company also holds an annual presentation to the UK Shareholders Association.
The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are normally available at AGMs to take any relevant questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
In 2005, all the directors attended the AGM.
At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders and is published on www.
The company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
Resolutions on the receipt of the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
Charitable and political donations During the year, total charitable donations made by the group were 20.2 million 2005 22.6 million.
UK group companies made donations of 11.8 million 2005 14.4 million to charitable organisations including 0.7 million 2005 1.4 million to the Diageo Foundation and 6.5 million 2005 7.2 million to the Thalidomide Trust.
In the rest of the world, group companies made charitable donations of 8.4 million 2005 8.2 million.
The group has not given any money for political purposes in the United Kingdom.
The group made no donations to EU political organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.3 million during the year 2005 0.5 million.
Supplier payment policies and performance Given the international nature of the groups operations, there is no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
Operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, so that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
Creditor days have not been calculated, as Diageo plc had no trade creditors at 30 June 2006.
The companys invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting on behalf of the company.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Standards.
The directors have also presented additional information under US requirements.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable UK and US law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Diageo has American Depositary Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and is subject to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The company is subject to those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related SEC rules applicable to foreign private issuers.
New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules Under the NYSEs corporate governance rules for listed companies, Diageo must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Diageo believes the following to be the significant differences between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies.
Basis of regulation US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority require each listed company incorporated in the United Kingdom to include in its annual report and accounts a narrative statement of how it has applied the principles of the Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the best practice provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period covered by the annual report and accounts.
References to the Code are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in 2003.
It is not mandatory for companies to follow the principles set forth in the Code, and the Code does not require companies to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which they comply.
A company that has not complied with the Code provisions, however, or that complied with only some of the Code provisions or in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature complied for only part of an accounting period covered by the report, must specify the Code provisions with which it has not complied, and where relevant for what part of the reporting period such non-compliance continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance.
As stated above, Diageo complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions of the Code.
Diageo Annual Report 2006 | 65 Corporate governance report continued.......................................................................... Director independence The Codes principles recommend that at least half of a companys board, excluding the chairman, should consist of independent non-executive directors.
The NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies state that companies must have a majority of independent directors.
Currently, eight of Diageos 11 directors are non-executive directors.
The NYSE rules set forth five bright-line tests for determining director independence and require in addition that the board of directors affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with the company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the company.
The Code, which is followed by Diageo, prescribes a more general standard for determining director independence.
The Code requires a companys board to assess director independence by affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Diageos board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs bright-line tests.
In addition, as at 31 July 2006, all members of Diageos audit committee are independent non-executive directors as per the requirements of section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related SEC rules.
Chairman and chief executive The Code recommends that the chairman and the chief executive should not be the same individual in order to ensure that there is a clear division of responsibility for running each companys business.
There is no corresponding requirement for US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and chief executive.
Non-executive director meetings Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and independent directors must meet separately at least once per year.
During the year under review, Diageos non-executive directors met four times as a group without any executive directors present.
Committees Diageo has a number of board committees which are similar in purpose and constitution to those required for US companies under NYSE standards.
Diageos audit and remuneration committees consist entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The nomination committee is chaired by Lord Blyth, who is not independent.
Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating corporate governance committee, composed entirely of independent directors.
In addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, this committee must develop and recommend to the board a set of corporate governance principles.
The terms of reference for Diageos nomination committee, which follow the requirements of the Code, do not require the committee to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for Diageo.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Diageo discloses in its annual report how the board, its committees and the directors are evaluated and the results of the evaluation and it provides extensive information regarding directors compensation in the directors remuneration report.
Code of ethics NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers.
Diageos board has established a compliance programme to support achievement of its commitment to conducting Diageos business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
Diageos code of business conduct sets out expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, competition law, insider trading and corrupt payments as well as illegal acts in general.
A marketing code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in relation to advertising and promotion of its products.
In addition, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related SEC rules and such code is available on Diageos website www.
Compliance certification In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, PS Walsh, Diageos chief executive, is required to provide the NYSE with an annual compliance certification stating that he is not aware of any violation by the company of any NYSE corporate governance standards.
In accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, PS Walsh is also required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing after any executive officer becomes aware of any material non-compliance with the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to the company.
