CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This report contains a summary of how the Board BOARD TRAINING AND EVALUATION has complied with the principles set out in the On appointment each director receives an induction programme Financial Reporting Councils FRC Combined Code into the Group together with guidance on their responsibilities.
on Corporate Governance During the period under review, the performance of the executive directors has been evaluated using the performance Throughout the year ended 30 September 2006 the Company management system implemented throughout the has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Group.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate principal committees was undertaken during September 2006.
Governance with the exception that: The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent Dillie Malherbe was appointed as a member of the Remuneration director, reviewed the leadership and performance of the Committee on 15 September 2004 and is not considered to be Chairman.
These evaluations will be repeated in FY2007.
The independent, solely due to his executive role at VenFin Limited.
assessment concluded that the structure of the Board and its The Board considered the implications of his role at VenFin committees was robust and that the contributions and the time Limited and concluded that this would not compromise the commitments of the members satisfied the present needs of the independence of his input to the Remuneration Committee.
Liddiard is also not considered independent given his employment with VenFin Limited.
As at 30 September 2006 BOARD OPERATION VenFin Limited held 18.3% of the Companys share capital.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the conduct of the business of the Group, and decides upon Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial A corporate governance framework in the form of an Officers Operating Review summarise the Groups performance authorities matrix has been approved by the Board defining the and financial position.
The Board considers these reviews, along roles and responsibilities of the constituent elements of the with the Chairmans Letter and the Directors Report, to reflect, Group's management structure.
This enables the Board to plan, with reasonable accuracy, the Groups position and prospects.
execute, control and monitor the Group's activities so as to The Directors responsibility for the financial statements is achieve its strategic objectives.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board include: BOARD OF DIRECTORS Approval of the Group's strategy and annual budget: The Board comprises the Chairman, four executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
The Board considers all nonReview of Group performance: executive directors, with the exception of Dillie Malherbe and Approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material Peter Liddiard, to be independent.
Gordon Waddell holds the contracts, material acquisitions and developments: position of senior independent non-executive director.
Maintaining and monitoring the Group's system of internal A table setting out members of the Board during the period can control and risk management: be found on page 28.
Changes relating to the Company's capital structure and Biographical details for the current directors can be found on the Memorandum and Articles of Association: pages 22 and 23.
Recommendation of dividends: The Board met five times during the past year.
A table indicating attendance by directors at Board and Committee meetings is set Communication with shareholders, including approval of all out at the end of this report.
The non-executive directors have circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements: met separately three times during the year, and in addition communicate on a regular basis.
The terms of reference of Board committees: PAGE 30 The appointment, removal and remuneration of directors The Audit Committee comprises three independent nonand the Company Secretary: executive directors and Derek Irish, a chartered accountant and a senior partner in an independent accounting practice.
The Changes to retirement benefit schemes, employee share Committee met four times during the year and the Chairman plans and long term incentive programmes: has met independently with the external auditors three times during the year.
The Groups external and internal auditors Approval of the interim statement and annual report and attend the meetings and have direct access to the Committee accounts including the review of critical accounting policies to report the findings of the external and internal audit work, as and accounting judgements and an assessment of the well as any matters of concern.
The Chief Financial Officer Company's position and prospects : and attends the meetings at the request of the Committee.
The The appointment of the external auditors.
report of the Audit Committee is contained on page 34.
Financial reporting is performed according to a strict schedule.
Remuneration Committee The non-executive directors are provided with information to Wendy Lucas-Bull Chairperson from 8 May 2006 enable them to reach independent conclusions on the matters Dillie Malherbe brought to their attention at Board meetings.
In addition to the Rory Scott Chairman to 8 May 2006 Board meetings, briefings are given to the non-executive Gordon Waddell directors by Board and non-board members, providing an The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive opportunity to question operational executives directly.
The directors, three of whom are independent.
Wendy Lucas-Bull Board ensures that each director is provided with appropriate was appointed to the Committee and replaced Rory Scott as and timely information in order to exercise his or her Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effective May 2006. judgement.
All directors are able to obtain independent The Remuneration Committee met twice in the year under professional advice at the Companys expense.
It operates within defined terms of reference, and access to the services and advice of the Company Secretary.
recommends to the Board the remuneration policies for the Groups directors and senior executives.
No director is involved BOARD COMMITTEES in determining his own remuneration.
During the year, the The Board has established four committees to which it has Committee made grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
All committees operate within The report of the Remuneration Committee is contained on written terms of reference approved by the Board which are pages 37 to 42. available on request from the Company Secretary and may be viewed on the Company's website www.
com Nomination Committee Jeremy Ord Chairman Executive Committee Gordon Waddell The Executive Committee, which meets fortnightly, has Dorian Wharton-Hood responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business and the execution of the Groups strategy.
It is chaired by Brett Dawson.
The Committee met twice during the year under review.
The Brett and the other executive directors, with the exception of Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board and Jeremy Ord, are also members.
The members of the Executive makes recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment Committee are set out on page 25. of new directors.
It also satisfies itself that succession plans are in place for the Board and senior management of the Group, and Audit Committee reviews the performance of non-executive directors.
Rory Scott Chairman Rupert Barclay The Nomination Committee considered the expertise and Gordon Waddell knowledge Peter Liddiard has of the IT industry and Derek Irish recommended his appointment to the Board as a non-executive PAGE 31 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued director.
The Nomination Committee did not consider it necessary Manager, includes an Enterprise Risk Management ERM to utilise an external consultant regarding this appointment.
programme and the internal audit function.
The ERM programme provides assurance to the Board on all matters The Board of Directors has approved the written terms of concerning Group Risk, including strategic, operational, reference for the Nomination Committee and these terms financial and compliance risks.
The programme is structured in of reference are available on the Company's website a way that focuses on the risks relevant to Dimension Datas www.
During the year the risk management process was subject to a detailed review with a new risk COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS management policy being approved subsequent to the year The Group is committed to honest, open and regular end.
This risk management process revealed certain control communication with all stakeholders on both financial and nonweaknesses during the year which are in the process of being financial matters.
The internal audit function is a structured Internal Control review process based on risk assessment.
The system of The Group reports its half year and full year results formally to Internal Control is designed to manage rather than eliminate shareholders.
Effective communication with institutional risks, and provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance investors, analysts and the media is established throughout the against material misstatement or loss.
period through presentations by executives and senior management.
Meetings are held to update the market on the The Audit Committee regularly reviews the work plan and key Groups strategies, operations and performance.
Executive and findings of the internal and external audit process and monitors senior management attend these meetings on a regular basis.
developments to ensure that areas of weakness are addressed.
All briefings and meetings are conducted in line with the Responsibility for implementing controls and improvements lies Groups written guidelines to ensure control over price-sensitive with business unit or regional level management.
The Audit information and equality of disclosure.
Committee has delegated the day-to-day responsibility for review of the Group Risk Register and Internal Audit findings to The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to the Group Risk Committee.
This committee provides an advisory communicate directly with shareholders.
The Chairmen of the function to the Board and Audit Committee on all matters Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees are available concerning risk and internal control.
at the meetings to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is enclosed within this Annual The processes above have been in place for the year under Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially review up to the date of approval of the annual report and different issue.
The Company will publish on its corporate accounts.
The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that website details of proxy votes together with a summary of the the system of Internal Control is in line and in accord with the business conducted at the Annual General Meeting.
guidance as set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the FRC in October 2005.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders can obtain information about the Group posted on the corporate website www.
com CONTROL WEAKNESS During 2005, Dimension Data Advanced Infrastructure DDAI, a Group company involved in the provision of power and cabling RISK MANAGEMENT AND solutions in the UK, was subject to a systems review as part of a INTERNAL CONTROL relocation of premises.
As a result, discrepancies in the valuations Ultimate responsibility for Risk Management and Internal of certain work in progress and trade receivables were discovered.
Control lies with the Board.
This includes regular review by the Management conducted a review of the discrepancies and Board and management of the ongoing effectiveness of the appointed  to undertake a forensic audit Risk Management and Internal Control systems and functions.
The Risk Management function, headed by the Group Risk of DDAI.
