Governance Audit Committee Report The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: review critical accounting policies and financial reporting judgements: review the integrity of the Groups system of internal control and risk management: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: review regularly the Groups policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors, to approve the qualifying services and the level of non-audit fees and to monitor the services provided: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity, assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, approve the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect of their re-appointment or removal: and monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern relating to financial matters and internal controls.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the corporate website.
The Audit Committee comprises the four independent non-executive directors whose biographies are set out on page 27.
Andrew Lynch is the Committees chairman.
The Committee met four times during the period in June, September, January and April in advance of key internal and external reporting dates.
The members of the Committee attended all of its meetings.
Representatives of the external auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Director of Risk Assurance were invited to attend each meeting to ensure that Committee members were fully informed and fully supported in carrying out their duties.
Part of each meeting was held between the members of the Committee, the external auditors and the Director of Risk Assurance in private.
The Secretary or Assistant Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee.
During the period the Committee placed additional emphasis on the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards and the effectiveness of internal audit.
The Committee received and discussed reports from the respective functional heads on the impact on the business of the damage to the Groups offices in Hemel Hempstead caused by the Buncefield oil storage depot explosion, taxation risk, working capital management and key performance indicators.
The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of Deloitte & Touche LLP, including the regular rotation of audit partners, remains satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution for their re-appointment be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Approved by the Audit Committee on 6 July 2006 and signed on its behalf by Andrew Lynch FCA Chairman of the Audit Committee DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 45
