Nominations Committee Report The members of the Nominations Committee are Sir John Collins who chairs the Committee, John Whybrow, Rita Clifton, Count Emmanuel d'Andr and Andrew Lynch independent non-executive directors, and John Clare Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
The Committee met once during the year.
The meeting was attended by all its members except Andrew Lynch.
The Committees principal roles and responsibilities are: to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its principal committees and to recommend changes deemed necessary: to identify, evaluate and nominate to the Board candidates for appointment to the Board: to be responsible for succession planning for Board members, in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive: and to make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or otherwise of a director in office upon the expiry of any specified term of appointment.
No member of the Committee participates in discussions or decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board.
The Committee's full terms of reference are on the corporate website.
The principal matters considered by the Committee during the period were: the retirement from the Board of David Longbottom, Group HR Director.
Following an extensive review of internal and external candidates for the role, the Committee recommended to the Board that no successor be appointed immediately.
Ben Bengougam, HR Director for Europe, has been promoted to the role of Group HR Director without a seat on the Board at this stage: the expiry during the 2006 07 financial year of the initial periods of appointment of three of the non-executive directors Andrew Lynch on 20 May 2006, John Whybrow on 24 May 2006 and Rita Clifton on 1 September 2006.
Having considered their individual contributions to the Board and their commitment of time and expertise to the role, the Committee recommended to the Board that they each be re-appointed for further periods of three years upon the existing terms.
The recommendation was subsequently approved by the Board: the further consideration of succession planning in relation to Board members and senior executives within the Group: and the Committee noted the evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year and confirmed their opinion that the Boards size, composition and structure and the present Board Committee structure remained appropriate to the present needs of the Group.
The Committee intends that the executive component of the Board should be strengthened in due course.
The Committee is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting John Whybrow, Rita Clifton and John Clare are properly qualified for re-appointment by virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution of guidance and time to the Boards deliberations.
Approved by the Nominations Committee and signed on its behalf on 6 July 2006 by Sir John Collins Chairman of the Nominations Committee 46 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
