Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of DSG international plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings together the Group for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006.
Comparative figures are for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005.
Change of name The Company changed its name from Dixons Group plc to DSG international plc on 7 September 2005. Business and Operating Review The Business and Operating Review is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
It covers areas contained in the Directors Report, the Business and Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review and should also be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The areas covered are as follows: Location in Annual Report Page Principal activities, products and services, objective and strategy and the markets in which the Group operates Directors Report 30-32 Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and treasury policies Directors Report 32-35 The manner in which the Group measures its performance Directors Report 35-37 Share capital structure Directors Report 37 Review of the development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006 Business and Financial Review 8-19 Financial position of the Group as at 29 April 2006 Business and Financial Review 16-19 Future prospects of the business Business and Financial Review 9 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 24-25 Employee, social, ethical and community matters Corporate Responsibility Review 20-25 Principal activities The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the retail sale of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
The Group also undertakes business to business B2B sales in the computer and communications sectors.
The Group comprises three divisions: Electricals, Computing and Communications.
The Electricals division operates in four regions: UK & Ireland comprising Currys, Dixons Tax Free and Ireland, the Nordic region comprising the Elkjp group of companies which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland, Southern Europe comprising UniEuro in Italy and Kotsovolos in Greece and Central Europe comprising Electro World in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland.
The Computing division comprises UK Computing PC World and PC World Business and International Computing PC City which operates in Spain, France, Italy and Sweden.
The Communications division comprises B2B operations Genesis, together with retail stores The Link both operating in the UK.
The Link operations are to be discontinued.
Since the year end, the Group has acquired Fotovista, which together with Dixons.
co. uk, will form a new e-commerce division.
Products and services The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as Brown Goods, White Goods, Personal Computers, Mobile Phones and related products.
Brown Goods include flat panel and high definition televisions, DVD players, audio products, iPods and MP3 players, cameras and camcorders.
These products are characterised by rapid technological advances offering major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
30 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
