Annual Report and Accounts 2006 22 23 suppliers, when agreeing the terms of each transaction.
Resolution 6 set out in the notice of AGM proposes that Individual operating businesses within the Group are Ernst & Young LLP should be reappointed as the responsible for establishing appropriate policies with regard to Companys auditors and Resolution 7 authorises the the payment of their suppliers.
Trade payables at the year end directors to determine their remuneration.
equated to 81 days of related purchases 2005: 80 days.
In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the Company at the date when this annual report was Employees approved, so far as each of the directors is aware, there is The Group is committed to a policy of equal opportunity no relevant audit information of which the Companys with the objective of promoting a workplace which is free auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken from discrimination, harassment and victimisation.
The all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to policy requires that full and fair consideration is given to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information disabled applicants in terms of employment.
Furthermore, as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors career development opportunities and training for disabled are aware of that information.
This information is given and persons is available as appropriate, with particular attention should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of paid to the needs of individuals who become disabled in section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. employment.
Annual General Meeting The Group has a policy of actively communicating information to employees concerning the development of The notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at 12 noon the Group and how this may affect their interests and of on Friday 11th May 2007 is included in a separate circular ensuring their appropriate involvement.
Further details of the provided to shareholders.
Groups human resources policies are provided in the By order of the board corporate social responsibility report on pages 34 to 37.
P M Sissons Secretary Auditors Solihull During the year, an audit tender process was undertaken 16th March 2007 and Ernst & Young LLP were appointed auditors.
Further details are available on pages 27 to 28.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The board promotes the success of the Group and provides leadership within a framework of prudent and effective The Company is committed to the highest standards of controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The corporate governance and throughout the year ended 31st board ensures that adequate financial and human resources December 2006 the Company complied with the principles are made available to ensure these objectives are met.
set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2003 by the Financial Reporting There were no changes to the composition of the board or Council the Code.
In accordance with the Financial its committees during the year.
The board currently Reporting Councils recommendations the Company has comprises the chairman, chief executive, two other voluntarily complied with the revised principles set out in the executive directors and four independent non-executive 2006 Code during the year.
This statement describes how directors.
The directors biographies are shown on pages 20 the principles and provisions of the Code have been applied.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the division of responsibilities between them is Directors and board effectiveness set out in writing and regularly reviewed by the board.
The The board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, the success of the Company, the Groups system of particularly the non-executive directors, is able to make an corporate governance, its strategic objectives and the effective contribution.
He is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys resources.
The board is functioning of the board, and with the assistance of the satisfied that it meets the Codes requirements for effective company secretary, ensuring that information distributed to operation.
The board takes full responsibility for social, the board is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear and is environmental and ethical matters which are also included in appropriate to enable the board to discharge its duties.
The the risk management process.
The board has considered chairman ensures there is appropriate communication with and implemented, where appropriate, the guidelines on shareholders and this is reported to the board as a whole.
corporate social responsibility CSR issued by the The chief executive maintains day-to-day management Association of British Insurers.
responsibility for the Companys operations, implementing Foodservice Group Corporate governance Group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
The board held eight board meetings during the year, plus The schedule of matters reserved for board decision was five meetings to consider matters in relation to the approach reviewed during the year as part of the board performance to Enodis.
In addition there were four board sub-committee review process.
The board has a forward rolling business meetings, to approve financial results and other regulatory agenda, which is updated after each meeting to include announcements.
specific topics that individual directors have requested be reviewed at future meetings.
The board reviews the key Attendance at board and board committee meetings during 2006 is detailed in the table shown below.
activities of the business and receives papers and presentations from management and external advisers.
Peter Tom has been the senior independent director Items regularly considered at board meetings include health, throughout the year.
The role of the non-executive directors safety and environmental matters, finance and operational is to enhance the independence and objectivity of the reviews, business development initiatives, special projects, boards deliberations and decisions.
All non-executive legal and regulatory developments that affect the Group and directors are independent of management and free from any governance and best practice guidelines.
The company business or other relationship which could materially secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
individual directors, in respect of board procedures.
The chairman was deemed by the Company to have been independent at the time of his appointment.
Board information, training and development In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, The nomination committee ensures that all directors receive all directors submit themselves for re-election at least once a full induction on joining the board.
Directors receive every three years, subject to their continued satisfactory regular updates appropriate to the business throughout the performance and taking into account the need for the year and the Company provides resources for directors to progressive refreshing of the board.
develop and refresh their knowledge and capabilities as required.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to Operation of the board undertake site visits, and in addition at least one board To ensure the effective control of the Group, the board has a meeting is held at an operating site during the year.
All number of items reserved for its sole consideration and directors are suitably qualified, trained and experienced so approval.
The schedule of matters reserved for board as to be able to participate fully in the work of the board.
decision include the following key areas: To assist with the independent conduct of their function, the approval of results announcements and the annual report non-executive directors are able to obtain professional and accounts: advice at the Companys expense, if required in connection with their duties, and a process is in place to facilitate this.
dividend policy: In addition, all directors have access to the services of the key financial matters including major capital investments, company secretary.
restructuring costs, acquisitions and divestments, treasury policy, significant changes in accounting policy and Board performance evaluation practice: During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of capital structure: its performance and the performance of its committees and corporate strategy: the individual directors.
The formal evaluation process of questionnaires was supplemented with individual interviews approval of the Groups budget and business plan: undertaken by the chairman.
Any specific issues raised in corporate governance and listing requirements: the questionnaires were followed up by the chairman in one to one interviews with each director, along with a number of delegations of authority to the chief executives committee: other topics for discussion.
The questionnaires considered a Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Director Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended W B McGrath 88 - - - - - - S Rennie 88 - - - - - - S M Smith 88 - - - - - - V Cocker 88 - - 2 2 - - H M Mahy 88 4 4 2 2 5 5 P W G Tom 87 4 2 2 2 5 5 P B Dermody 87 4 4 2 2 5 5 P E Jackson 87 4 3 2 2 5 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 24 25 number of areas including the performance of the chairman, Communication with shareholders chief executive and non-executive directors, the operation In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a and performance of the board, its committees and the balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups committee chairmen, governance matters and evaluation financial position and prospects and this is outlined in the methods.
The one to one interviews included a broad range business review.
The Company reports formally to of topics including discussions on specific projects and shareholders twice a year when its half year and full year performance, specific areas for improvement, individual results are announced and an interim and a full year report is performance, knowledge gaps and training requirements.
In addition trading statements are The non-executive directors, including the chairman, met issued shortly after the half year and full year.
These reports without the executive directors being present during the are made available on the corporate website year and led by the senior independent director, the nonwww.
At the same time, the executive executive directors met without the chairman present to directors give presentations to institutional investors, analysts review his performance.
Copies of the major presentations are also Based on the feedback from the questionnaire and the made available on the corporate website.
The Company individual interviews, a report providing an outline of the seeks to present an accurate and objective view in a manner findings and draft action plan was drawn up.
The results appropriate for the intended audience.
Contact with the and action plan were considered by the board and, where major shareholders is principally maintained by the chief relevant, by each committee before being finalised.
The aim executive and finance director, who ensure that the views of of the action plan is to continually improve processes, shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole.
Actions highlighted in the The board is provided with a summary of the feedback from 2006 action plan include: broker and shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis and the provision of additional information to cover specific have met with the Companys brokers during the year to business performance and other issues which arise during ensure it is aware of the current views of major shareholders the year: and of any material issues they may have.
consideration of additional site visits: visits to trade shows: The chairman, senior independent director and other nonopportunities to meet shareholders - to extend nonexecutive directors make themselves available to meet with executive understanding of the business and of shareholders and attend meetings if required.
In accordance shareholder views: with the Code, the chairman met directly with major shareholders during the year, without the executive directors additional briefings on new laws, regulations and best being present.
No specific meetings were requested with practice on governance matters.
the senior independent director or other non-executive The schedule of matters reserved for the board, statements directors during the year.
outlining the roles of the chairman and chief executive, the terms of reference of the committees and other policy Constructive use of the AGM statements are reviewed annually as part of the formal Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to evaluation process.
shareholders at least twenty one clear days before the The chairman communicates frequently with the nonmeeting, and separate resolutions are proposed on each executive and executive directors.
Directors are also substantial issue.
The AGM is considered by the board to encouraged to discuss any issues or concerns with the be an important opportunity for direct communication with chairman at any time throughout the year.
Directors are the Companys shareholders.
The chief executive provides a encouraged to ensure that any unresolved issues are brief presentation outlining developments within the Group.
The directors are available to answer questions, formally The Company indemnifies directors for claims made against during the AGM and shareholders are invited to meet the directors informally after proceedings have ended.
The them in relation to their duties, with the exception of losses incurred as a result of their wilful negligence.
The Company Company makes the details of the proxy votes cast on each maintains appropriate directors and officers liability resolution available immediately after the AGM and also insurance.
issues a market announcement setting out the results of the AGM.
Details of the 2007 AGM are set out in the notice of Accountability and audit meeting in a separate circular issued to shareholders, along The statement of the responsibility of directors for the with details of the facilities available for proxy votes to be preparation of the directors report and the accounts under cast electronically.
The Company offers shareholders the IFRS is set out on page 26 page 79 in respect of UK GAAP right to withhold their vote, if they so wish, in line with best and the going concern statement is on page 27 page 79 in practice.
As detailed on page 81, shareholders may contact respect of UK GAAP.
our investor relations personnel at the corporate office or by email to ir@agafoodservice.
com with any questions, issues The board aims to provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and its prospects or concerns.
The non-executive directors may be contacted and this is outlined in the business review.
by email at nonexec@agafoodservice.
Foodservice Group Corporate governance Internal control and risk management have a major financial implication for the business units concerned.
Continual monitoring of systems of internal The board is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems financial control is the responsibility of all management for financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
Together with the audit and risk committee, the board The directors confirm that they have conducted a specific confirms that it has established procedures necessary to annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of comply with the Code to implement the guidance on internal internal control and risk management in respect of the control issued by the Turnbull Committee: and is reporting in financial period and up to the date of this report.
Systems of accordance with that guidance.
internal control are designed to provide reasonable, but not The board is responsible for ensuring that the Group absolute assurance, to safeguard shareholders maintains systems of internal controls, including internal investments, the Groups assets and ensure that financial financial control, operational and compliance controls and information and accounting records are reliable.
risk management systems and for monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
Risk factors Meetings of the board and the audit and risk committee The system for monitoring risks is continuous and an ensure that risk management and internal control are ongoing process throughout the year.
Risk is a formal considered on a regular basis throughout the year, and are agenda item at the October meeting of the audit and risk subject to continuous review and development.
Key risks and uncertainties are set out on pages includes consideration of corporate social responsibility 16 to 18 of the business review.
matters as outlined in the report on pages 34 to 37.
This process has identified a number of risks where action The Groups organisational structure is focussed on its four plans have been developed to eliminate, minimise or business reporting segments.
These are all separately mitigate them including insurance where appropriate.
The managed but report to the board through an executive board has not identified or been advised of any significant director.
The executive management team receives a failings or weaknesses, where action has not been taken, monthly summary of the financial results from each business which might have a material impact on the business.
unit in a standardised reporting format.
The Group has in Statement of directors responsibilities place an annual budgeting process and the draft budget is The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report approved annually by the board.
Business performance is a and the financial statements.
The directors are required to standing agenda item at board meetings.
A comparison of prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance forecast and actual results is considered, with comparisons with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and against budgets and the prior year.
have elected to prepare financial statements for the There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Company in accordance with UK GAAP.
Company law managing significant risks across the Group.
Risk reviews requires the directors to prepare such financial statements are carried out at each business unit, taking into account to provide a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the likelihood of occurrence and the degree of impact.
Risks Group in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. considered include operational and financial contingencies, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial legal and regulatory compliance and social, environmental statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups and ethical issues.
The process identifies both short and financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Such systems are designed to manage requires the faithful representation of the effects of rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with objectives and can only provide reasonable and not the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
income and expenses set out in the International Accounting At business unit level, there are regular management and Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and board meetings to review all aspects of business Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all performance, including potential risks to the Group.
The circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by executive directors undertake frequent visits to business compliance with all applicable International Financial units and business unit management have formal quarterly Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: reviews with the executive directors to discuss strategy, properly select and consistently apply suitable accounting business performance and significant operational and policies: financial risks.
Key procedures include planning, budgeting and investment appraisal.
Feedback is provided to the present information, including accounting policies, in a board.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The internal and external auditors report regularly, to understandable information: and management, the audit and risk committee and the board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the on their activities, findings and recommendations.
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users A control structure is in place with defined delegated to understand the impact of particular transactions, other authorities for management throughout the Group and events and conditions on the entitys financial position and includes clear approval requirements for decisions which financial performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 26 27 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting management have direct access to the external auditors records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any issues or time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding concerns.
the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The remit of the audit and risk committee is set out in full in and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the its terms of reference which are published on the Groups preparation of a directors report and directors website.
The main responsibilities of the audit and risk remuneration report which comply with the requirements of committee are to assist the board in the effective discharge the Companies Act 1985. of its responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable and risk management processes.
expectation that the Company has adequate financial The audit and risk committee met four times during the year resources to continue in operational existence for the and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial foreseeable future.
In preparing the financial statements on calendar.
Items discussed by the audit and risk committee pages 38 to 41 on a going concern basis, the directors during the year included: consider that the Company and the Group have used review of the results and annual report and accounts, appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and monitoring the integrity of financial statements of the supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and Group and considering any significant reporting estimates, and that all accounting standards which they judgements contained therein: consider to be applicable have been followed.
review of formal announcements relating to the Groups The directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial performance: integrity of the Company website.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial and, accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for control and risk management systems: any changes that may have occurred to the financial monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit statements since they were initially presented on the function and ensuring it is adequately resourced.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the included approving the appointment of a new head of preparation and dissemination of financial statements may internal audit and an internal auditor during the year: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
considering reports from internal auditors on work Committees of the board undertaken during the year including audits, investigations The board delegates specific responsibilities to board and whistleblowing reports.
It agreed the programme of committees which carry out a significant amount of work work for the internal audit function for the year ending towards the successful management of the Group.
The 31st December 2007: board has established audit and risk, remuneration and considering reports from the external auditors, including nomination committees as described below.
Each board their review of the effectiveness of controls across the committee has terms of reference, agreed by both the board Group and a review of management action taken in and each board committee and these are reviewed annually response to the work undertaken by the auditors: as part of the evaluation process.
These terms of reference monitoring and reviewing the external auditors are available on the Group website at independence and objectivity, reviewed and agreed the www.
In addition, certain matters have nature and scope of the audit, monitored the performance been delegated to the chief executives committee which of the external auditors and effectiveness of the audit comprises the executive directors and meets as required to process: conduct business referred to it by management within made a recommendation with respect to the level of audit delegated authorities outlined in the schedule of matters fees paid to the external auditors: reserved for the board.
review of the external auditor non-audit fees and Audit and risk committee consultancy spend: The current membership of the audit and risk committee received updates from the Groups treasury and taxation consists of Paul Dermody chairman, Paul Jackson, Helen departments.
Each of these directors is nonThe audit and risk committee keeps the potential reexecutive and regarded by the board as independent.
The tendering of the external audit services under review.
board has determined that Paul Dermody has significant Following completion of the audit work in respect of the recent and relevant financial experience.
The chairman, chief preliminary results for the year ended 31st December 2005, executive, Group finance director, head of internal audit and the committee considered whether it was appropriate to the external auditors attend the majority of meetings by undertake a formal review exercise as one had not been invitation.
Other senior management and other advisers are undertaken for a number of years.
The committee invited to attend meetings as required.
The committee met considered that a review would enable it to consider the separately with the external auditors without executive scope and programme of work to be undertaken by the management being present during the year.
The head of external auditors, to consider their independence and internal audit reports to the Group finance director and has objectivity of services provided and to review the level of direct access to the chairman of the committee.
The fees paid for those services.
The committee recommended committee members, all other directors and senior Foodservice Group Corporate governance to the board that a tender process be undertaken, which the office during normal business hours or at the AGM.
Four firms participated in the review of the executive directors contracts are set out on page 31. process including the incumbents,  The nomination committee met twice during the year.
Following completion of the tender process which took discussed by the nomination committee during the year to into account the views of business units, head office enable it to discharge its duties in accordance with its terms personnel and executive management and the audit and risk of reference included: committee members, the committee recommended to the the reappointment of the chairman, led by the senior board that Ernst & Young LLP be appointed auditors.
Ernst independent director, following the completion of two & Young LLP agreed that they would accept the three year terms of office: appointment if it was offered.
The board formally approved the recommendation of the audit and risk committee.
PwC the proposal to re-elect Peter Tom, Paul Dermody and were informed of the outcome of the tender process and on Stephen Rennie under the retirement by rotation 1st June 2006 they submitted their resignation in provisions and to consider the reappointment of Peter accordance with section 392 of the Companies Act.
In Tom and Paul Dermody following their initial three year accordance with section 394 of the Act, PwC confirmed term of office: there were no circumstances connected with their the board and board committee evaluation process.
resignation which they considered should be brought to the notice of the members or creditors of the Company.
The There were no new appointments to or resignations from the directors exercised the power under section 388 1 to fill board during the year.
the casual vacancy and Ernst & Young LLP were appointed.
The nomination committee in conjunction with the board Resolution 6 set out in the notice of AGM recommends receives updates from the chief executive and Group human shareholders reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the resources director on succession and development planning Companys auditors and Resolution 7 authorises the for senior positions within the Group and as part of the directors to determine their remuneration.
performance evaluation action plan the committee has The committee recognises that there are occasions when it requested a specific presentation from the Group human is advantageous to use the external auditors to undertake resources director during 2007. additional non-audit services, when they are best placed to Changes to directors commitments are reported to the do so.
The committee operates under a formal policy committee as they arise and are considered on their approved by the board to help ensure the independence individual merits.
There have been no significant changes and objectivity of the external auditors is not compromised.
to the chairmans external commitments during the year.
The policy states that non-audit fees paid to the principal auditors should not exceed 250% of the audit fee, except in the case of a significant event.
The chairman of the audit and risk committee is required to authorise non-audit work above a pre-agreed threshold.
Note 3 to the Group accounts provides a breakdown of 2005 and 2006 audit and non-audit fees.
Nomination committee Membership of the nomination committee comprises Vic Cocker chairman, Paul Dermody, Paul Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter Tom.
Each of these directors is nonexecutive and regarded by the board as independent.
The chief executive is invited to attend most meetings of the nomination committee.
The remit of the nomination committee is set out in full in its terms of reference which are published on the Groups website.
The main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to keep under review the size, structure and composition of the board and its committees: to ensure that adequate succession planning is in place: when necessary identify and nominate individuals for appointment to the board and its committees, ensuring newly appointed directors receive full induction materials and guidance: and to consider the reappointment of directors to ensure that the board has a good balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial threeyear term pursuant to a standard letter of appointment, which is available for viewing at the Companys registered
