41 Corporate governance It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on 1 January 2006, there has been full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, with the exception that, as the former holder of an executive office, Gordon Horsfield as Chairman was not independent within the meaning of code provision A.
The Board of directors As at 7 March 2007, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The directors are named in the Directors report on page 39 and their principal commitments outside the Group are described within their biographical details on pages 36 and 37.
Gordon Horsfield is the Chairman.
Between 19 April 2005 and 26 September 2005, he also undertook the role of acting Group Chief Executive and from 27 September 2005 until 7 March 2006 that of full-time Chairman.
As a consequence of holding those executive positions Gordon is not independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
On 7 March 2006, upon the completion of a hand-over period following Dorothy Thompsons appointment, Gordon relinquished his remaining executive responsibilities and has since served as part-time non-executive Chairman.
The Board considers it appropriate that he continues as Chairman in view of his experience and knowledge of the Group, the industry and commerce generally.
The Board also considers that the short period during which Gordon acted as Chief Executive has not adversely affected his independence of judgement.
Dorothy Thompson is the Chief Executive and is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of the Group and its business, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation.
She provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and government bodies.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing, was agreed by the Board on 14 December 2005 and was reviewed and varied by the Board on 23 October 2006.
Gordon Boyd is the Finance Director.
He is responsible for the financial management of the Group, its risk management systems and systems of internal control, and for relationships with the Groups bankers.
Peter Emery is the Production Director and is responsible for the operation, safety, repair and maintenance of the electricity generation plant at the Power Station and for the Drax site.
Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby have served the Group as independent non-executive directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2006.
Having reviewed their position, the Board has again concluded that each of them is independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
Tim Barker is the senior independent director.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third of directors rounded down to the nearest whole number shall retire by rotation each year but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders and that directors shall not serve longer than the third Annual General Meeting following their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
Mike Grasby and Gordon Horsfield, as the directors who have been with the Group the longest, retire and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers it appropriate that Gordon Horsfield be re-elected because of his experience and knowledge referred to above.
Mike Grasbys wide and long experience of electricity generation in the UK and elsewhere and his specific operational and management experience, both of the Drax plant and of other electricity generating plant in the UK, are particularly valued by the Board and the Board recommends his re-election.
After performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that each continues to be effective and committed to his role.
Each of the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, currently holds a letter of appointment which provides for his appointment to continue indefinitely subject to one months notice of termination.
The Chairmans letter of appointment provides for a fixed three year term, subject to six months notice on either side.
It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will serve for a fixed term not exceeding three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate Annual General Meeting, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, in the case of the independent non-executive directors, it is the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service including service as a non-executive director of Drax Group Limited of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years and, as required by the Combined Code, any proposal made in the future to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years will be the subject of a rigorous review.
The Board expects to develop a programme of rotational retirement of non-executive directors as a result of which the skills and experience available to the Board will be refreshed periodically.
The Board has adopted and reviewed during the year a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees which are available to view on the Groups website at www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk particularly in its trading activities : the risk management policies: the annual plan and key performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 42 Corporate governance continued policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference of Board committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a scheme of delegation approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
The Board sets the risk management policies applicable to trading operations and also satisfies itself periodically that effective arrangements are in place for the management of all non-trading risks to which the Group is exposed and that those management arrangements are being effectively monitored by the Audit Committee.
Responsibility lies with the Finance Director to canvas opinions of directors, senior managers and other appropriate staff at least annually as part of the process of review of the Risk Register for the Group.
During the year the Board received, via its Audit Committee, and approved a report on the first review since the Risk Register was established in the second half of 2005, prior to Listing.
During the year, the Board reviewed arrangements for the monitoring of trading performance and risks against the risk management policies approved by the Board.
Until July 2006, the monitoring was undertaken by the Trading Risk Management Committee of the Board.
As a result of the review, which was associated with a review and revision of the Boards trading risk management policies and practices, the Trading Risk Management Committee was disbanded and replaced by a Risk Management Committee of the principal operating subsidiary, Drax Power Limited, chaired by the Finance Director and attended, from time to time as an observer, by one of the Group non-executive directors.
The Board receives a summary report from the Risk Management Committee each month.
Through the Audit Committee the Board has implemented and annually reviews and updates a programme of internal audit reviews of different aspects of the Groups activities designed to ensure that, over time, all facets of the business are reviewed to ensure appropriate systems of control are in place and are working effectively or, where they are not, deficiencies are rectified by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing the actions to be taken in response to each report, the aim is always to embed internal controls, including measures intended effectively to identify and manage risk, within each area of the Groups operations.
In parallel with its work in relation to internal audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself that an action plan for dealing with points raised by the external auditors in their half yearly management letters is being properly addressed by management.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee which, as noted in its report, has monitored progress during the year with the improvements to the Groups systems of internal control, the Board has satisfied itself that those systems are effective.
The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No director sought any such advice during 2006.
As mentioned in the Directors report, each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Committees of the Board The Board has established the following standing committees: Audit Committee which comprises Jamie Dundas as Chairman, Tim Barker, and Charles Berry.
Until May 2006, Tim Barker was the Chairman of this Committee.
Remuneration Committee which comprises Tim Barker as Chairman, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby.
Nominations Committee which comprises Gordon Horsfield as Chairman, Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby.
Health and Safety Committee which comprises Mike Grasby as Chairman, Dorothy Thompson, Peter Emery and the Head of Safety.
As explained earlier, until July 2006 the Board also had a Trading Risk Management Committee which was disbanded following a review of trading risk management policies and practices and replaced by a Risk Management Committee of the principal operating subsidiary, Drax Power Limited.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages45to58.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 43 The Board attaches particular importance to the role of its Health and Safety Committee because of the fundamental importance of safety systems and procedures in a large and complex plant such as that of Drax.
The Committees terms of reference provide for it to review policy, monitor performance and hold management accountable for the efficacy of the Groups health and safety procedures and performance.
Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings, and attendance at them by directors, of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees of Drax Group plc during 2006.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Tim Barker 12 12 5 5 9 9 3 3 Charles Berry 12 12 5 5 9 9 3 3 Gordon Boyd 12 12 Jamie Dundas 12 12 5 5 8 9 3 3 Peter Emery 12 12 Mike Grasby 12 12 7 9 3 3 Gordon Horsfield 12 12 2 3 Dorothy Thompson 12 12 Performance reviews and directors development The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
During the year the Company undertook its first annual review to assess the performance of the Board, its committees and directors and to judge how well the Board has made the transition from an unlisted to a listed environment.
Directors completed a confidential questionnaire on the Board and committee processes, their effectiveness and areas where they may be improved.
A peer review was also undertaken whereby directors assessed their own and their fellow directors performance against set criteria, including the skills which they bring to the Company and the contribution they make.
The individual responses were made available to the Chairman who held a separate meeting with each director to discuss the directors views.
A summary report was prepared for discussion by the Board which agreed a number of actions in respect of its own practices designed to improve the differentiation of the responsibilities of the executive directors from those of the Board and to increase the Boards focus on key issues such as strategy, business planning and performance.
Individual feedback sessions were later conducted by the Chairman with each director so that matters raised by his or her peers could be communicated as a basis for helping individuals to enhance their own performance.
Led by its Chairman, each Committee of the Board reviewed its own performance and reported to the Board which concluded that, whilst performance was satisfactory, there were some areas where improvement would be desirable.
For its next performance review, the Board will consider whether to engage external assistance.
A review of the performance of the Chairman was undertaken during the year under the leadership of the senior independent director and by means of individual conversations with each director.
These were followed up by discussion between the non-executive directors in the absence of anybody else.
Thereafter the senior independent director provided detailed feedback to the Chairman on his own performance.
As stated in its report on pages 49 to 58, in February 2007, when deciding the executive directors bonuses for 2006, the Remuneration Committee also evaluated the performance of each of the executive directors, against both corporate targets and personal objectives.
This evaluation was informed by the results of a confidential survey of senior managers opinions, which also covered the Chairman.
The results of this survey were fed back to relevant directors.
During the year the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors as required by provision A.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically again review each individual directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
Further to induction programmes conducted for Charles Berry and Jamie Dundas during the first half of the year, a reference briefing designed to provide an up-to-date understanding of the detail of the plant, its operating parameters and their significance for the business is underway.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 44 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders The Board places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and evaluating systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of shareholders.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account to shareholders for the performance of the Group, which include, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual General Meeting, the Interim Report at the half-year and Trading Updates announced to the Stock Exchange.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investor community are available to all shareholders to download from the Groups website.
Less formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by the Chairman and other directors.
With a view to better understanding shareholders issues, the Chairman attended meetings with major shareholders during March 2006 following the 2005 results announcement.
In addition, towards the end of 2006, invitations to meet the Chairman were extended to major shareholders representing approximately 60% of the shares in issue.
Subsequently, a number of face-to-face meetings took place between the Chairman and some shareholders in February 2007.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the executive directors, in the UK and USA.
These took place on two occasions in 2006.
The Companys private shareholders hold approximately 1% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Questions asked in person at the Annual General Meeting will receive an oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting will have an opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
This Annual Report and Accounts together with other public announcements is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans introduction, Chief Executives review, Business and financial review and Corporate and social responsibility review on pages 12 to 35 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
This Annual Report is being despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and the accompanying Form of Proxy provides for a shareholder to indicate abstention as an alternative to a vote in favour or against each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged will be announced to the London Stock Exchange via a regulatory information service and placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
The Group Independent auditors report on page 59 summarises their review of the Groups compliance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code as applicable to the Group during the year under review.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
