45 Audit Committee report Membership and process The Committee comprises Jamie Dundas as Chairman, Tim Barker and Charles Berry, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, appointed by the Board.
As foreshadowed in last years report, Tim Barker was the Chairman of the Committee until May 2006 when Jamie Dundas became Chairman.
The biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2006 and the members attendance record is set out on page 43.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations to the following Board meeting and, once agreed, the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members of the Board.
Role The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders: review significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements: review the systems of internal control and risk management: maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditors and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP, a leading firm of accountants, review all internal audit reports and review and monitor managements responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal audit function.
Attendance at meetings The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Financial Controller and the internal and external auditors are normally invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend meetings of the Committee.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Finance Director and the Company Secretary and their resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
Programme of work During the year the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an agreed annual work plan of which the main features were: at meetings in March and September, the Committee reviewed the Groups Preliminary Results Announcement and Annual Report and Accounts, and the Interim Results Announcement and Interim Report respectively.
On each occasion, the Committee both received reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention and also satisfied itself of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed drafts of the Trading Updates made in June and December: at each meeting, except the one in June, the Committee received reports from the internal audit function on the progress of their programme for the year, reviewed new internal audit reports and monitored progress with the implementation of internal control recommendations.
In September, the Committee reviewed both the arrangements for the provision of the internal audit function and the performance of the current provider, Grant Thornton UK LLP, before deciding to continue the outsourcing arrangement with that firm and then settling the internal audit programme for the coming year: in May, the Committee undertook a detailed review of the management letter covering the external auditors findings in respect of the prior financial year and also reviewed the performance of the external auditors: in September, the Committee reviewed the arrangements for the identification and management of risk, a topic which is referred to again later in this report, and in December the Committee reviewed the external audit plan for the 2006 year end work: and during the year, the Committee twice met in the absence of management with the external auditors and once with the internal auditors.
No matters of concern were drawn to the Committees attention at any of these meetings.
The Committees understanding with both the external and internal auditors is that, if they should at any time become aware of any matters occasioning them material concern, they will immediately draw it to the Committees attention via the Chairman.
Nothing was subject to this procedure in the course of the year.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 46 Audit Committee report continued Independence of the audit The Committee has in place safeguards to ensure that neither the independence nor the objectivity of the audit is compromised.
They include: seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their professional judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from them an account of all relationships between themselves and the Group: a policy on the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditors the essence of which is to require a period of two years to elapse between the cessation of an individuals association with the auditors and appointment to any office or employment with the Group: considering whether, taken as a whole, the various relationships between the Group and the external auditors impairs, or appears to impair, the auditors judgement or independence: a policy governing the engagement of the auditors to conduct non-audit work under which: the auditors are not engaged to provide non-audit services where they may be required to audit their own work: or make management decisions: or where the work would create mutuality of interest: or where the auditors would act in an advocacy role for the Company: before undertaking non-audit work, the auditors must confirm their satisfaction that it will not give rise to issues affecting their independence as auditors: and whilst the Finance Director is able to commission non-audit work satisfying the above requirements and within a modest cost ceiling, all action taken is reported to the next meeting of the Committee and the approval of the Committee or, in any case of urgency, its Chairman is required for any work which will exceed the cost ceiling.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 64 to 88.
Internal controls The Board has the ultimate responsibility for the systems of internal control maintained by the Group and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are intended to provide reasonable assurance, but not an absolute guarantee, against material financial misstatement or loss, and include the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting records, the reliability of financial information, compliance with appropriate legislation, regulation and best practice, and the identification and containment of business risks.
At the time of the review undertaken by the reporting accountants shortly before the Group was listed in December 2005, the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups systems of internal control were found to be adequate but capable of improvement.
During the year, the Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, undertook regular reviews of progress with the implementation of the improvement plan which has continued on schedule and is now largely complete.
The principal features of the control framework are as follows: Control environment The Group has an established governance framework.
The key features of the control environment within the framework include: the Statement of Matters Reserved to the Board and the terms of reference for each of its Committees: a clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of authority from the Board and to executive management: a Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups operations: and defined procedures for the approval of major transactions, budgets and capital allocations.
During the year, the Statement of Matters Reserved to the Board, the scheme of delegation of authority to executive management and the policies and arrangements relating to trading risk management have been reviewed and revised by the Board.
Further details on financial and capital risk management are given in the Business and financial review on pages 18 to27.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 47 Risk identification, assessment and management The Group has an established system of business risk management which is integrated into the Groups business planning and performance monitoring processes.
The Groups risk management and control framework is designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of risks that are significant to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
During the year, all the arrangements within the Group for the identification and management of all types of risk were reviewed and the Committee has agreed with the Board an annual cycle whereby: the Board will both define the Groups appetite for risk and regularly review the most significant risks and arrangements for managing them: the Committee will periodically satisfy itself that processes for identifying, monitoring, managing and reporting on risk are working effectively and that the risks identified for review by the Board are indeed those with most significance for the Group: and the Risk Register is periodically reviewed, with the most important review being within the annual business planning cycle with the outcome signifying the start of the annual Committee and Board risk review cycles.
As part of the review, the Board decided to disband the Trading Risk Management Committee which had been constituted as a committee of the Board and to transfer its management functions to an executive Risk Management Committee chaired by the Finance Director.
Oversight of the Risk Management Committee rests with the Board with regard to issues of policy and appetite for risk and with the Audit Committee with regard to processes and effectiveness.
Control procedures and monitoring systems The Group has a system of planning and monitoring, which incorporates Board approval of a rolling five year Business Plan and approval, towards the end of each year, of operating and capital expenditure budgets for the year ahead.
Performance against the budget is subsequently monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board also receives monthly reports on trading risk exposure as compared with the pre-set limits and monitors overall performance against a corporate balanced scorecard which shows progress against a set of financial, operating, safety and other targets set at the start of the year.
Performance is reported formally to shareholders through the publication of Group results.
Operational management make frequent reports on performance to the executive directors.
Internal audit Under an outsourcing arrangement, Grant Thornton UK LLP undertake the Groups internal audit function.
Regular reports are provided to the Audit Committee regarding the audit programme and reviews undertaken.
Recommendations are made to management for process improvements as appropriate.
Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee included: trading: revenue: fuel accounting: contract management: procurement: expenditure: payroll: and treasury.
The Committee is of the opinion that, because of the nature of the Groups business, a higher quality of service is available through outsourcing the function than would be possible through the employment of internal audit staff.
External auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP were appointed auditors of the Company in 2005 and reappointed at the 2006 AGM, having previously acted as auditors to the Drax group of companies prior to the listing of the Company in December 2005.
The audit engagement partner changed as part of a rotation process in 2003.
Deloitte & Touche LLP audits all companies in the Group which require statutory audit opinions.
Having reviewed their performance during the year and satisfied itself of their continuing independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards, the Committee has invited the Board to recommend the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to that effect appears in the Notice of Meeting.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 7 March 2007.
Jamie Dundas Chairman, Audit Committee Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
