DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 33 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle The Board meets a minimum of eight times financial year the Board intends to repeat the per year.
During the year under review it process.
The non-Executive Directors meet and application of sound corporate governance.
All Board members attend separately at least once a year to appraise the The Company has complied throughout the all Board and relevant Committee meetings Chairmans performance.
financial year with all the provisions of the unless exceptional circumstances prevent Board Committees Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of them from attending.
During the year Mr The principal Committees of the Board the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Piette did not attend the Board meeting held issued in July 2003 except as stated below in are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination in March.
Mr Johnson did not attend the Committees.
The Audit Committee comprises respect of A.
The Board has an ongoing Remuneration Committee meeting in March.
review of its corporate governance policy and There were no other absences from any Board The Remuneration Committee comprises has implemented some changes to take account or Committee meetings by any Director.
The of the Combined Code and best practice.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Nomination Committee comprises a majority The Companys Auditors have reviewed Chairman and Chief Executive maintain of independent non-Executive Directors.
the compliance with those provisions of the regular contact with all Directors and hold The Nomination Committee did not comprise Combined Code specified for their review.
informal meetings with non-Executive a majority of independent non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Directors for the first two months of the year Board and Board Committees Company.
Once a year the Board visits a under review Combined Code A.
For The role of the Board business unit and receives a presentation this reason Mr A D Thorne ceased to be a The Board is collectively responsible for from local management.
Individual Directors member of the Committee on 28 June 2005 promoting the success of the Company by are encouraged to make additional site visits and Mr Johnson was appointed in his place.
directing and supervising the Companys during the year.
The Board continually reviews All Board Committees have written terms affairs.
The Boards role is to provide the performance of all of the divisions and of reference agreed by the Board.
These leadership of the Company within a undertakes a strategic review on an annual are available on the Companys website.
The framework of prudent and effective controls basis.
There is a formal schedule of matters Audit Committee is chaired by Mr C J Bunker, which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
reserved for consideration and approval for the Remuneration Committee is chaired by the Board.
These include the annual Plan, The Board sets the Companys strategic Mr Beeston and the Nomination Committee substantial acquisitions and divestments, aims and ensures that the necessary financial is chaired by Mr Hichens.
The membership the approval of the annual and interim results and human resources are in place for the and experience of each Committee can be and a review of the overall system of internal Company to meet its objectives and reviews seen on page 5.
The Board has used the control and risk management.
criteria proposed by the National Association The Board and its Committees, as detailed of Pension Funds for determining whether In addition, the Board sets the Companys below, receive timely information of a quality a non-Executive Director is independent.
values and standards and ensures that its that enables them to carry out their roles obligations to its shareholders and others Audit Committee effectively.
All Directors have access to the are understood and met.
In addition to the Committee members listed advice and services of the Company Secretary.
on page 5 the Chairman, the Group Chief The Board currently comprises three A procedure is in place for any Director to Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Executive and six non-Executive Directors.
take independent professional advice in the Head of Operational Audit and the Group The offices of Chairman and Group Chief furtherance of his duties at the Companys Financial Controller attend by invitation.
The Executive are held separately.
No such advice was sought by any Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker has both Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors are current and relevant financial experience.
Mr A P Hichens, who has been Chairman since provided with opportunities for training to September 1999, will retire from the Board at ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant The terms of reference of the Audit the end of December 2006, having reached the new legislation and changing commercial Committee, which meets at least three age of 70.
Mr P M Johnson, who has been a risks.
On appointment new Directors are given times a year, include all the matters indicated non-Executive Director of the Company since appropriate induction training, including site by the Combined Code except the oversight December 1999, will become Chairman on visits to major business units.
During the year of business risks which is the direct 1 January 2007.
During the year each of the the Board carried out a comprehensive selfresponsibility of the Board.
The primary non-Executive Directors has at all times appraisal which was led by the Chairman objective of the Audit Committee is to assist acted independently of management and and the Senior Independent Director.
The the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities has no relationships which would materially appraisal included the performance of Board relating to: interfere with the exercise of their independent Committees, although a separate and more the accounting principles, policies and judgement and decision making.
It is detailed appraisal of the Audit Committee practices adopted in the Groups accounts: was also carried out during the year.
recognised that Mr D R Piette is not considered a fully independent non-Executive Director All Directors and the Company Secretary external financial reporting and participated in the exercise.
During the current associated announcements: because of his length of service.
34 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Corporate Governance continued the appointment, independence, Wholesaling division that was rectified retiring from the Board at the end of 2006, effectiveness and remuneration during the financial year.
As a consequence, having reached the age of 70.
The Committee of the Groups external Auditors: a further review was carried out of the considered that Mr Johnson was the right management and control processes involved person for the role based on his skill, the resourcing, plans and effectiveness in the UK business: these have been experience and knowledge of the Company.
of the Operational Audit department: reinforced in that business as a result: and Consequently, the Committee did not the adequacy and effectiveness of the consider it appropriate to place an external it oversaw the continuing development and financial control environment, including advertisement for the position of Chairman.
the operation of the Groups Workplace the Groups Workplace Malpractice The Committee met three times during the Malpractice policy.
procedures: and year and there were no absences.
The Committees policy on the supply of the Groups compliance with the Combined Remuneration Committee non-audit services by external auditors is as Code on Corporate Governance.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive follows.
The external Auditors are permitted to attend these meetings by invitation, except The Committee receives and reviews undertake some non-audit services, for example when their remuneration is being discussed.
regular reports from the external Auditors, advisory services and due diligence activities In addition Mr Piette attends by invitation in the Head of Operational Audit and the associated with potential acquisitions and order that he can provide an international Group Finance Director.
divestments and major changes in accounting view on remuneration.
The external Auditors provide The Committee meets with the external Committee is responsible for determining the limited tax compliance services on certain Auditors to determine their independence, remuneration of the Executive Directors, the historical periods, but in future periods all objectivity and effectiveness.
The Audit Company Secretary and senior management.
such work will be performed by other external The Report on Remuneration is set out on Committee receives written confirmation from advisors.
Non-audit services and fees are the external Auditors as to any relationships that pages 36 to 42.
During the year the Committee reported to the Audit Committee twice a year.
might have a bearing on their independence, met four times.
Mr Johnson did not attend the For guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to whether they consider themselves independent meeting in March 2006, but there were no the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of within the meaning of the UK regulatory and other absences.
the annual Group audit fee without prior formal professional requirements, and their quality approval of the Committee: during 2005 06, Other Board Committees control processes.
non-audit fees were less than 30% of the annual The Board has delegated certain powers, During the year the Committee also dealt Group audit fee.
Approval for permitted nonmainly of a routine nature, to the General with the following particular matters: audit services is sought as required by the Purposes Committee, which comprises the relevant Group policy.
Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance it reviewed the policy on engagement of Director under the chairmanship of the Group the external Auditors for non-audit work, During the year the Committee met on Chief Executive.
as referred to below: three occasions and there were no absences.
On each occasion the Committee also met it reviewed the Groups implementation of Relations with Shareholders privately with both the external Auditors and International Financial Reporting Standards The Company has a programme of regular the Head of Operational Audit.
The Chairman IFRS, including the selection of accounting meetings which sometimes includes the of the Audit Committee also held separate policies and the presentation of the transition Chairman and the Senior Independent private meetings during the year with the IFRS balance sheet, and the requirement of Director, site visits and results briefings external Auditors, the Head of Operational other emerging new regulations, including with its major institutional shareholders, Audit and the Group Finance Director.
which provides opportunities to discuss the the Enhanced Business Review requirements for the Annual Report and the audited Nomination Committee progress of the business.
The Board also financial statements: The Nomination Committee considers the receives feedback from major shareholders appointment of Directors, reviews succession in the form of independently prepared reports.
it carried out an appraisal of the planning at Board level, and makes The Annual General Meeting is used as an effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the recommendations to the Board as a whole.
opportunity to communicate with private external Auditors and Operational Audit by The Group Chief Executive attends by shareholders, including a short presentation means of a questionnaire, the results of invitation.
A rigorous process is in place for on the business and current trading position which were reported to the Board.
The the appointment of new Directors, involving as well as an opportunity for questions from Committee concluded that each area the use of external recruitment consultants, investors to the Chairman of the Board and operated satisfactorily during the year: where appropriate, followed by meetings the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration it reviewed the circumstances surrounding both with the Committee and then with the Committees.
Regular communication with a significant under-accrual of customers Board.
The Committee planned for some shareholders also takes place through the rebates in the management accounts of the time for the appointment of a new Chairman annual and interim reports and via the to succeed Mr Hichens in anticipation of his Companys website www.
UK business of the Office Products DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 35 clearly defined policies for capital Internal Control expenditure and investment, including The Board has overall responsibility for the appropriate authorisation levels, with larger Groups system of internal control and for capital projects, acquisitions and disposals reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, requiring Board approval: however, can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can therefore procedure manuals laying down common provide only reasonable and not absolute control procedures and policies to apply assurance against material misstatement throughout the Group: and or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull formal quarterly meetings between central Committee guidance, the Company established and divisional management to discuss the procedures necessary to ensure that there is strategic, operational and financial issues.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the The Groups Operational Audit function Group.
These procedures have been in place undertakes regular reviews of the Groups for the whole of the financial year ended 30 operations and their systems of internal April 2006 and up to the date of the approval financial control.
The work of the function of these financial statements and they are is overseen by the Audit Committee, which reviewed regularly.
regularly reviews its plans and activities.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed The Board determines the objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups system of broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly internal control and that, in response to the and there is a schedule of matters which are issues which arose in Spicers UK discussed required to be brought to it for decision.
The in the Operating Review and in the Report Board has delegated to management the of the Audit Committee above, the control responsibility for establishing a system of processes in Spicers UK have received close internal control appropriate to the business attention and been reinforced.
The Directors environments in which the Group operates.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups Key elements of this system include: system of internal control included a process a set of Key Corporate Values which have of self-certification by senior divisional been communicated to all concerned: management in which they are asked to confirm that their divisions have complied a clearly defined divisionalised organisation with Group policies and procedures and to structure for monitoring the conduct and report any significant control weaknesses operations of individual business units: identified during the past year.
It also clear delegation of authority throughout the involved reviewing the results of the work Group, starting with the matters reserved for of the Groups operational audit function the Board: and the risk identification and management processes identified above.
a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Groups operations are Going Concern identified and assessed on a regular basis, The Directors are required under the together with the controls in place to Combined Code to have satisfied themselves mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration is as to the Groups ability to continue in embedded in decision-making processes.
existence for the foreseeable future.
A review The most significant risks are periodically has been carried out and the Directors have reported to the Board and considered by it: a reasonable expectation that the Group has the preparation and review of adequate resources to continue in operational comprehensive annual divisional and Group existence for the foreseeable future.
For this budgets and an annual review and approval reason, they continue to adopt the going by the Board of the corporate strategy: concern basis in preparing the financial statements on pages 48 to 97. the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, forecasts and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all significant variances:
