Corporate Governance A programme has been prepared that is designed to Introduction ensure that new Directors receive a full, formal and The Board remains committed to high standards of tailored induction on joining the Board.
During the corporate governance and supports the Combined year the Board visits operational locations: Directors Code on Corporate Governance the Code and are briefed on a wide range of topics and are given has reviewed its corporate governance policies and the opportunity to discuss aspects of the business practices in the light of the Code published by the with employees.
Directors have access to independent Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and revised professional advice at the Companys expense where in June 2006. they judge this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors have access Board Meetings and Responsibilities to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Corporate governance is the responsibility of all who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Directors.
The Board meets at least six times a year.
Board procedures are complied with.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, Independent Directors capital projects over a dened limit, annual budgets, The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Group new Group borrowing facilities and significant Chief Executive, four other Executive Directors and changes to employee benefit schemes.
three Non-executive Directors: their details are set out on pages 12 and 13.
The Non-executive Directors There is a distinct and dened division of bring a wide range of experience to the Company responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman and Mr N H Northridge and Mr R V McGlone and the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman is are considered by the Board to be independent as primarily responsible for the effective working of the dened in the Code.
The Board has considered the Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible independence of Mr A C Salvesen who has significant for the operational management of the business and share interests, has served as a Director of the for the implementation of the strategy agreed by the Company for more than nine years and therefore Board.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Nonmight no longer be considered to be independent.
executive Directors without the Executives present.
In view of this, it has been decided that an additional Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Nonindependent Non-executive Director should be executive Directors meet without the Chairman appointed to the Board and that this Director would present on such other occasions as are deemed serve in Mr. Salvesens place on the Audit Committee appropriate.
The process for recruitment of this additional director has commenced.
The attendance of Directors at meetings in 2006 is set The Board has also satisfied itself that none of the out in the table below:  Directors represent any other Board Audit eration nation Shareholder or group of Shareholders.
Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 7341 Mr N H Northridge is the Senior Independent in 2006 Director and is available to Shareholders if they have P G Rogerson 7 n a n a 1 concerns which contact through the normal channels R C Soames 7 n a n a 1 of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director F A B Shepherd 7 n a n a n a has failed to resolve or for which such contact is A G Cockburn 7 n a n a n a inappropriate.
G P Walker 7 n a n a n a K Pandya 7 n a n a n a The Code states that at least half of the Board, A C Salvesen 7341 N H Northridge 7341 excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of R V McGlone 7341 independent Non-executive Directors.
However, the Directors believe that to achieve this balance, n a Not a member of Committee requiring the appointment of further additional Directors, would cause the Board to be unwieldy.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 Corporate Governance continued Re-election of Directors Board Performance Evaluation One third of the members of the Board must retire The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its by rotation each year and may offer themselves for own performance.
This involved the completion of re-election if eligible.
The Board has also resolved assessment questionnaires by all Directors covering that all of its members must submit themselves for the performance of the Board and its Committees.
re-election at regular intervals of at least every three Other aspects that were reviewed included the years.
Any Director appointed by the Board will effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and Nonbe subject to election by shareholders at the first executive Directors, the monitoring of operational opportunity after his or her appointment and performance, and corporate governance, as well as will not be taken into account in determining leadership and culture.
The Board considered a the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that summary of the conclusions and this was followed up meeting.
Non-executive Directors who have served by meetings as appropriate with individual Directors.
longer than nine years e. g. three three-year terms are subject to annual re-election.
Relations with Shareholders The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 114 Standing Committees to 117 sets out the resolutions that will be proposed The Board has standing Audit, Remuneration and at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board Nomination Committees, the memberships, roles and supports the use of this meeting as a means of activities of which are detailed in separate reports: communicating with private investors and encourages Audit Committee on page 54 and 55, Remuneration their participation.
The Company is ready, where Committee on page 57 and Nomination Committee practicable, to enter into a dialogue with shareholders, on page 56.
Each Committee reports to, and has its through analyst briengs and investor presentations.
Terms of Reference approved by, the Board and the Senior executives seek to meet regularly with minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to, institutional and major shareholders to improve their and reviewed by the Board.
understanding of the Company and its objectives.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet The Terms of Reference of the standing Committees shareholders if they have concerns.
In addition to of the Board are available on our website at attending meetings with Shareholders the Board has www.
com investors under the heading sought to understand the views of investors better Corporate Governance.
by commissioning regular feedback reports from the Companys stockbrokers.
44 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Internal Control Review of Effectiveness of Internal Control The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, by establishing a continuous process for identifying, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups evaluating and managing the risks that are considered system of internal control.
This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against formal review that is designed to assess the application material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring of the principal financial and operational controls framework covers a wide range of controls, including operated by the Group.
The review, which is based financial, operational and compliance controls on self-assessment by senior operational management, together with risk management.
It is based principally is carried out using a risk review and control on reviewing reports from management and considering questionnaire and is intended to complement the whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, internal and external audit procedures.
There is managed and controlled and ensuring that any also a comprehensive procedure for monitoring all significant weakness thus identied is promptly significant risks and key risks have been identied remedied.
The Board continues to enhance and on a risk register.
The Board has considered the strengthen the procedures for identifying and probability of those risks occurring and their impact, monitoring key areas of risk.
as well as the actions that would be taken in response to them if they did occur.
The Board also considers nancing and investment decisions concerning the Group and monitors the The Board has undertaken a specic assessment policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury of internal control for the purpose of this Annual risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by Report.
This assessment considered all significant the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
aspects of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2006.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied During the year the Audit Committee of the that the Group continues to have an effective system Board reviews the external and internal audit work of internal control.
programmes and considers reports from internal and external auditors on the system of internal control Corporate Social Responsibility and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure responses from management regarding the actions that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and taken on issues identied in audit reports.
responsible manner, which protects the environment as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers and the communities in which it operates.
These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and manage responsibly environmental, health and safety risks through implementation of a comprehensive Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management System that standardises best operating practices, objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, performance indicators and goals.
These policies are set out in more detail on pages 48 to 52.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45 Corporate Governance continued Pensions The assets of the UK dened-benefit pension fund are controlled by trustees: they are held separately from the assets of the Company and invested by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that the Group complies and has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 with all of the Provisions of the Code with the exception that the Code states that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent Non-executive Directors and the Directors believe that to achieve this balance would cause the Board to be unwieldy.
However, as mentioned above the Directors intend to appoint an additional independent Non-executive Director as soon as practicable.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 8 March 2007 46 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction 48 Equal Opportunities 48 Health and Safety 48 The Environment 49 Social Responsibility 52 Business Ethics 52
