Audit Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Audit Committee the Committee The principal responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: 1. to consider the appointment and assess the independence and effectiveness of the External Auditor: 2. to recommend the audit fee to the Board and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the External Auditors independence or objectivity: 3. to discuss with the External Auditor, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the Auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the Auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements: 4. to oversee the process for selecting the External Auditor and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the Shareholders to be considered at the Annual General Meeting : 5. to review the External Auditors report on significant matters arising from the audit: 6. to monitor and review the effectiveness of Internal Audit, including a review of the Internal Audit programme and ensuring that the Internal Audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company: 7. to consider managements response to any major External or Internal Audit recommendations: 8. to review the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers: 9. to consider serious incidents of fraud or other irregularities.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
com investors under the heading Corporate Governance.
Composition of the Committee The names of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 31 December 2006 are as follows: Mr R V McGlone Chairman Mr A C Salvesen Mr N H Northridge The Committee is entirely composed of Non-executive Directors.
The qualications of the members of the Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 12 and 13.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The specic policies in relation to remuneration of the members of the Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 62.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
54 54 Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 Meetings The number of meetings during 2006 and attendance are set out on page 43.
Main activities of the Committee in the year to 31 December 2006 Financial statements The Committee reviewed the annual results for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2006 in order to monitor the integrity of the financial statements.
Internal financial control and risk management systems The Committee reviewed and discussed the Risk Register that was prepared by the business units and sets out the likelihood and potential impact of the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Committee also considered the results of a self-assessment of Internal Control that covered all of the Groups financial reporting systems.
The Committee considered the adequacy of the whistleblower arrangements contained in the Group Ethics Policy.
External Auditors During the year the Committee conducted a review of external audit services and invited tenders from four global accounting rms.
The outcome of this review was a recommendation to the Board to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company.
There was also a review of the level of fees for non-audit services and the application of those policies that ensure auditor independence.
During 2006, the Committee received the reports of the External Auditor in respect of the annual results for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2006.
The Committee considered the audit work done and any significant judgmental accounting and reporting issues.
The proposed External Audit programme and timetable was reviewed.
Internal Audit function The Committee received regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit and reviewed progress against the agreed plan for the year.
The Committee considered all significant internal control issues raised in these reports, reviewed the 2007 Internal Audit Plan and considered the adequacy of Internal Audit resources.
Roy V McGlone Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2007 Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 55 55
