plc Low cost with care convenience Corporate governance Principles statement easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of corporate governance.
During the year it has complied with the best practice provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code of 2003, with four exceptions, which are set out below.
Statement of compliance The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during the year, with the exception of the following four items: a Prior to Admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority, the Group granted share options without performance criteria attached to them.
The majority of these options have now been exercised.
Options granted since December 2000 have had performance conditions attached.
The Group does not intend to grant further share options to employees without attaching performance conditions to their exercise: b The Company did not have a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director for the entire year.
Following the resignation of the previous Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Tony Illsley, on 30 September 2005, the Board conducted a search for a suitable replacement culminating in the appointment of Sir David Michels as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 6 March 2006. c Where Non-Executive Directors exercise share options, they are not required to retain these until at least one year after they have resigned from the Board.
Following the resignation of Amir Eilon during the year, there are no Non-Executive Directors currently holding share options.
In addition, the Board have decided not to grant any further options to Non-Executive Directors.
d During at least part of the year, Sir Colin Chandler Chairman has sat on each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Sir Colins appointment to the Audit and Remuneration Committees was a transitional arrangement until the appointment of a further Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board.
Sir David Michels was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Audit Committee in April 2006 following which Sir Colin stepped down from each of these Committees.
Sir Colins appointment to the Nominations Committee is not a transitional arrangement.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans personal integrity and experience make him a highly effective member of the Nominations Committee.
Board of Directors As at 30 September 2006, the Board comprised seven Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman Sir Colin Chandler and Chief Executive Andrew Harrison are separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
Sir David Michels is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company regards David Bennett, Prof Rigas Doganis, Dawn Airey, and Diederik Karsten as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou is not regarded as independent due to his significant beneficial shareholding in the Company and his prior involvement in an executive management capacity.
Ray Webster and Amir Eilon resigned from the Board on 30 November 2005 and 22 February 2006 respectively.
There are matters which are reserved to the Board by virtue of a resolution of the Board.
These include matters relating to share issues, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, connected-party transactions, borrowings and guarantees, material contracts, capital expenditure, shareholder and investor relations, officers and employees, treasury policies, risk management policies, donations, litigation, strategy, internal control, budgets, accounting issues and authority levels.
By resolution, the Board has delegated certain authorities to management.
This delegation covers areas such as finance expenditure, treasury and the sale of assets, revenue management, customer compensation, contracts, leases, employment and business development.
The delegation is reviewed regularly by the Board and was reviewed during the course of the year.
The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
Since his appointment in March, Sir David Michels has also made himself available to participate in investor meetings as an alternative point of contact and in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
This direct contact, together with feedback from management and from the Companys two corporate brokers ABN Amro and Credit Suisse, is used to brief the Board.
In addition, the Board has sought direct feedback from sources who are independent of easyJet.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chairman to be the primary conduit with investors given his experience in liaising with shareholders over the past few years.
During the year, the Chairman has updated the whole Board on the results of his meetings and the opinions of the investors.
However, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
36 Annual report and accounts 2006 The Board meets regularly, with ten meetings being held during the year ended 30 September 2006.
All members of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be considered.
Number of Total meetings number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 10 10 Dawn Airey 10 10 Diederik Karsten 10 10 Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 10 10 Jeff Carr 10 10 David Bennett appointed 1 October 2006 910 Andrew Harrison appointed 1 December 2006 9 9 Prof Rigas Doganis appointed 1 December 2006 8 9 Sir David Michels appointed 6 March 2006 77 Directors who resigned during the year: Ray Webster resigned 30 November 2005 11 Amir Eilon resigned 22 February 2006 12 The Chairman discusses governance and strategy with major shareholders when required and communicates the results of these discussions to the Board.
If a major shareholder requests the attendance of a specific Non-Executive Director at a meeting they will be made available.
However, there are no instances of shareholders having made such requests during the year.
It is standard practice for the Chairman to meet and confer with other Non-Executive Directors prior to each scheduled Board meeting without the Executive Directors present.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
They have access to appropriate independent professional advice, resources and other services as they see fit to discharge their duties.
The Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee also have access to sufficient resources to allow them to undertake their duties effectively.
The Company Secretary is responsible for sourcing appropriate funding for these activities.
All Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures have been complied with.
The Board has agreed that the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter to be decided by itself.
During the course of the year, Jeff Carr held the office of Company Secretary on an interim basis following the resignation of Deborah Abrehart in December 2005.
Giles Pemberton was appointed by the Board to act as Company Secretary in April 2006.
Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions as an officer of easyJet.
During the year, the Chairman undertook a performance review of the Board using an external evaluation framework.
The process involved structured interviews with Directors and management.
The Chairman has also reviewed the performance of Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees and also that of the individual Board Directors.
Separately, Sir David Michels has met during the year with the other Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
At each AGM one-third of the Directors will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The Directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three-year period.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms, after which time they may offer themselves for re-election.
Executive Directors are not appointed for specific terms.
However, in practice each Director will normally serve a term no longer than three years due to the required retirement by rotation of one-third of the Board at each AGM.
It is now the Companys standard policy to engage with new Non-Executive Directors on contractual terms based upon the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA standard letter of appointment as appended to the Combined Code.
Annual report and accounts 2006 37 plc Low cost with care convenience Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee did not comprise three Independent Non-Executive Directors during the entire year.
Sir Colin Chandler was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until Sir David Michels appointment to the Committee on 6 March 2006.
Sir Colin Chandlers appointment to the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year was a transitional arrangement until the appointment of a further Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board and to this Committee.
At 30 September 2006, the Committee comprised at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Sir David Michels Committee Chairman, David Bennett, Prof Rigas Doganis and Dawn Airey.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys share option schemes, the Remuneration Committee has met seven times during the year.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Remuneration Committee and is satisfied that the Directors who are members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website, www.
The key terms set out that the Remuneration Committee will: Seek to provide the packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required without paying more than is necessary: Judge where to position easyJet relative to other companies, taking account of what comparable companies are paying and relative performance: Determine the terms of any compensation package in the event of early termination of any Executive Directors contract in accordance with its terms: Make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost: and Determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages and conditions of employment for Executive Directors.
The record of attendance is: Number of Total meetings number attended of meetings Dawn Airey 77 David Bennett with effect from 1 October 2005 7 7 Prof Rigas Doganis with effect from 1 December 2005 4 5 Sir David Michels with effect from 1 March 2006 4 4 Sir Colin Chandler between 22 August 2005 and 1 March 2006 3 3 By invitation: Andrew Harrison appointed 1 December 2005 3 3 Shareholders are required to approve all new long-term incentive plans.
Further details of these plans can be found in the remuneration report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
During the year, the Audit Committee members were David Bennett Chairman, Sir David Michels and Diederik Karsten.
For part of the year, prior to the appointment of Sir David Michels, Sir Colin Chandler was a member of the Audit Committee under a transitional arrangement until the appointment of an additional Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board and to the Committee.
This Committee meets at least three times per year.
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports and other financial information in advance of publication, reviewing on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting that management and the Board have established and reviewing generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
The Audit Committee has met four times during the course of the year.
38 Annual report and accounts 2006 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal financial control system: Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors: Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, financial and senior management, and the Board: Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: and Review annually the need for an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external auditors.
 LLP were appointed auditors of the Group at the Annual General Meeting, held in February 2006.
They replaced KPMG Audit plc who resigned in January 2006.
In order to preserve auditor independence, the Board has decided that the auditor will not be asked to provide consulting services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
The auditor is asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that it has taken to ensure its independence.
easyJet monitors the auditors performance and behaviour during the exercise of its duties.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.5 million with  LLP 0.4 million of which was incurred prior to their appointment and nil with KPMG during their respective periods as auditor to the Company 2005: 0.1 million with KPMG in respect of non-audit services and 1.0 million 2005: 0.7 million with other parties who are entitled to act as registered auditors.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Audit Committee and is satisfied that the Directors who were members of this Committee during the year were those who were best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
David Bennett has served as the Chairman of the Committee during the year.
David was appointed to the Board and to the Committee on 1 October 2005.
He is the Group Finance Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, a major FTSE 100 company: experience which the Board considers to be recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking the role as Chairman of the Committee.
The record of attendance is: Number of Total meetings number attended of meetings Diederik Karsten 44 David Bennett appointed 1 October 2005 44 Sir Colin Chandler between 22 August 2005 and 13 June 2006 4 4 Sir David Michels appointed 6 March 2006 12 By invitation: Jeff Carr 44 Andrew Harrison appointed 1 December 2005 2 2 Ray Webster resigned 30 November 2005 11 Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members.
During the year, the Nominations Committee members were Sir Colin Chandler Chairman, David Bennett, Prof Rigas Doganis and Dawn Airey.
Sir Colin Chandler is not considered to be independent as he is Chairman of the Group.
However, the Board is satisfied that Sir Colin Chandlers personal integrity and experience makes him a highly effective member of the Board and the Nominations Committee.
This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use an external recruitment agency.
This was the case for the appointments to the Board of Andrew Harrison, David Bennett, Prof Rigas Doganis and Sir David Michels.
The Nominations Committee has met two times during the year.
Annual report and accounts 2006 39 plc Low cost with care convenience Corporate governance continued The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The key terms are as follows: To consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman of the Board, the making of any appointment or re-appointment to the Board, whether of Executive or Non-Executive Directors: and To establish and carry out a formal selection process of candidates and provide advice and recommendations to the Board or Chairman as appropriate on any such appointment.
Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared include details of the time commitments expected in the role.
On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and tailored induction.
During the course of the year, Andrew Harrison, David Bennett, Prof Rigas Doganis and Sir David Michels joined the Board.
Shareholders are offered the chance to meet new Non-Executive Directors.
Contracts with Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
The record of attendance is: Number of Total meetings number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 22 Dawn Airey 22 David Bennett appointed 1 October 2005 22 Prof Rigas Doganis appointed 1 December 2005 1 1 Before the appointment of Sir Colin Chandler to the Board in 2002, his significant other commitments were disclosed to the Board.
Sir Colin continues to have significant commitments outside of easyJet, including the post of Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
The Board has considered this and has decided that these commitments do not represent an impediment to proper performance of his role as Chairman of easyJet.
Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts on key business issues.
The Group has an investor relations department to facilitate engagement with investors.
It is the Companys policy that the following procedures should be adhered to with respect to AGMs: All proxy votes are counted and read out at the AGM: Separate resolutions are proposed for each separate issue, including approval of the report and accounts: The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available for any questions at the meetings: and It is the Companys intention that notice of the forthcoming AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before that meeting.
Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the course of the year, the formal process established to identify, evaluate, manage and report upon significant risks faced by the Company has been reviewed and upgraded by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Audit Committee.
The process has been strengthened by a more rigorous mandatory reporting regime involving greater involvement of middle-tier management.
Reporting of risks is now subject to the regular review of a cross-functional executive committee which produces detailed risk reports to the Board and is responsible for monitoring progress in mitigating all reported risks.
The new process has been reviewed and endorsed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
40 Annual report and accounts 2006 Also during the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the need for a whistleblower function and decided that such a system should be implemented with a view to enhancing the internal control environment.
This system is being implemented by management with the involvement of a specialist external third-party service provider.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and reporting structure for the new function.
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the Company Directors and has been adopted as follows: Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted continuously in weekly meetings.
Operational meetings include the Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to discuss safety, security and environmental risks.
The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more regularly where events require, to review safety performance.
In addition, there are regular Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings.
The Airline Management Board meets monthly to consider current significant risks.
Individual department and overall business performance is reviewed.
The reporting of significant risks to the Airline Management Board and the Board of the Company has been enhanced by the new risk management processes referred to above.
The Board considers current significant risks at each of its formal meetings.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise.
easyJet has had an internal control function which considered, reviewed and tested internal control matters throughout the Group.
This was not an internal audit function but was in addition to existing processes within easyJet.
This has now been superseded by the creation of a new internal audit function with effect from 1 October 2006, further details of which are set out below.
Comprehensive operational risk reviews are also performed to help improve risk management.
A fatigue control assessment was completed in 2005, which resulted in implementation of a fatigue risk management plan which has significantly improved easyJets safety performance above industry standards.
An annual risk and control identification process, together with control effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks to significant business objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the desired level are also identified.
Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified.
The Directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from external auditors: and The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high-level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board which considers whether these high-level risks are effectively controlled.
Internal audit The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function regularly over the past few years.
This year, it was decided that the continued growth in the Companys size and the consequent increase in the complexity of its operations and number of relationships with third parties merited the implementation of an internal audit function with a broader remit to police and protect the Companys interests than the previous internal control function.
This was approved by the Audit Committee at a meeting in June 2006 and management is in the process of implementing the new internal audit function.
