Corporate governance The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining high professional advice.
The Board has adopted a training and standards of corporate governance: the process by which the induction policy which includes annual updates from the Group is directed and managed, risks are identified and Groups corporate advisors and an induction process for new controlled and effective accountability assured.
expansion of the Group over the last 18 months the Board The Board has delegated responsibility in a number of conducted a review of the Groups corporate governance areas to three sub-committees with clearly defined terms of practices, including the structure and composition of the reference.
The audit and remuneration committees each Board itself, resulting in a number of changes as referred to currently comprise the three non-executive directors.
Both below and further in the directors remuneration report.
committees are chaired by Nigel Wayne who has also been The following statement is intended to describe how the nominated by the Board as the Groups senior independent Group has applied the principles of the Combined Code on director.
The nomination committee, which is chaired by Tim Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Code, Ryan, comprises the three non-executive directors and the which applied to the Group for the period under review.
The composition of the committees will be kept under review following the appointment of an additional The Board independent non-executive director.
The Company is The Board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, two committed, where possible, to comply with the further non-executive directors and three executive directors.
Roger Ames was appointed as a non-executive director on During the 12 month period ending 30 June 2006 there 25 September 2006 and the Company is currently in the were seven Board meetings, two meetings of the audit final stages of selecting a further independent non-executive committee, three meetings of the remuneration committee director.
In line with best practice, the roles of Chairman and and one meeting of the nomination committee.
All meetings Chief Executive were separated during the year with the were fully attended with the exception of one Board meeting appointment of Tim Ryan as non-executive Chairman and which Bill Ennis was unable to attend, being in the US on Jane Cavanagh continuing as Chief Executive.
Company business at the time.
The non-executive directors, whose terms of engagement were updated during the year to fully comply with best The audit committee practice and all requirements of the Code, are considered to The audit committee meets at least twice a year to review be independent of management.
Nigel Waynes period of the financial results, the Groups internal control systems office as a financial director of SCi Games Limited ended and the findings of the external independent auditors.
It also more than five years prior to joining the Board as a nonconsiders the Groups financial accounting procedures and executive director and therefore does not impact his policies as well as the cost-effectiveness, independence and independence in accordance with the Code.
The Company no objectivity of the external auditors by monitoring the level longer has a commercial relationship with Bell Pottinger and appropriateness of any non-audit work provided by them.
Corporate and Financial, for whom Tim Ryan was chief The current members of the audit committee are Nigel executive.
Consequently there are no further related party Wayne Committee Chairman, Tim Ryan and Roger Ames.
issues concerning the non-executive directors.
Nigel Wayne is a chartered accountant and has recent and All the members of the Board are equally responsible for relevant financial experience.
the management and proper stewardship of the Group.
The non-executive directors are able to bring independent The remuneration committee judgement to issues brought before the Board and are free The committee is responsible for the remuneration of the from any business or other relationship with the Company or executive directors.
It advises the Board on the broad the Group other than as described in the directors framework of executive remuneration and determines, on remuneration report.
All directors are required to stand for behalf of the Board, the individual remuneration packages, re-election at least every three years.
terms and conditions of employment and equity incentive The Board meets regularly throughout the year and more awards of the executive directors.
The policies adopted by frequently where business needs require.
The Board has a the committee together with details of the directors schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the remuneration and service contract terms are set out in the requirement for Board approval on these matters is directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 32.
The communicated throughout the senior management of the committee meets on an ad hoc basis as necessary and is Group.
Matters reserved for the Board include approval of the advised by New Bridge Street Consultants, an independent Groups strategy, setting and monitoring performance against external firm, who were appointed during the year to provide the annual budget, business acquisitions and disposals, advice on executive remuneration matters.
material capital commitments, appointments to subsidiary No director is involved in deciding his or her own company boards and commencing or settling litigation.
remuneration, whether determined by the committee or, in Prior to each meeting directors are sent an agenda the case of the non-executives, by the Board.
The current together with additional information, including financial members of the remuneration committee are Nigel Wayne reports, as appropriate for the meeting.
Directors have Committee Chairman, Roger Ames and Tim Ryan.
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take, at the Companys expense, independent 24 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued The nomination committee Operational risks The nomination committee is responsible for reviewing the Operational management are responsible for the composition and structure of the Board and for identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to recommending Board appointments and interviewing their area of business and, in conjunction with the Board, for potential candidates.
The committee meets on an ad hoc designing and operating suitable internal controls.
The senior basis as required.
The current members of the nomination management team, which includes the executive directors committee are Tim Ryan Committee Chairman, Roger Ames, who report directly to the Board, are responsible for Nigel Wayne and Jane Cavanagh.
The committee consults monitoring and controlling all operational risks.
with the executive directors when considering appointments The Board regularly reviews risk summaries so that and external search consultants are used to ensure that a prompt action can be taken in an appropriate manner.
In wide range of candidates can be considered.
addition, the internal control process is supported by: a a comprehensive financial control and rolling forecast Operational management system: The executive directors are supported by a team of senior b a flat management structure which facilitates open and managers who are responsible for assisting in the timely communication: development and achievement of the Groups corporate c sophisticated project management systems to strategy, business plans and budgets and for reviewing coordinate and control key development and publishing operational and financial performance.
The management activities: team, together with the executive directors are responsible d an experienced legal function that supports the Groups for agreeing and monitoring policies and other matters not business needs: and reserved for the Board.
e a programme of commercial insurance covering key risks including intellectual property matters, product liability Relations with shareholders and business interruption.
The executive directors meet regularly with institutional The Board has considered the need for an internal audit shareholders, fund managers and analysts and are available facility and has determined that the scale and nature of the to answer questions from private shareholders.
Group does not justify a dedicated function at the present Communication with all shareholders is facilitated by the time.
issue of full year and interim reports which, together with other corporate information and press releases, are available Compliance status on the Companys website: www.
During the period under review the Board reviewed the The AGM provides a forum for all shareholders to raise Groups compliance with all aspects of the Code resulting in issues with the directors.
The notice convening the meeting a number of changes detailed above and in the remuneration is normally issued at least 20 working days in advance and report.
The provisions in the Code with which the Company separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially did not comply throughout the period ending 30 June 2006 separate issue.
were as follows: a Jane Cavanagh fulfilled the roles of both Chief Executive Risk management and internal controls and Chairman prior to the appointment of Tim Ryan as The directors are responsible for the Groups system of non-executive Chairman which was announced on internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The roles are now clearly segregated.
such a system can only provide reasonable, but not b The Chief Executive was a member of the audit and absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
remuneration committees prior to 30 June 2006.
Both There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and committees now consist solely of the three nonmanaging the significant risks faced by the Group, in executive directors.
compliance with the guidance on Internal Control: Guidance c Tim Ryan and Nigel Wayne were not previously appointed for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report for specified terms but, as with executive directors, published in September 1999.
This process, which is tied retire by rotation every three years.
The terms of closely to operations, is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The engagement of the non-executive directors were updated key procedures that the directors have established to ensure during the year to fully comply with best practice and all risk management and internal controls are effective are as requirements of the Code, including specified terms of follows: appointment.
d Tim Ryan and Nigel Wayne have previously been awarded Risk identification share options.
The Board has determined that no further The Group has identified its major risks and has policies in share options will be granted to any non-executive place to avoid and or mitigate those risks.
Existing options held by Tim Ryan and Nigel members of staff participate in this process and the results Wayne granted in 2001 will be exercised or will lapse in are reported to the Board.
e The Chief Executives service contract contained a threeyear notice period.
With effect from 1 April 2006 the notice period has been reduced to one-year following a SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25 Corporate governance continued review of remuneration practices relating to executive Going concern directors as set out in the remuneration report.
The directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have f The Board has yet to implement a self-evaluation a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate process.
resources to continue in operational existence for the For the period under review, the Company was defined as foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt a smaller company under the Code, being one that was the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
below the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting year.
Details of directors remuneration and related matters are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 32.
External audit matters Independence The audit committee has sole responsibility for assessing the independence of the external auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP.
Each year the committee undertakes to: 4 Seek reassurance that the external auditors and their staff have no family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company.
To this end the committee requires the external auditor and their associates to confirm this in writing, and detail the procedures which the auditor has carried out in order to make this confirmation.
4 Check that all partners engaged in the audit process are rotated at least every five years.
4 Assess the likely impact on the auditors independence and objectivity before awarding them any contract for additional services.
4 Have as a standing agenda item auditor independence issues at each audit committee meeting.
26 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
