Board of directors and senior management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 30 1 Adam Broadbent 69 8 Karen Jones BA 49 Chairman Non-Executive Director Joined Board in November 1997.
Previously Chief Executive officer of Spirit Previously a Director of Schroders plc where he was latterly Group Group Limited.
Co-founded Caf Rouge and the Pelican Group Managing Director of Investment Banking based in New York.
Non-Executive Director of HBOS plc since January Currently a Non-Executive Director of Capital One Bank Europe plc 2006 and Gondola Holdings plc since October 2005.
Board member and of the Academy of Ancient Music.
Chairman of the Nomination of Royal National Theatre Enterprises Limited.
A. R. N. 9 Pierre Danon 50 2 Alun Cathcart 62 Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman Joined Board in April 2004.
Senior Adviser at JP Morgan plc.
Joined Board in June 2005 and appointed Deputy Chairman in Previously Chief Operating officer of Cap Gemini in Paris and prior February 2006.
Chairman of The Rank Group Plc, Palletways Group to that, Chief Executive officer of the retail division of BT Group plc.
Limited and Avis Europe plc.
Spent 14 years in executive positions Worked for Xerox for 19 years and became Senior Vice President within the transportation industry before joining Avis Europe in 1980. of Xerox Corporation before becoming President of Xerox Europe.
Led the Avis Group from 1983-1999 as Chief Executive, and as A. R. N. Chairman from 1998-2002.
Following appointments as Deputy Chairman and Interim Chief Executive in 2002-2004 he was again 10 Rita Clifton 48 appointed Chairman in May 2004.
A. R. N. Non-Executive Director Joined Board in June 2005.
Began her career in advertising, 3 Tom Moloney 47 becoming Vice Chairman and Executive Planning Director at Saatchi Group Chief Executive & Saatchi.
In 1997 joined Interbrand Ltd as Chief Executive, Joined Emap in 1981.
Appointed Group Managing Director of Emap becoming Chairman in 2002.
Currently a Non-Executive Director Metro and Elan in 1989.
Appointed Chief Executive of Consumer of DSG International plc, and Non-Executive Chairman of Populus Magazines UK and joined Board in 1995.
Joined Emap USA in Limited, pollster to The Times.
A. R. N. April 1999 as Chief Operating Officer and appointed President and Chief Executive officer in October 1999.
Appointed as Group 11 Derek Carter 56 Chief Operating officer in May 2001 and promoted to Group Chief Chief Executive, Emap Communications Executive in January 2003.
In 1989 became Managing Director of Emap Maclaren and in 1997 was appointed Chief Executive of Emap 4 Ian Grifths MA ACA 39 Communications, which brings together the Groups business Group Finance Director magazines, trade exhibitions, conferences and information products.
Joined Emap in 1994 and after several years at Emap Chairman of the Periodical Publishers Association PPA 2001-2002 Communications became Group Head of Finance before being and a Director since 1997. appointed Director of Financial Control in 2001.
Appointed Group Finance Director in October 2005.
Before joining Emap 12 Dee Ford 45 he worked at Ernst & Young in the Audit and Corporate Finance Group Managing Director, Emap Radio departments.
T. Joined Emap in 1994 as Managing Director of Rock FM.
Became Yorkshire regional Managing Director before being promoted to 5 David Rough BSc FCII 55 Managing Director of Emap Radio.
In 2000 became Group Managing Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Director of Emap Performance and in 2005 was appointed Group Joined Board in February 2002.
Previously a Director of Legal & General Managing Director of Emap Radio.
Currently a Non-Executive Director of BBA Group plc, Land Securities Group plc, Xstrata plc and Mithras Investment Trust plc.
Key to Committees Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee R. Member of the Remuneration Committee 6 Paul Keenan 42 N. Member of the Nomination Committee Chief Executive, Emap Consumer Media T. Member of the Treasury Committee Joined Board in April 2005.
After five years at Emap Communications joined the Consumer Division in 1997 as Acting Managing Director The primary objective of the Executive Board is to ensure of Emap Elan and in 1998 moved to Emap Metro as Managing strategic and operational alignment across the Group.
Appointed Chief Executive of Emap Digital in April 2000.
This enables timely decision-making, risk assessment In September 2001, appointed Chief Executive of Emap Consumer and resource allocation.
Currently a Board Member of the Periodical Publishers Association PPA.
The Executive Board, which meets every two weeks, consists of Tom Moloney, Ian Griffiths, Paul Keenan Chief Executive of 7 Andrew Harrison BA MBA 49 Emap Consumer Media, Derek Carter Chief Executive of Emap Non-Executive Director Communications, Dee Ford Group Managing Director of Emap Joined Board in March 2002.
Chief Executive officer of easyJet plc Radio, and Nick Folland Company Secretary and Group Legal since December 2005.
Previously Chief Executive of RAC plc and, Director.
Arnaud fide Puyfontaine Prsident Directeur Gnral prior to that, a Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc, having worked of Emap France was a member of the Executive Board until for the Courtaulds Group since 1986.
Chairman of the Audit the end of January 2006.
Other members of senior management Committee.
A. R. N. T. are invited to attend Executive Board meetings as appropriate.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 31 Directors report and corporate governance The Directors of Emap plc present their Annual Report and the audited The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Company has, with one exception, complied with the provisions recommended in the Code and the following sets out a description Principal activities and future developments of how it has done this.
It includes full disclosure of the area in which The Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which operate principally the Company is non-compliant, and an explanation as to why this is so.
in the UK and France, have market leading positions in consumer and The Company confirms that it is not in full compliance with the Code trade magazines, exhibitions, conferences, information services, commercial because of the Chairmans continued membership of its Remuneration radio and music TV.
A review of the businesses activities during the year and Audit Committees, but would note that the Financial Review and future prospects are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Council indicated an intention to relax this prohibition in relation to Operating & financial review on pages 4 to 24.
Remuneration Committees in its January 2006 consultation document proposing changes to the Code.
Business Review The information that fulls the Companies Act requirements of the b Directors Business Review can be found in the Operating & financial review i The Board on pages 4 to 28.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success of the the Company can be found on pages 8 and 9.
Its role is to provide continuous effective leadership and to ensure appropriate controls are in place to assess, manage and monitor This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with risk and operational and financial performance.
It is responsible for respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing Emap.
By their setting the Companys strategic aims and ensuring the right financial nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty and human resources are in place to achieve the Companys objectives.
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may The Board is responsible for reviewing managements performance and or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could setting the Companys values and standards.
The Directors act in the cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those best interests of the Company, mindful of their duties to shareholders expressed or implied by these forward looking statements and forecasts.
but also with consideration of other stakeholders.
No assurances can be given that the forward looking statements are reasonable as they can be affected by a wide range of variables.
The The Board Manual incorporates a formal schedule of matters that can forward looking statements reect the knowledge and information only be decided by the Board.
It establishes the Boards responsibility for available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and will not Group strategy, for monitoring and reviewing internal control procedures be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be and ensuring systematic contact with shareholders.
The schedule of construed as a profit forecast.
reserved matters requires that the Board approves, among other things, all interim and annual results, the Companys dividend policy, shareholder Results and dividends circulars and listing particulars, all matters relating to share capital, the The Groups profit for the year amounted to 126m 2005: 101m and annual budget, and major capital projects, investments and commitments.
has been transferred to reserves.
The Board delegates its authority for certain matters, within clearly dened limits, to management who exercise that authority primarily The final dividend recommended by the Directors is 21.4 pence per through the Executive Board and the four Divisional Boards.
There are share which, together with the interim dividend of 8.6 pence, makes a clearly dened levels of delegated authority covering expenditure and total dividend for the year of 30.0 pence per share.
Subject to shareholders investment which are reviewed at least annually by the Board.
approval, the final dividend will be paid on 31 July 2006 to members on the register on 30 June 2006.
The Board meets each month, except August, with additional meetings being held when necessary.
Board papers are circulated to Directors Share capital properly in advance of each meeting.
The Board holds a strategy meeting Details of all changes to the Companys share capital during the year once a year, at which it considers the future direction of the Group.
The are shown in Note 28 on page 76.
Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors annually with the Chairman leading these meetings.
The independent Non-Executive Corporate governance Directors also meet, annually, without the Chairman in attendance to assess a Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Board balance and independence and to monitor whether any one The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Senior Independent governance are maintained by Emap.
The Board endorses, with the one Director chairs this meeting.
In addition to this, the Senior Independent exception detailed below, the main and supporting principles and the Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact provisions set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance through the normal channels of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive of the Financial Reporting Council the Code which was published or the Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such on 1 July 2003. contact is inappropriate.
The Company applies the principles of the Code through its own behaviour, Responsibilities are delegated to the four committees of the Board: the by monitoring corporate governance best practice and by adopting Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination Committee: appropriate recommendations of relevant bodies such as the Institute of and the Treasury Committee.
The Board sets the terms of reference for Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and the Institute of Chartered these committees, which are formally documented and are available from the Accountants of England and Wales.
The Boards policies and procedures Company Secretary, at the Companys registered ofce, on request and on are documented in a board manual Board Manual which sets out the roles the Companys website, www.
Although committee meetings are and delegated authorities applying to Directors and the Groups Main, not closed to non-member Directors, no Director can attend meetings where Executive and Divisional Boards.
The Board Manual is updated whenever he could have a conict of interest.
Further details of the committees necessary, and formally submitted for approval by the Board on an activities are described later in this report on pages 34 to 36. annual basis.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 32 b Directors continued a member of its principal committees and will continue to chair the i The Board continued Nomination Committee although the consideration of his successors During the period under review, there were 11 meetings of the Board, appointment was led by David Rough, the Senior Independent Director.
three meetings of the Audit Committee, six meetings of the Remuneration The Board believes that the transparency of its committees activities Committee and three meetings of the Nomination Committee.
Other to all Directors is in the interests of shareholders.
It ensures a good than as noted below, there was full attendance at these meetings flow of information amongst all Board members and thereby enhances by the relevant Directors: the efficiency of the Board and strengthens the Companys corporate governance framework by creating an even balance of power and Meeting Apologies received from influence throughout the Board.
The Board actively encourages all Non-Executive Directors to become members of its principal Main Board, 12 July 2005 Pierre Danon and David Rough committees and at present, all Non-Executive Directors are members of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees.
Main Board, 15 September 2005 Pierre Danon and Andrew Harrison Main Board, 12 October 2005 Alun Cathcart The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such Main Board, 7 December 2005 Alun Cathcart, Rita Clifton and as marketing, consumer business, customer focus, corporate finance, Karen Jones general finance, corporate governance and international business.
Main Board, 23 February 2006 Karen Jones and David Rough They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations in relation to the development of strategy and operational Audit Committee, 16 May 2005 Pierre Danon and financial performance.
It is the Boards opinion that all those Non-Executive Directors who served throughout the period under If Directors are unable to attend a meeting they are encouraged to review were independent in accordance with the Code.
At the date provide feedback on the relevant papers beforehand to the Chairman, of his appointment, the Chairman was deemed independent.
the relevant Committee Chairman, the Group Chief Executive or the Company Secretary, as they see t. iv Appointments to the Board There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new ii Chairman and Group Chief Executive Directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separately the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process was followed this held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly set out in the Board year when the Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman were each Manual.
The Chairmans responsibility for the running of the Board is appointed.
In the case of the Group Finance Director this began with an clearly segregated from the role of the Group Chief Executive, who has evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing on executive responsibility for the Companys operations.
the Board, effected through a series of meetings between the Committee Chairman, representing the views of the Board, and an external search iii Board balance and independence consultant.
A description of the role and capabilities required was The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year, together prepared and a list of candidates identied.
A shortlist met with the Group with their biographical details, are shown on pages 30 and 31.
Gary Hughes Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and an Executive served as Group Finance Director until 6 April 2005, and, as this was Director.
Following these meetings, the Nomination Committee formally only one week of the period under review, his biographical details are met to nalise a recommendation to the Board.
Mr Hughes resigned from the Board on 6 April 2005, at which point he handed over duties to Ian Grifths.
Mr Grifths assumed The Board believes that Mr Grifths brings strong technical financial the position of Acting Group Finance Director on 6 April 2005, and was skills and an in-depth experience of the industry in general, and Emap appointed Group Finance Director on 20 October 2005. in particular, and recommends his reappointment to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the date of this report, at least half of the Board consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors, as was the case throughout the As part of the Boards orderly succession planning, Alun Cathcart year under review.
Currently the Board is made up of the Chairman was promoted to Deputy Chairman in February 2006, and will become Adam Broadbent, the Deputy Chairman Alun Cathcart, the Group Chairman upon Adam Broadbents retirement at the conclusion of the Chief Executive Tom Moloney, two Executive Directors Ian Grifths, forthcoming AGM.
Alun Cathcart was identified as the potential future Group Finance Director and Paul Keenan, Chief Executive of Emap Chairman when he was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Consumer Media, and five Non-Executive Directors Rita Clifton, June 2005.
When considering Alun Cathcarts appointment as Deputy Pierre Danon, Andrew Harrison, Karen Jones and David Rough, the Chairman and subsequently Chairman, the Nomination Committee Senior Independent Director.
met with the Senior Independent Director chairing the proceedings and neither Adam Broadbent nor Alun Cathcart took any part in the During the year under review, a number of appointments were made to process.
One-on-one meetings were also undertaken with each the Board to achieve the membership set out above.
Paul Keenan was Director by David Rough.
Mr Cathcarts promotion was recommended appointed on 19 April 2005, Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton joined on to the Board following a period of some eight months during which 17 June 2005 with Mr Cathcarts promotion to Deputy Chairman taking he was able to assess the Group and the other Directors were able place on 24 February 2006 and Ian Grifths was appointed as Group to establish sound working relationships with him.
In addition, the Finance Director on 20 October 2005.
Nomination Committee ensured that Mr Cathcart could commit sufficient time to the role.
The Board believes that strength of character and independence of judgement and opinion are more important than absolute numbers on The terms and conditions of appointment of each Director will be the Board and it is satisfied that no individual or group has unfettered available for inspection at the AGM, and are also available during normal powers of decision or unequal access to information.
The Board business hours at the Companys registered ofce.
intends to continue its current practices and the Chairman will remain Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 33 Directors report and corporate governance b Directors continued the introduction of a Non-Executive Divisional Chief Executive buddy iv Appointments to the Board continued system enabling Non-Executive Directors to deepen their understanding During the year, the Board conducted its annual people review focused of particular parts of the Groups operational businesses.
upon Emaps senior management team, led by the Groups Human Resources Director.
This review was designed to ensure the necessary As far as individual Directors are concerned, ordinarily each is subject leadership resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
to a formal appraisal prior to being proposed for reappointment by shareholders.
Each Director is also subject to a formal appraisal at the v Information and professional development completion of their first year of service.
As a consequence, Alun Cathcart, The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the Directors receive Rita Clifton and Paul Keenan were appraised in 2006 following the end accurate, timely and clear information with all Board and committee of their first year of service, and David Rough has been given an appraisal papers being issued in advance of meetings by the Company Secretary.
In addition, all Directors are subject to informal In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular appraisal by the Chairman where necessary.
contact with the Group Chief Executive and the other Directors to discuss specic issues.
To ensure there is no over-reliance on the opinions of the Each of the Companys Executive Directors is also subject to an annual Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive takes responsibility for appraisal of their performance as executives that is conducted by the ensuring frequent contact between the Directors and senior management Group Chief Executive or, in his case, by the Chairman.
of the Companys operating divisions.
The operating divisions senior management teams present to the Board on a regular basis and a series vii Reappointment of opportunities exists throughout the year for informal contact.
Directors Any Director joining the Board after the previous AGM has to retire and are free to meet individual members of the senior management team seek re-election.
In addition, the Companys Articles require that one third and have done so during the year under review.
Throughout the year, of the Board retires by rotation at each AGM.
The Articles also require Directors are encouraged to attend Emap events, exhibitions and awards.
that any Director not otherwise covered by these requirements must retire at the AGM three years after his appointment or last reappointment.
The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its Directors, At the AGM to be held on 13 July 2006, David Rough will retire by the identication of general training needs is best left to the individuals rotation under Articles 83 and 84 and offer himself for reappointment, discretion.
If any particular requirement is identied through the Boards having received an appraisal of his conduct as Director as set out above.
formal appraisal processes or by an individual Director, the Company Adam Broadbent and Karen Jones will also retire by rotation at the end makes the necessary resources available.
of the AGM but have chosen not to stand for reappointment.
Ian Grifths will offer himself for reappointment in accordance with Articles 81 and 82 As is the case with all Non-Executive Directors, on joining the Board, but, because he will only have served on the Board for a very limited time, Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton were provided with a full induction he has not been subject to appraisal except in his executive role.
programme including financial training, site visits and meetings with senior management.
Major shareholders and the Groups advisers were c Board committees provided with an opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive Directors.
The main activities of the Boards principal committees during the year This process was supported by brieng papers prepared by the Company are outlined below: Secretary in accordance with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators guidelines.
Nomination Undertook succession planning, including the Committee appointment of Alun Cathcart as Deputy Chairman The Company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on matters and Ian Grifths as Group Finance Director.
concerning governance and he ensures Board procedures are complied Remuneration Reviewed Executive Directors salary and bonus with.
All Directors have access to his advice and a procedure also exists Committee levels, made the 2005 bonus awards and set the for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys financial criteria and Executive Directors objectives expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The appointment for the 2006 bonus awards, reviewed the current levels and removal of the Company Secretary and his remuneration are matters of Directors shareholdings, introduced time prorating for the Board as a whole.
for the Performance Related Pay Plan and formalised the guidelines for that plan to be followed in the event vi Performance evaluation of a change of control of Emap plc.
A formal appraisal process for the Board as a whole and its principal committees, facilitated by the Groups Human Resources Director, Audit Addressed matters such as year end accounting and was conducted in the prior year.
Because of the number of Board changes Committee audit issues, taxation issues and risks, preliminary undertaken during the year under review and the forthcoming appointment results presentations, the Companys shared service of a new Chairman, a formal appraisal has not been undertaken this year.
centre, and the internal audit process.
Also undertook The Board believes it is better for this to be conducted once the changes a people skills audit amongst the financial community have been given time to take effect.
Conscious of the importance of and conducted a review of the 2005 external audit.
performance evaluations, the Board has undertaken a formal examination of the actions arising from the previous appraisal, noting the progress made during the year, and a number of additional actions were identied i The Nomination Committee as a result.
A combination of the above has led to: Composition: Adam Broadbent Chairman, Pierre Danon, Karen Jones, Andrew Harrison, Tom Moloney and David Rough were members of the meetings being held before selected Main Board presentations, Nomination Committee throughout the year.
Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton allowing Non-Executive Directors to meet members of the Groups were appointed to the Committee on 9 November 2005 and Gary Hughes senior management in a more informal setting: resigned from the Committee on 6 April 2005 when he stood down from the Board.
With the exception of Adam Broadbent, Gary Hughes and informal dinners have been convened with local senior management Tom Moloney, were all considered independent Non-Executive Directors teams, allowing discussion outside of the more formal board as prescribed by the Code.
room environment: and Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 34 c Board committees continued b Going concern basis i The Nomination Committee continued Role: The Nomination Committees primary purpose is to maintain the The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have balance and effectiveness of the Board, identify those skills needed and the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the individuals who might best perform them.
The Committee monitors the Board foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going structure, size and composition and it leads the process for nominating concern basis in preparing the accounts.
individuals for election to the Board see paragraph b iv above.
In making appointments, the Committee considers the capabilities required from ii Audit Committee and auditors potential candidates such as an individuals independence of mind and, Composition: Andrew Harrison Chairman, Adam Broadbent, where a non-executive appointment is being made, the time available to full Pierre Danon, Karen Jones and David Rough were members of the the role.
The Committee always uses professional, independent external Committee throughout the year and Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton were search consultants when making Non-Executive Director appointments.
appointed to the Committee on 9 November 2005.
With the exception of Adam Broadbent, all are considered independent Non-Executive Directors ii The Remuneration Committee as prescribed by the Code.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee Composition: David Rough Chairman, Pierre Danon, Karen Jones, Chairman holds appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to Andrew Harrison and Adam Broadbent were members of the full his duties.
Remuneration Committee throughout the year and Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton were appointed to the Committee on 9 November 2005.
In addition to Executive Directors, senior management, including With the exception of Adam Broadbent, all are considered independent the Head of Internal Audit, as well as the Companys auditors, Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
 LLP PwC, attend Audit Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Committee also meets with each Role: The role of the Remuneration Committee is described in the of the Head of Internal Audit and the Companys auditors separately and Remuneration report on page 38. in the absence of management as necessary.
iii The Treasury Committee Role: The Committee, which meets at least three times a year, is The Board delegates various operational matters relating to banking and responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial treasury issues to the Treasury Committee, which is normally comprised of statements: reviewing internal financial controls and internal control and two Executive and two Non-Executive Directors.
These operational matters risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness are clearly dened in the Groups treasury policies, which are regularly of the Companys internal audit function: making recommendations to reviewed by the Board and included in the Board Manual.
Matters delegated the Board concerning the appointment of the Groups external auditors include debt funding, investment, hedging and banking arrangements.
including their remuneration and terms of engagement : reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence: and implementing the d Accountability and audit Companys policy on the engagement of the Companys auditors to i Financial reporting perform non-audit work.
a Directors responsibilities for the preparation of financial statements Auditor independence: The Committee monitors the Companys The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each safeguards against compromising the external auditors objectivity and financial year which present fairly the state of affairs of the Company independence by performing an annual review of non-audit services and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the income, total provided to the Group and their cost: reviewing whether the auditors recognised income and expense and cash ows of the Group for that believe there are any relationships that may affect their independence: period.
The Directors confirm that appropriate accounting policies have and obtaining written conrmation from the auditors that they are been used and applied consistently, and reasonable judgements and independent.
estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Directors also confirm that the In accordance with the guidance contained in the Smith Report Audit financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Committees Combined Code Guidance, Emap also ensures the the Companies Act 1985, and all applicable accounting standards have continued independence of its audit firm through the rotation of the been followed.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate lead audit partner every five years.
Consequently a new partner has taken accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the over this role with effect from the end of the 2005 06 audit.
Group and the investment of shareholders.
They also take reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Committee has advised the Board that the current level and nature of non-audit services provided The Directors are confident that, so far as they are aware, there is by the Companys auditors which are fully disclosed in Note 5 on page no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are 60 do not affect their independence and objectivity.
The Directors have taken all steps that ought to have been taken in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Policy on the provision of non-audit services by auditors: During the year, information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware the Committee has continued to monitor the Companys procedures for of that information.
maintaining and safeguarding the independence of the Companys external auditors.
The Companys formal policy concerning the provision of non-audit This Annual Report, together with other financial information, services identies three categories of accounting services: audit-related presentations and announcements, is available on the Groups website, services, which the Companys auditors provide such as interim and full www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Emap plc website year reporting : prohibited services, which the Companys auditors may is the responsibility of the Directors.
Legislation in the UK concerning never provide such as acquisition due diligence : and potential services, the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from which the Companys auditors may in certain circumstances provide, subject legislation in other jurisdictions.
to tender and fee constraints such as tax advisory services.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 35 Directors report and corporate governance d Accountability and audit continued a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment of the principal ii Audit Committee and auditors continued financial and IT controls across business units, with the evaluation Fees charged by the Companys auditors in respect of non-audit of risk forming an integral part of this assessment: services require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where: i the fees charged do not exceed 10% of the most recent audit fee or a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes an annual 80,000 whichever is the greater and the value of the transaction under budget approved by the Board: review of monthly variances against review does not exceed 10m or ii the auditors are acting as Emaps budget at title product, Company, Divisional and Group levels with, reporting accountants, in which case the fees are deemed to have been where necessary, corrective action supplemented by quarterly pre-approved.
All fees deemed to have been pre-approved are subsequently forecasting of annual performance: ratied by the Audit Committee.
a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment, for the evaluation As the Companys auditors are prevented from providing prohibited services, of the effectiveness of procedures and controls in relation to competitive tender processes are run as thought appropriate, with PwC compliance risk: being prohibited from participating.
As a result, Ernst & Young LLP are Emaps preferred provider of transaction support for acquisitions and due identication of key operational risks and development of mitigation diligence, post-acquisition balance sheet reviews, internal audit, forensic plans by the Divisional Boards reported on an ongoing basis: accounting and investigation services: Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte and Hay Group Hay provide remuneration consultancy services: and the regular reviews of both forward looking and historic key Company maintains an independent panel of legal advisers that does not performance indicators: include PwC.
The Companys auditors are also prohibited from providing human resource and information technology advisory services.
provision to the Board and management of relevant, accurate, timely information based on solid management information systems which Provision of potential services by the Groups auditors is subject to are continually being improved and updated: ongoing review and monitoring by the Audit Committee.
The mandate to provide one such service, tax advice, was awarded to PwC following monthly reports to the Board from the Group Chief Executive, the a rigorous and formal tender process.
As PwC are also the Companys Group Finance Director and the Executive Board members: and auditors, the Committee has introduced further safeguards and controls by pre-approving set levels of fee expenditure above which the formal arrangements for staff to raise, in confidence, any concerns engagement of PwC for further tax-related work has to be referred over financial reporting and other matters.
back to it, or to the Main Board.
The internal control environment will continue to be monitored and reviewed Systems of internal control: The Board has delegated responsibility by the Committee which will, where necessary, ensure improvements are for reviewing the Groups system of internal control and for regularly implemented.
Associated undertakings are not treated as part of the Group monitoring its effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The control for the purposes of the internal control review.
system is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives and any such system can Internal audit: The Committee receives detailed reports from the Head only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material of Internal Audit which identify any significant risk and compliance issues misstatement or loss.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed and management plans in place to address them.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, the scope and activities of the internal audit function to ensure they are operational and compliance controls and risk management in accordance appropriate to the key risks facing the Group and sufficient to assess with the Code for the period from 1 April 2005 to the date of approval of the effectiveness and adequacy of the Groups material operational and this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identied financial controls, systems and practices.
The internal audit function assists during this review but, as required by the revised Turnbull Guidance on the Committee in meeting its governance and regulatory responsibilities Internal Control, appropriate action would be taken if necessary.
and assists management by enhancing the control environment.
The Company operates a continuous process of identifying, evaluating e Relations with shareholders and managing the significant risks the Group faces which has been in Dialogue with institutional shareholders place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Under the guidance of the Investor Relations Director, communication Report.
The process, which complies with the requirements of the Internal with major shareholders, analysts and the financial press is maintained Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, includes the through a programme of one-on-one meetings, presentations and news following controls: releases.
To support this process, the Chairman has written to the Groups major shareholders inviting them to meetings with him and the Senior dened organisational structure with appropriate delegation of authority: Independent Director and to meet the Companys new Deputy Chairman should they wish.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear attend the Companys half-yearly presentations of results to the guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: investment community, at which representatives of approximately 70 investors and analysts are normally present.
This communications clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management programme is designed to ensure a thorough understanding by the for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production investment community of the Groups business, its key performance and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management indicators and its strategy.
information: the control of key financial risks through clear authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties: Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 36 e Relations with shareholders continued Substantial shareholdings Dialogue with institutional shareholders continued As at 23 May 2006 the Company had received the following notications The Board places importance on understanding shareholder views from financial institutions under Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 and messages and believes the best way to achieve this is through in respect of their own interests in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary independent, unattributed feedback, which is provided by the Companys share capital: brokers.
The feedback provided to the Board details key analyst and shareholder meetings and ensures shareholders views and messages % of share are clearly understood and communicated, unedited, to the Board as a Shares capital whole.
The Board additionally welcomes and encourages the participation Aviva plc 19,733,011 7.62 of all shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Barclays plc 26,592,740 10.27 Legal & General Group plc 10,031,201 3.90 Directors interests A statement of Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company appears in the Remuneration report on pages 44 and 45. Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to At the 59th AGM of the Company, to be held at The Holiday Inn, inspection at the Companys registered ofce, contains full details of Coram Street, London, WC1N 1HT on 13 July 2006, a number of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
In the year resolutions will be proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice under review, no Director had any interest in any other share capital of of Meeting, which is in the circular enclosed with this Annual Report the Company or any other Group company, nor did any Director have a and includes a letter from the Chairman explaining the business to be material interest in any contract of signicance to the Group.
In July 2005, shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 25.78m Ordinary Shares.
This authority was still valid Donations as at 31 March 2006 and will expire at the conclusion of the 2006 AGM.
The Group has made no political donations in the year.
Details of the A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at that wide and varied community and charitable involvement of the Groups meeting.
The Company confirms that it complies with all the Code companies can be found in the section headed Our responsibilities provisions concerning constructive use of its AGM.
Auditors Employees Following a recommendation of the Audit Committee to the Board, It is the Groups aim that recruitment, training, development and a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors to the Company will be put promotion should be determined solely on skill, ability and other to the shareholders at the AGM.
The resolution to appoint PwC will requirements relevant to a job and in accordance with the laws of the propose that they hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general country concerned.
Disabled people are given the same consideration meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
A second as others and, depending on their skills and abilities, will enjoy the same resolution will propose that the Directors be authorised to determine training, development and prospects as other staff.
Staff who become the level of Auditors remuneration.
disabled during their employment with Emap will be retained wherever possible and encouraged to develop their careers.
Further information Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2006. in respect of employee involvement and the workplace in general can be found in the section headed Our responsibilities on pages 25 to 28 and on the Companys website at www.
Creditor payment policy The Company recognises the benets to be derived from maintaining Nick Folland good relationships with its suppliers.
It is the Companys policy that Company Secretary payment is made on time, provided suppliers perform in accordance with agreed terms.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 21 days 2005: 15 days of purchases.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 37 Remuneration and related matters The Directors present their Remuneration report for the year ended The current policy aims to provide a balance between xed and variable 31 March 2006.
This report will be submitted to the forthcoming AGM compensation for each Executive Director, and the split between the two in July 2006 for approval.
for the period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006 or, where applicable, for the period of service as a Director during that period, is disclosed on 1 Changes to the Board of Emap plc page 46.
Current policy in respect of long-term incentive plans is to use For details of changes to the Board in the period under review, please a scheme that aligns the long-term interests of Executive Directors with see page 33 of the Directors report.
Mr Hughes was a Director of the those of shareholders and that provides exceptional rewards only for Company for the first six days of the period under review only.
Directors are encouraged by the Companys short length of time in question, his details have only been included in the remuneration policy to retain a shareholding in the Company that is Notes to this report.
broadly equivalent to either their annual salary in the case of Executive Directors, or their fees in the case of Non-Executive Directors, but 2 Remuneration Committee the Committee recognises the extent of such a commitment and The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, chaired encourages the individual concerned to achieve this target over by David Rough, the authority to determine the specic remuneration a three-year timeframe.
packages of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In the latter case, the Committee undertakes this task without the Chairmans involvement.
The Committee intends that the general policy on remuneration described The Committee also monitors the level and structure of the remuneration above will continue in future years.
The Committees implementation of of the members of the Companys Executive Board.
David Rough, the Boards remuneration policy is described below.
It believes that the Karen Jones, Andrew Harrison, Pierre Danon and Adam Broadbent policy and its implementation is appropriate and will ensure that potential were members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year remuneration packages attract and retain the right calibre of executive in and Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton were appointed on 9 November 2005. a demanding marketplace.
With the exception of Adam Broadbent, all are considered independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
The rationale for his 3.2 Implementation of remuneration policy for Executive Directors continued membership of the Committee is set out on page 33 of the Details of the key elements of Executive Directors salary, incentives and Directors report.
Details of the number of Committee meetings held share interests at 31 March 2006 are given on pages 43 to 45 in the during the year, and the attendance of the Committee members are Notes to this report.
also disclosed on page 33 of the Directors report.
a Total remuneration The Committee has access to advice provided by the Group Chief In assessing the total level of remuneration for each Executive Director, the Executive, the Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and external Committee will, when appropriate, seek professional external advice or take advisers.
During the year, Deloitte continued to serve as adviser to the account of data published by leading compensation consultancy bodies.
Committee providing general advice in connection with the Companys remuneration policy and, in particular, its Executive Directors b Basic salary remuneration packages and incentive plans.
Deloitte also provided In determining basic salary, account is taken of individual performance unrelated organisational and information technology consulting services and responsibility, and the level of pay awards elsewhere in the Group.
Also during the year, the Committee appointed Hay It is the Companys policy to maintain base salaries at, or slightly below, to undertake a benchmarking review of the Chairmans and Deputy median market levels.
In addition to basic salary, Executive Directors Chairmans fees.
receive traditional benets in kind, principally a car allowance and private medical insurance.
This report is produced in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 introduced by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Salaries for Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually or when 2002 and contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
Tom Moloney and Paul Keenan The information subject to audit is listed in Notes a, b and c in the received no pay increase for the financial year under review.
Ian Grifths Notes to the Remuneration report on pages 43 to 45 only.
The report salary was increased to 340,000 on 20 October 2005, to reect his also explains how the Board has applied the Principles of the Code as appointment to the Board as Group Finance Director.
Mr Grifths salary they relate to Directors remuneration.
was benchmarked externally to confirm that it was at an appropriate level for his responsibilities.
3 Framework and policy on remuneration 3.1 Executive Directors Following a review of Executive Directors remuneration by Deloitte, the The broad framework of executive remuneration is established by Committee determined that the Executive Directors will receive no pay the Board.
It is the Boards policy to ensure that the total remuneration increase other than an RPI-based increase for the next financial year, offered to Executive Directors is sufficient to attract, retain and commencing on 1 April 2006.
This decision was inuenced by the fact motivate talented individuals key to the future success of the that salary increases to be awarded elsewhere in the Group during the Company, while at the same time avoiding paying more than is same period were also, on average, to be RPI-based.
The remuneration offered to Executive Directors is appropriate to the scale of their responsibility and it c Performance-related rewards ensures they identify with the interests of shareholders.
It also reects At-risk performance-related rewards were provided through the three-year the underlying performance of the business and each individuals Performance Related Pay Plan PRP and the annual cash bonus plan, personal performance.
the Senior Management Incentive Scheme SMIS.
The awards made under the five-year Equity Incentive Plan EIP and the three-year Emaps approach is to consider the effect on total remuneration when Executive Share Option Plan ESOP have now matured and no further making a decision which might impact on any one of its components.
awards were made under these schemes during the year under review.
In particular, the remuneration offered to Executive Directors provides for a significant element of at-risk performance-related reward, the majority The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys of which is dependent on the achievement of demanding performance all-employee share schemes which, in line with market practice, do not conditions, both short and long-term.
have performance conditions attached to them.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 38 3.2 Implementation of remuneration policy for Executive Directors per annum.
The other half of the performance award is dependent upon continued Emap being at or above median level in its TSR comparator group, with c Performance-related rewards continued 35% of the TSR-based element vesting for median performance and i Annual bonus SMIS full vesting for a top 20% ranking.
No part of the TSR-based element The level of reward granted under the annual SMIS is based on both of the performance award will vest if Emap is ranked below the median quantitative and qualitative objectives.
Quantitative objectives are based of the comparator group.
For each of the EPS and TSR elements of the on performance against corporate financial targets which include performance award, vesting between the levels identied above is underlying revenue and profit growth.
These targets are supplemented determined on a straight line basis.
by two overriding numerical thresholds for the Groups profit into cash conversion rate and profit before tax.
Qualitative objectives are 2005 08 determined by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis.
The PRP scheme was repeated in 2005, and an award was made in July to run for three years until 2008.
The award was made on the same basis In determining SMIS awards, the Remuneration Committee emphasises as in 2004, but with the alterations set out below.
the importance of empirical, objective measures of performance.
In the main, this is effected by weighting awards towards the quantitative The TSR comparator group was updated to reect any corporate measures, as demonstrated by the table below.
As far as qualitative mergers and acquisitions and changes to FTSE membership.
objectives are concerned, objective measurement is achieved through the use of external metrics such as 360-degree appraisals that gauge More rigorous EPS growth targets were established, with the third party opinions.
range being set at RPI 4% to RPI 8% RPI 4% delivering the minimum return on the performance award and RPI 8% Quantitative Qualitative the maximum.
objectives objectives Employees participating in the PRP for the first time in 2005 had the Tom Moloney 80% 20% first basic award payment made to them without having to defer half Ian Grifths 50% 50% of the SMIS awards they had already earned.
Participants receiving Paul Keenan 70% 30% their second PRP award in 2005 were obliged to defer half of the SMIS award they had already earned, which will accordingly be held This weighting reects Ian Grifths promotion to Group Finance Director in trust for the three years of the scheme.
during the year under review.
For the year commencing 1 April 2006, his weighting will be 70% in respect of quantitative objectives and 30% A time allocation mechanism was introduced for PRP awards as in respect of qualitative objectives.
follows: on a change of control of Emap plc, deferred shares will vest within six months from the date of change of control.
A proportion of the The upper limit for an award under the SMIS during the year under review matching shares will also vest in this timeframe but the award will be was 80% of basic salary for Tom Moloney and 70% of basic salary for prorated to the end of the next six-month period from the original date Ian Grifths and Paul Keenan.
These upper limits will remain for the year of grant.
A proportion of the performance award may also vest within commencing 1 April 2006. this timeframe and will be prorated in the same way.
This vesting will be subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that the ii Long-term incentive plans performance conditions described above have been met at the date of Performance Related Pay Plan PRP change of control.
The Remuneration Committee has also reserved the The PRP was approved at the 2004 AGM, and awards were made in discretion to vary these time allocations provided that any such variation 2004 and 2005.
The PRP consists of a basic award and a performance would not result in an increased award above the level currently available award.
Under the basic award, one half of an individuals bonus earned as a result of a straight application of the performance criteria already under the SMIS is delivered in Emap plc shares deferred for three years in place.
and an equivalent award matches these shares when they vest matching shares.
Additional shares of up to 250% of the basic award can be The Committee intends to repeat the operation of Emaps PRP scheme earned under the performance award if the Company meets stretching in the next financial year and to make awards on the same basis as for performance conditions over the three-year vesting period.
performance award is dependent upon Emaps total shareholder return TSR ranked against a comparator group of media companies and the During the year, the Committee considered whether the Group should alter other half is dependent upon Emaps earnings per share EPS growth.
its policy towards the matching shares element of PRP awards by imposing Minimum and maximum performance awards are given for each Executive performance conditions on future awards, and determined not to make Director in Note c on page 45. this change.
In making this determination, the Committee drew a distinction between the deferred bonus scheme operated by Emap and those that 2004 07 gift their matching shares to participants.
In Emaps case, participants must For the initial grant under the PRP scheme, the first basic award payment first earn their bonus and are then required to leave half of it in trust for was made to participants without the need for them to defer part of their three years.
This differs from the type of scheme in which an initial award SMIS award, compensating participants for the time delay from the last is gifted to participants because, in Emaps case, the bonus award used share scheme grant.
For that initial grant, the Committee established the to purchase deferred shares has already been subjected to rigorous following performance conditions.
Firstly, for the free grant of basic award performance conditions.
shares to vest, Emap must deliver compound EPS growth of above RPI over the three-year scheme period from 2004 07, with no performance Other than those grants made under PRP, no awards were made under award of any nature payable if this is not achieved.
Thereafter, half of any other long-term incentive plans during the year.
The Company intends the performance award is dependent on EPS results, with 35% of the to grant awards under the PRP scheme annually to provide appropriate EPS-based element vesting for EPS growth of RPI 3% per annum and phasing and to avoid any block grants being issued.
full vesting for RPI 8% per annum.
No part of the EPS-based element of the performance award will vest if EPS growth is less than RPI 3% Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 39 Remuneration and related matters 3.2 Implementation of remuneration policy for Executive Directors This ensures that Executive Directors are increasingly rewarded for continued outperforming the Companys peers with no rewards payable for below c Performance-related rewards continued median performance.
EPS is considered an appropriate performance Executive Share Option Plan ESOP measurement as it is based on the Companys underlying financial Awards under the ESOP were made in 2001 and 2002.
The Remuneration Committee believes EPS provides a of each three-year plan period, Executive Directors were granted an option direct link between Executive Directors remuneration and shareholders over shares to the maximum value of four times their salary.
Those options interests because any increase in the Companys EPS automatically were granted at market value and are exercisable at any time between produces greater income for shareholders.
the 3rd and 10th anniversary of grant, provided the performance target described below is achieved.
Upon payment of the option price i. e. the TSR measures the return provided from holding a share in the Company market value of the shares over which the option was granted at the grant over the performance period, taking into account the change in capital date, ownership of the shares will be transferred to the Executive Director.
value, dividends paid and any other capital changes.
The TSR calculations for PRP are produced independently by external advisers.
At the end of each three-year vesting period, Emaps position in terms of TSR in a league table of a peer group of 16 media companies The TSR comparator groups used for determining one half of the the League Table was determined.
The number of shares over which PRP performance awards for 2004 07 and 2005 08 are as follows: the option was exercisable for median performance, 8th place, was 50% with additional options exercisable on a pro rata basis up to 100% for 2004 07 2005 08 1st or 2nd place.
Following Emaps TSR rankings of 1st place and 6th Yell Group plc Euromoney Institutional Investor plc place in the League Table for the 2001 and 2002 grants, 100% and Euromoney Institutional Investor plc United Business Media plc 66.67% of the ESOP awards vested, respectively.
Aegis Group plc Yell Group plc United Business Media plc Aegis Group plc Options may be exercised within six months from the date of a change HIT Entertainment plc Daily Mail & General Trust plc of control of Emap plc.
Alternatively, if the new controlling company offers Informa plc Informa plc replacement options, those originally granted by Emap plc may be allowed Reuters Group plc Taylor Nelson Sofres plc to lapse for the replacement options offered.
Scottish Radio Holdings plc Chrysalis Group plc WPP Group plc WPP Group plc Equity Incentive Plan EIP Emap plc Reuters Group plc At the beginning of the EIP, Executive Directors agreed to invest a EMI Group plc Emap plc multiple of their salary in Emap shares.
Of this number, 75% could Pearson plc Pearson plc have come from an Executive Directors existing shareholding and the Daily Mail & General Trust plc Reed Elsevier plc remaining 25%, which had to be committed to the plan by 31 March Taylor Nelson Sofres plc GCap Media plc 2002, could be derived from the Companys other incentive plans or Reed Elsevier plc EMI Group plc purchased in the market.
At the end of the plan period in March 2005, ITV plc Johnston Press plc the Company matched the investment shares.
The matching multiple Trinity Mirror plc BSkyB Group plc ranged from three times for 1st place in the League Table to one times SMG plc St. Ives plc for 8th place, the vesting for intermediate places being determined on Johnston Press plc Trinity Mirror plc a proportionate basis.
Following Emaps TSR ranking of 5th place in St. Ives plc Photo-Me International plc the League Table, 68% of the EIP matching shares vested.
Chrysalis Group plc ITV plc Photo-Me International plc SMG plc iii All employee share plans BSkyB Group plc The Company operates two All Employee Share Ownership Plans: a free GWR Group plc share plan the Emap Share Plan and a partnership matching share plan Capital Radio plc Sharemap.
The Company also operates an Inland Revenue approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
Directors are encouraged by the Companys remuneration policy to retain These schemes are open to all employees with the Company under a shareholding in Emap plc that is broadly equivalent to either their annual certain eligibility criteria, including Executive Directors.
Under the Emap salary in the case of Executive Directors, or their fees in the case of Share Plan, eligible employees receive a number of free Emap shares Non-Executive Directors.
As at 31 March 2006, Tom Moloney, Ian Grifths which may be sold after three years or sold tax free after five years.
and Paul Keenan held shares equating to 4.7 times, 0.2 times and 1.1 times Under Sharemap, employees may invest up to 1,500 or 10% of their their basic salaries, respectively.
Any new Director will be encouraged to salary if less in Emap shares, and Emap matches these at a ratio of 1:1. build up a shareholding in line with the Companys policy, but the Committee The shares can be withdrawn with tax paid after three years and tax free recognises the extent of such a commitment and encourages the individual after five years.
Under the SAYE, employees contribute between 5 and concerned to achieve this target over a three-year timeframe.
250 per month into a savings contract with a maturity of three or five years.
On maturity, employees can buy Emap shares at a 20% discount v Incentive plans and the Code on the market price set at the start of the savings period.
The design and introduction of the SMIS pre-dates the issue of the Code and the Greenbury Code of Best Practice.
The Board believes, however, iv Incentive plans and identication with shareholders interests that the plan in its current form is fully compliant with the Provisions on The rewards available under PRP are subject to challenging performance the Design of Performance Related Remuneration contained in Schedule conditions determined by the Companys performance that are quantied A to the Code.
in terms of EPS growth and TSR ranking compared to a group of other media companies.
Companies included in the TSR comparisons are chosen by the Remuneration Committee with advice from the Companys brokers.
TSR is considered an appropriate measurement as it is based on comparative performance.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 40 3.2 Implementation of remuneration policy for Executive Directors 4 TSR indices 20012006 continued The graphs below show Emaps TSR performance over the five year d Headroom period ended 31 March 2006 in comparison to the FTSE All Share index The table below sets out the available dilution capacity for the Companys and the FTSE All Share Media index.
These indices have been chosen share schemes: because they represent both a measure of stocks in general and of those operating in the same sector as the Group.
2006 Total issued share capital as at 31 March 258.9m Total return indices Emap and FTSE All Share index All schemes: 140 10% in any consecutive 10 years 25.9m Remaining headroom 17.7m 120 Executive schemes: 5% in any consecutive 10 years 12.9m 100 Remaining headroom 8.9m Emap return index 80 In accordance with ABI Guidelines Principles and Guidelines on Executive FTSE All Share Remuneration December 2003 revised December 2005. return index 60 e Pensions 31 3 01 31 3 02 31 3 03 31 3 04 31 3 05 31 3 06 Throughout the year under review, each of Tom Moloney, Ian Grifths and Paul Keenan were members of Flexiplan, Emaps Inland Revenue approved defined contribution pension plan.
For the period from 1 April 2005 Total return indices Emap and FTSE All Share Media index or date of appointment as a Director, if later to 31 March 2006, the 140 Companys contributions for Executive Directors were 25% of basic salary for Tom Moloney and 20% of basic salary for Ian Grifths and Paul Keenan, 120 with a required 6% contribution from the Executive Director.
The other main features of this plan were a exible retirement age, life assurance cover of 100 four times plan pay, permanent health insurance in the event of ill-health 80 and a pension at retirement tailored to each Executive Directors needs.
60 Emap return index Prior to the Governments introduction of new pensions regulations FTSE All Share Media 40 in April 2006, the Committee reviewed the Groups pension return index arrangements for Executive Directors and other senior managers.
20 31 3 01 31 3 02 31 3 03 31 3 04 31 3 05 31 3 06 Under the Governments new regime, each individual has a pensions lifetime allowance LTA against which the total value of the benefits built up in his pension fund is tested.
Tom Moloney was adversely affected by this change, as his pension savings plan exceeded the 5 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors maximum.
To accommodate this, the Committee agreed to provide him The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is proposed by the with an alternative to his retirement planning scheme by offering a cash Chairman and Group Chief Executive and approved by the Board.
alternative to the pension contributions the Company would otherwise The Chairmans remuneration is proposed by the Group Chief Executive have made on his behalf.
This option will also be made available in the following consultation with the other Non-Executive Directors and future when any affected individuals pension savings reach 80% of approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Fees are agreed on a the LTA, providing some scope for them to adopt alternative savings standard basis for Non-Executive Directors with additional fees payable arrangements whilst still leaving room for future growth in their plans.
for those holding the responsibility of chairing the Audit and This cash alternative is cost neutral for Emap and, given the small Remuneration Committees.
number of individuals impacted, was the most efficient way for the Group to respond to the introduction of the LTA.
During the year, Hay was commissioned to conduct a benchmarking exercise covering the fees received by the Chairman, which were last Details of pension contributions are given on page 43. increased in 2005, and the Deputy Chairman.
This benchmarking was conducted against a sample of other large media and entertainment companies and against companies ranked 85 to 113 in the FTSE as at December 2005.
As a result of this exercise, the Chairman received no increase in his fees for the year under review, his fees remaining static at 175,000.
With effect from 24 February 2006, Alun Cathcarts fees increased to 120,000 per annum to reect his promotion to Deputy Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors fees remained static at 40,000, or 47,000 for those Non-Executive Directors who chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, nor do they have share options or participate in any Emap pension, share or incentive scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for two three-year terms, subject to Board and shareholder approval of reappointment at least every three years.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 41 Remuneration and related matters 5 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors continued 7 Policy on external appointments A third and final term of up to three years may be considered appropriate Emap recognises that exposure of its Executive Directors to other boards depending on circumstances and subject to Board and, if relevant, can broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive Directors are shareholder approval but subject to a particularly rigorous review.
therefore allowed to accept one non-executive appointment subject to the Boards approval although none are currently held by the Executive Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable without payment Directors.
Any fees for such external appointments would be payable or compensation by either the Company or the Director serving one to the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors all have standard letters of appointment in line with that recommended by the Code.
These appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and will be available at the Companys AGM.
6 Policy on Executive Directors service contracts Executive Directors have contracts that continue until their contractual retirement age of 60 unless terminated earlier by either party in accordance with the contract.
The period of notice is six months either way, with the Company able to pay remuneration, mainly potential salary and bonus, in lieu of that notice.
Tom Moloneys contract with the Company is dated 1 September 2001, Ian Grifths is dated 17 January 2003 and Paul Keenans is dated 28 May 2002.
In addition, at termination otherwise than for cause or voluntary resignation or similar reasons, the Company may make payment to the Executive Director of up to the value of six months salary, pension contributions, car allowance and medical benets.
Where the Company makes a payment in lieu of notice, a Director will therefore effectively receive a maximum of 12 months salary and benets on termination.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these arrangements strike a fair balance between the interests of shareholders and the need to provide suitable terms of employment to attract and retain the key executives upon whom the success of the Group depends.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 42 Notes to remuneration report a Remuneration i Emoluments The emoluments before share bonuses and pension contributions of the Directors of Emap plc are set out below.
These relate to the period from 1 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006 or, where applicable, for the period of service as a Director during that period.
Other Taxable 2006 2005 2 Fees Salary Bonus payments benets Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Directors Adam Broadbent 175 175 150 3 Alun Cathcart 39 39 4 Rita Clifton 32 32 Pierre Danon 40 40 35 Andrew Harrison 47 47 42 Karen Jones 40 40 35 David Rough 47 47 42 Total Non-Executive Directors 420 420 304 Executive Directors 5 Tom Moloney 536 56 10 602 635 6 Ian Grifths 152 53 4209 7 Paul Keenan 262 86 10 358 Executive Directors resigning from the Board during the year 8 Gary Hughes 5 5 826 Total Executive Directors 955 195 24 1,174 1,461 Total emoluments before share bonuses and pension contributions 420 955 195 24 1,594 9 Totals for prior year ended 31 March 2005 304 876 126 439 20 1,765 Gains made on the exercise of share options 2,456 ii Pension contributions 2006 2005 000 000 The Companys contributions to Flexiplan were as follows: Tom Moloney 134 66 6 Ian Grifths 30 7 Paul Keenan 52 8 Gary Hughes 1 41 217 107 1 The gures disclosed in the table for Ian Grifths and Paul Keenan represent a prorated amount of the full annual payment to reect the amount of time each Director has served on the Board during the year under review.
2 This is the Senior Management Incentive Scheme, details of which appear on page 39.
50% of the full annual bonus due to the Executive Directors will be used to purchase shares that will then be deferred for three years under PRP.
3 Alun Cathcart was appointed to the Board on 17 June 2005 and promoted to Deputy Chairman on 24 February 2006.
4 Rita Clifton was appointed to the Board on 17 June 2005.
There has been no change in Tom Moloneys salary since the year ended 31 March 2005.
Pension information is shown above and share option details are shown in Notes b and c on pages 44 and 45.
6 Ian Grifths was appointed to the Board on 20 October 2005.
His salary as at 31 March 2006 was 340,000 and his full bonus for the year under review was 119,000.
7 Paul Keenan was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2005.
His salary as at 31 March 2006 was 275,000 and his full bonus for the year under review was 90,750.
8 Gary Hughes resigned from the Board on 6 April 2005.
9 This sum was paid to Gary Hughes, as compensation for loss of ofce, following his resignation on 6 April 2005.
A breakdown of this amount can be found in the 2005 annual report and accounts.
2 On 28 September 2005, Tom Moloney and Paul Keenan exercised their right to acquire 129,796 and 64,493 shares, respectively, under the EIP at nil cost.
At the time of exercise, the market price of the Companys shares was 816p.
On 7 July 2005, Gary Hughes exercised his right to acquire 95,600 shares under the EIP and 199,077 shares under the ESOP.
At the time of exercise the market price of the Companys shares was 773p.
On 30 June 2005, Gary Hughes exercised his right to acquire 598 shares under the SAYE.
At the time of exercise, the market price of the Companys shares was 778p.
His remaining 774 options under the SAYE lapsed at the same time.
3 Or date of resignation as a Director, if earlier.
4 Value of options at 31 March 2006 represents the difference between the market price of the shares at the balance sheet date and the exercise price of the options, multiplied by the number of options.
The number of options exercisable under the PRP assumes the maximum number vest in accordance with the TSR and EPS performance-related conditions.
Under the ESOP, the number of options is those that actually vested.
5 This is the Emap plc 2001 Executive Share Option Plan.
See page 40 for details of performance conditions.
6 This is the Performance Related Pay Plan.
As explained on page 39, the PRP 2004 07 and 2005 08 are dependent on the TSR performance and the EPS of the Company over the relevant vesting period.
7 This is the Emap plc Equity Incentive Plan.
8 This is the Emap Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Notes There were no variations made to the terms and conditions of any options during the year and there is no requirement for the Directors to pay any contribution on the granting of any option under any of the Companys share incentive schemes.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares at 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006 was 832p and 881p respectively.
The highest and lowest share prices during the year ended 31 March 2006 were 950.5p 28 February 2006 and 751p 11 May 2005.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 44 Notes to remuneration report continued c Performance Related Pay Plan PRP Tom Moloney Ian Grifths Paul Keenan 2004 07 Deferred shares awarded 12,542 3,660 5,065 1 Matching shares awarded 12,542 3,660 5,065 2 Minimum performance award 3 Maximum performance award 62,710 18,300 25,325 2005 08 Deferred shares awarded 5,416 3,859 4,311 1 Matching shares awarded 5,416 3,859 4,311 4 Minimum performance award 3 Maximum performance award 27,080 19,295 21,555 1 Assumes minimum EPS growth over vesting period achieved.
2 Assumes below median TSR ranking and EPS growth of less than RPI 3% per annum.
3 Assumes TSR ranking in the top 20% and EPS growth of RPI 8% per annum.
4 Assumes below median TSR ranking and EPS growth of less than RPI 4% per annum.
d Shareholdings At 31 March 2006, the Directors and the number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which they held interests, as recorded in the Register kept for the purposes of Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, were as follows: 1 April Sold 31 March 1 2005 Acquired released 2006 Adam Broadbent 8,000 8,000 Alun Cathcart 3,000 3,000 Rita Clifton Pierre Danon 6,105 6,105 Ian Grifths 9,262 2 9,264 Andrew Harrison 13,013 13,013 Karen Jones 11,193 11,193 Paul Keenan 28,387 33,408 28,560 33,235 Tom Moloney 210,201 74,837 285,038 David Rough 6,000 1,500 7,500 Total Directors interests 292,161 112,747 28,560 376,348 1 Or, in the case of Ian Grifths, Paul Keenan, Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton, as at their respective dates of appointment.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 45 Remuneration and related matters Notes to remuneration report continued The chart below shows the balance between the xed and variable compensation received by, or granted to, the Executive Directors for the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006 or, where applicable, for the period of service as a Director during that period.
2,500,000 Variable Fixed Tom Moloney 2,000,000 1,500,000 Paul Keenan 1,000,000 500,000 Ian Griffiths 0 e Changes in Directors interests Between the end of the financial year and 23 May 2006, Tom Moloney and Paul Keenan were each allocated 95 Ordinary Shares in the Company and Ian Grifths was allocated 190 Ordinary Shares in the Company under the Emap All Employee Share Ownership Plan and as a result of these allocations now have a beneficial interest in 285,133, 33,330 and 9,454 Ordinary Shares, respectively.
Approved by the Board on 23 May 2006 and signed on its behalf by: Nick Folland Company Secretary Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 46
