Corporate governance EMI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board The Board as a whole considers the appointment of Directors to, and considers that the Company has complied throughout the year with the executive appointments within, the Board, based on recommendations Code provisions set out in section 1 of the revised Combined Code on from the Nomination Committee which follows a formally approved Corporate Governance which was issued in July 2003 the Code, except selection process.
The Articles of Association include a requirement that as regards the length of Directors service contracts, which is discussed all Directors should submit themselves for election by the shareholders in the Remuneration report on pages 47 and 48, and the combination at the AGM immediately following their appointment and for re-election of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive which is discussed below.
at least once every three years thereafter.
Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed the Companys statement as to its The Board meets at least eight times each year, with additional meetings compliance with the Code, in so far as it relates to those parts of the Code or contact between meetings as necessary.
The programme for each year which the UK Listing Authority specifies for review by the external auditor, is approved by the Board in advance.
Currently, the programme includes and its report is set out on page 57. reviews of strategy together with the operations and results of the two main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets and regular The remainder of this section, together with the Remuneration report, presentations on key business developments, major projects and provides an explanation of how EMI applies the principles of good strategic issues.
Actual results for the Group and its two business units governance as set out in the revised Code.
are reported to all Directors each month.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, the Board met 11 times, including a strategy away day in June and a The Board strategy review as part of its October meeting in New York.
In the year As at 31 March 2006, the Board of EMI Group plc comprised ten Directors ended 31 March 2006, the Board met twice outside the UK to allow closer of whom four were Executive Directors.
There were five Non-executive contact with local management and intends to continue this practice in Directors in office throughout the year, until 1 February 2006, when Kevin coming years.
As part of the succession plan for EMI Music Publishing, Martin Bandier retired as a Director on 31 March 2006 when These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports, aim to he was replaced by Roger Faxon.
ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could The Boards programme also includes management development and materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The succession planning, reviews of the effectiveness of the Board and its Nomination Committee has conducted an annual review as to whether principal committees, and an assessment of the performance of the the Non-executive Directors remain independent applying the criteria set Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Additionally, the Boards programme out in the Code.
As reflected in their biographies, which appear on pages provides for at least two meetings a year between the Chairman and the 36 and 37, the Directors have a wide and balanced range of experience in Non-executive Directors, as well as at least one meeting of the Nonmultinational and consumer-orientated businesses, as well as an executive Directors alone.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees Eric Nicoli is executive Chairman of the Company, which position was assessed through each Director completing a questionnaire prepared incorporates the role of chief executive officer.
Day-to-day executive by the Company Secretary and approved by the Chairman and Deputy responsibility for the running of the Company's two main businesses lies Chairman.
The results were then presented to the Board by the Company with Alain Levy, as Chairman and CEO, EMI Music, and Martin Bandier, as Secretary and, following discussion by the Board, agreed changes were Chairman and joint CEO, EMI Music Publishing, who each report to Eric implemented.
A similar process was applied during the year by each of Nicoli.
Roger Faxon became joint CEO of EMI Music Publishing with the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with the effectiveness Martin Bandier on 1 April 2006. questionnaire being approved by the respective Committee Chairmen.
The review of the performance of the Executive Directors and NonIn recent years, and as explained in previous Annual Reports, the Board executive Directors was conducted by the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, has concluded that EMI has been best served by having separate CEOs through completion of an appraisal form, and the results were communicated of the recorded music and music publishing businesses with each of to the Directors concerned.
The review of the Chairmans performance them reporting to an executive chairman who complements their music is led by the Deputy Chairman.
The Deputy Chairmans performance is industry experience and expertise.
The Board has further concluded that reviewed by the Chairman after he has consulted all of the other Directors.
the interposition of another senior executive between the Chairman and the business CEOs would lead to unnecessary duplication, and diffusion Tailored induction programmes are provided for new Directors.
to briefings by the Chairman, Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer, meetings are arranged with a range of corporate and business The Board believes that, for the present, the structure outlined above is executives as well as the external auditors and other advisers.
Inductions the most effective for EMI and is in the best interests of both the Company also now include modular sessions covering the key characteristics of, and its shareholders.
Furthermore, the Board considers that the nature and operating risks faced by, the recorded music and music publishing and level of matters reserved for decision, either to the Board as a whole businesses.
The Board has also instituted a programme of ongoing or to standing committees of the Board, appropriately limit the authority professional development for Directors with modular sessions approved of the Chairman and reflect the combination of the posts of chairman and in advance by the Board.
chief executive officer in one person.
The Board has delegated certain matters to standing committees, details It is the Boards policy that, so long as the Chairman is also the chief of which are set out below.
However, to ensure its overall control of the executive officer of the Company, the independent Non-executive Companys affairs, the Board has reserved certain matters to itself for Directors should comprise a numerical majority of the Board and that the decision.
These include the Groups strategic plans and annual operating senior independent Non-executive Director should also be either sole or budgets: major acquisitions or disposals of companies, businesses or joint Deputy Chairman.
assets, and significant contractual commitments or items of expenditure: together with policies relating to the Groups treasury function, pensions, Apart from EMI, Eric Nicolis only other significant commitment during material litigation, employee share schemes, and environmental and the year was the chairmanship of The Tussauds Group Limited, a private ethical issues.
The delegated authorities, together with each Committees company.
terms of reference and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, are reviewed each year.
40 All Directors have access to the services and advice of the Company The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its terms Secretary, who is appointed by, and may only be removed by, the Board.
of reference and, where necessary, to obtain external legal or other The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters, independent professional advice.
The Committees responsibilities, through the Chairman.
There are also procedures for Directors, in which it has carried out during the year, include: appropriate circumstances, to obtain independent professional advice at the cost of the Company.
reviewing, and assessing the effectiveness of, the Groups internal financial controls together with its internal control and risk management The Executive Directors are permitted to take external appointments as systems: non-executive directors but usually only one such appointment may be with another publicly quoted company.
They may retain the remuneration making recommendations to the Board with regard to: the appointment, from such appointments.
All appointments must be approved by the removal and remuneration of the external auditor: overseeing the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
Companys relations with the external auditor: monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity: and the effectiveness of the The attendance by individual Directors at scheduled and ad hoc meetings audit process: of the Board and its Committees in the financial year ended 31 March 2006 was as follows: reviewing the internal audit plan for the year: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: ensuring appropriate co-ordination between the internal audit function and the external Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive auditor: providing adequate resources for the internal audit function E L Nicoli 11 11 5 7 4 4 12 12 and ensuring that it has appropriate standing: and approving the a M N Bandier 11 11 n a n a n a 10 12 appointment or termination of appointment of the head of the internal A M J I Levy 11 11 n a 3 n a 12 12 audit function: and, M D Stewart 11 11 6 n a n a 11 12 J Gildersleeve 11 11 4 6 7 7 4 4 n a S Bailey 9 11 4 6 6 7 3 4 n a reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements with particular b K K Carton 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 n a reference to accounting policies: significant estimates and financial P A Georgescu 10 11 5 6 6 7 3 4 n a reporting judgements: and the disclosures made therein.
D J Londoner 10 11 6 6 7 7 4 4 n a K A ODonovan 11 11 6 6 6 7 2 4 n a For each year, the Committee adopts a formal programme which is Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
structured to coincide with key events in the Companys financial Not Committee members, but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
The programme also includes other regular items, for a example: a review of the Committees own effectiveness and a periodic Resigned on 31 March 2006. b Appointed on 1 February 2006. review of the internal audit function: a continuing programme of postinvestment reviews: the Companys policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: reviews of material litigation to which the Board committees Group is party: reviews of treasury policies and the Groups main pension The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, plans: regular reviews of the IFRS adoption project which ceased on Nomination and Executive Committees.
Reflecting the important role the announcement of the restatement in July 2005: and the review and played by the independent Non-executive Directors in ensuring high supervision of the Groups worldwide whistleblowing arrangements.
standards of corporate governance, all the Non-executive Directors are In addition, the Committees programme during the last year has included members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
regular reports on the effective use of working capital within the recorded music and music publishing businesses.
Each committee has written terms of reference and levels of authority which have been amended so as to ensure compliance with the revised Each year, the Committee reviews the independence and objectivity Code: these can be viewed on the Groups website, www.
com, of the external auditor with a view to confirming that, in its opinion, or obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Except in the case the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and value for money of the Remuneration Committee, minutes of meetings are circulated to on the other have been kept appropriately in balance.
During the past all Directors.
year, the Committee has reconfirmed its detailed and formal policy regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Remuneration Committee Services for which the external auditor may be considered under this The role of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by John policy include supporting and reporting on financial representations in Gildersleeve, is described on page 44.
It meets at least three times each public documentation and general advice on accounting and financial year.
The Remuneration report on pages 44 to 55 gives information about reporting matters.
Services for which the external auditor may not be the Directors remuneration.
engaged, without the prior approval of the Audit Committee, include employee tax services and consulting services, and the Committee The main responsibilities and activities of the other three principal oversees the provision of any tax planning advice by external auditors.
Committees are as follows: Employee tax services for Board members or senior executives may not be undertaken by the external auditor.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Kathleen ODonovan and comprises Further details of the Committees role in relation to the annual assessment all the Non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least four times of the Groups internal control framework are set out below under each year and its meetings are normally attended by the Executive Internal control.
Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit.
In addition, the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel attends in his capacity as secretary to the Committee.
Separate meetings are held by the Committee with both the external auditor at least twice each year and the Head of Internal Audit at least once each year without the presence of Executive Directors or other management.
Following each meeting the Committee Chairman reports to the Board any matter of particular importance.
41 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Going concern Chaired by John Gildersleeve, the Committee comprises all the The Directors believe that, after making enquiries they consider to be Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee makes appropriate, the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to the reappointment of Non-executive Directors on the expiry of their adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board regarding plans for succession Internal control for both Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is based on A formal process has been adopted by the Committee to make what the Board considers to be appropriate to the Groups activities, to recommendations on both the appointment of new Directors and the the materiality of the financial and other risks inherent in those activities re-election of existing Directors.
This involves an evaluation of the skills, and to the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
knowledge and experience of the Board as a whole, consideration of It is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board and agreement of business objectives and, as such, provides reasonable, but not absolute, a description of the role and capabilities required for an anticipated new assurance against material misstatement and loss.
The selection process is led by the Chairman in close consultation with the Non-executive Deputy Chairman and all Directors The full Board meets regularly throughout the year and the matters are offered the opportunity to meet a potential appointee before the specifically reserved for its approval ensure that the Directors maintain Committee meets to discuss the proposed recommendation.
control over significant strategic, financial and compliance matters.
In addition, the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition The Group has an established organisational structure with clearly defined of the Board, and oversees the process for reviewing the effectiveness lines of responsibility and reporting.
The Board has devolved to executive of the Board and its principal committees as well as the performance of management responsibility for implementing and maintaining the Groups individual Directors.
Each business unit operates in accordance with policies and procedures applicable to all of the Groups units.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and otherwise when required.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2006, the Committee met four The Group operates comprehensive annual planning, financial reporting times and recommended the appointment of Kevin Carton as a Nonand forecasting processes.
The Board formally approves strategic plans executive Director with effect from 1 February 2006. and annual budgets.
The Groups performance is monitored against budget on a monthly basis and all significant variances are investigated.
Executive Committee There are defined authorisation procedures in respect of certain matters Chaired by the Chairman, the Executive Committee comprises the including capital expenditure, investments, the granting of guarantees CEO, EMI Music and joint CEOs, EMI Music Publishing, together with the and the use of financial instruments.
The Audit Committee also receives, Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee is responsible for the approval of twice yearly, a review of all material litigation undertaken by, or against, acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and contractual commitments the Group's companies and considers the associated risks.
below the level that the Board has reserved to itself for decision, and for certain operational, administrative and other routine matters.
The strength of an internal control system is dependent on the quality and integrity of management and staff.
Those executives at senior levels are The Committee also regularly reviews and reports to the Board on the informed of their responsibilities as to the maintenance of sound systems performance of the Group's businesses.
At least eleven meetings are of internal control.
A routine and Group-wide process, which requires key held by the Committee each year and senior Group executives frequently executives and managers to certify their compliance with the Groups attend by invitation.
policies and procedures, reinforces this integrity.
Directors responsibilities The internal audit function operates as one Group-wide Internal Audit The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Department which monitors and supports the internal control system and financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law reports to both the Audit Committee and the Groups senior management.
and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the The responsibilities of the internal audit function include recommending European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial improvements in the control environment and ensuring compliance with statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial the Groups policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews the position of the Group and the Company and the financial performance audit plan prepared by the Internal Audit Department.
and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group were in place for the year under select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: review and up to the date of this Report.
These processes are regularly present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and accord provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable with the requirements of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for information: Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Council in October 2005. requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the During the year to 31 March 2006, significant potential risks facing entity's financial position or financial performance: and, the Group have been assessed and graded in a process managed by state that the Group has complied with IFRS as adopted by the the Group Risk Director and involving line and functional management European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and throughout the Group.
The controls in place to manage or mitigate each explained in the financial statements.
risk were reviewed for adequacy and the processes to monitor and inform the Board about control performance were confirmed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, in respect of the Group, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
42 This assessment is overseen and supervised by the Group Risk Management Steering Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and its members include representatives of the two operating businesses as well as the heads of relevant central functions.
The assessment is reviewed by the Audit Committee and is repeated annually.
The risk and control assessment is also shared with senior management throughout the Group.
The Board is aware of the disclosure guidelines on social responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers, and an update on social, ethical and environmental SEE issues is part of the Boards annual programme.
Annual performance in these areas is already monitored and publicly disclosed through the Groups Social Responsibility reporting programme.
As part of the annual risk review process and the presentation of those results to the Board, account is taken of any issues arising from SEE matters that could cause risk to value: no significant risks of this nature were identified during the year under review.
Appropriate SEE matters are included in the induction programme for Non-executive Directors.
The Group has in place a social responsibility policy as well as specific ethics and environmental policies.
An ethics policy Standards of Business Conduct is issued each year.
Compliance with the policy is monitored by means of self-certification by senior and middle management and through checks made by the Internal Audit Department.
A Social responsibility report is published in respect of each financial year and briefer reviews of such matters are included in the Operating and Financial Review on page 28 and elsewhere in this Annual Report on pages 32 to 35.
The Audit Committee receives additional assurance on the operation of internal control systems around the Group, primarily from reviews by the Internal Audit Department, which presents the conclusions of its reviews twice a year.
The external auditor also takes internal financial control into consideration as part of its audit.
In addition, incidences of control failure and the internal control implications of significant business issues are recorded in a central Control Issues Register, from which a summary report is prepared for the Audit Committee.
A report is also prepared for distribution to senior management throughout the Group and appropriate actions are taken to rectify any control failures.
Any significant new issues and material changes to the risk environment are reported at the next Board meeting.
Investor relations The Group is committed to regular and open dialogue with investors.
The Chairman and Executive Directors have held, and will continue to hold, discussions with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The senior independent Non-executive Director is also available to meet investors, if so requested, and met with investors on two occasions during the year.
In addition, there are general presentations to investors and analysts after the announcement of the half-year and annual results which are simultaneously webcast.
From time to time, more tailored presentations on specific areas of importance are given.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity to question the Chairman and other Directors at the AGM and can meet them informally after the AGM.
Results announcements and other press releases are made available on the Groups website as soon as possible after their publication.
Actions taken to develop an understanding amongst Directors of the views of major shareholders about the Group include reports to the Board on investor relations.
Twice each year, these reports are supplemented by more detailed reviews by the Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, supported by the Companys brokers.
