The Board has agreed a written statement setting out Corporate governance the division of the responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Broadly, the Chairman is responsible for the management of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the management of the Groups business and operations.
THE COMBINED CODE The Boards policy is that its Chief Executive Officer should not become Chairman of the Company.
The Company applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Re-election Code of Best Practice issued in July 2003 the Code All non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have throughout the period as detailed herein.
Whilst formal been appointed for a term of three years.
In the case of compliance is important, the Boards overall approach is to Peter Brooks and Waldemar Schmidt, they were appointed be guided by and observe the spirit of the Code and apply for an initial term of five years and their appointments high standards of corporate governance.
have been extended in each case for a further period of three years.
During the period the appointments of 2.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Michael Cronk and Peter Brooks were extended for The Listing Rules require the Board to report on further three year periods.
compliance with the Code throughout the accounting All Directors are subject to election by shareholders period.
The Company complied throughout the accounting at the first opportunity after their appointment and to period ended 30 September 2006 with the provisions re-election thereafter by rotation at least every three years set out in Section 1 of the Code except in respect of in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
the following: The names of the Directors submitted for re-election, 4 no evaluation of the Nomination Committee was and reasons why the Board believes they should be performed as it did not meet during the period re-elected, are detailed in the Directors report on page 33.
6.1 : Biographical details for each of them appear on page 32.
4 the provisions of the employment agreements of the Board procedures and support executive Directors contain liquidated damages on The Board considers, as confirmed by the performance termination thereof without cause, as explained on evaluation referred to below, that it provides effective page 41 B.
1.5 : leadership and control of the Group.
Matters reserved 4 one provision in the employment agreement of for approval by the Board include: David McCulloch, as explained on page 41 B.
1.6 : and 4 approval of annual budget: 4 The Chairman is a member of the Remuneration 4 approval of annual three year Long Range Plan: Committee B.
The Board was aware of the guidance in force in FY06 on this subject but, given the Chairmans 4 setting Group strategy: overall responsibility for the operation of the Board, 4 monitoring performance against budget: continued to be of the view that it was appropriate for him to be a member of this Committee for it properly 4 approval of acquisitions and disposals: to discharge its duties.
The Board notes that the 4 approval of major capital projects: Code has been amended effective 1 November 2006 to permit the Chairman to be a member of the 4 Board appointments: and Remuneration Committee.
THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES The Board maintains a dialogue as and when necessary between formal meetings.
Briefing papers are circulated General in advance of all meetings.
Any newly appointed Directors The Directors biographies, which are set out on page 32, will receive a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
demonstrate a range of business backgrounds and A formal procedure is in place to enable Directors, in international experience.
the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, under the guidance of The composition of the Board is balanced, with a the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense.
non-executive Chairman, four non-executive Directors Should a Director have any concerns about a particular and three executive Directors.
The Board has determined issue, such concerns will be recorded in the minutes that, leaving aside the Chairman, each non-executive of the relevant Board meeting.
Furthermore, should Director is independent.
Waldemar Schmidt is the Senior he choose to resign over such a matter, the concerns Independent Director.
would be formally communicated to the other Directors through the Chairman.
All Directors are expected to keep themselves regularly up to date with developments relevant to their role.
Periodic visits to operating 35 Enodis plc locations and facilities are expected and during the year, by the Companys brokers and distributed to the Board.
non-executive members of the Board visited several Group The Board believes the Companys communications sites and relevant trade shows.
Directors also receive with shareholders are satisfactory.
The Chairman and appropriate UK and US journals and investor materials the Senior Independent Director continue to be available and have full and timely access to relevant information to shareholders at any time, in the event of their wishing and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
to discuss any matters regarding the Company.
The non-executive Directors met without executive Principal communication with private shareholders is Directors present on a number of occasions during through the provision of the Annual Report and Accounts the period.
Also, the Annual General Meeting Board performance evaluation provides an opportunity for private shareholders to question the Board and discuss issues with executive An evaluation of each Director was led by the Chairman management after the meeting.
The Groups website after the end of FY06.
This was the fourth year such an www.
com contains financial and other information exercise had been undertaken.
Interviews were conducted and is regularly updated.
by the Chairman with each other Director regarding the performance of the Board and of each Director.
Due to the Nomination Committee abortive bid activities of the summer, the Board had spent The Board has established a Nomination Committee.
an intensive amount of time working together and it was Appointments to the Board are reviewed by the Board as considered that it would have been inappropriate and a whole, while the Nomination Committee is empowered potentially disruptive to involve an outside third party in to undertake the search process and to recommend the exercise.
The outcome of the evaluation was discussed candidates to the Board as necessary.
The Committee by the Board at its November 2006 meeting.
The Board comprises Peter Brooks Chairman, Waldemar Schmidt concluded that the evaluation exercise had confirmed and Joseph Ross and meets as needed.
It did not meet that the Directors had the appropriate range of skills during the period.
As there were no meetings of the and experience and constituted an effective and unified Committee there was no need to conduct an evaluation Board.
Progress had been made in addressing the matters of the Committees performance.
The terms of reference identified in the previous years evaluation.
The experiences of the Nomination Committee are available for inspection of the summer had enhanced the cohesiveness and on the Groups website.
effectiveness of the Board and the overall conclusion was that the right approach was to continue to seek, Remuneration Committee as the Board does, ways to develop the level of Board Details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set performance by building on current practices.
out in the Directors remuneration report.
The Committee An evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was reviewed its effectiveness in November 2006 and conducted by the Senior Independent Director in October concluded that it had continued to operate effectively.
This was effected by the completion of a questionnaire Report on the Audit Committee and its main activities and designed to explore subjects such as management of in the period to 30 September 2006.
Board meetings identification of correct topics, enough time for discussion, quality of papers for meetings, effective The Audit Committees written terms of reference are review of financial performance, quality of presentations, available on the Groups website and its principal oversight establishment of appropriate structures to ensure proper responsibilities cover: oversight of significant corporate actions, receipt of relevant 4 financial reporting: additional materials analysts reports, industry data to monitor Company performance and communication of 4 internal control and risk management: Board goals to the CEO.
The conclusion was that the 4 recommendation to the Board on the appointment Chairman continues effectively to manage the Boards of auditors: affairs most competently.
4 external audit including audit scope, approval of audit Relationships with major shareholders fee and auditor independence : and and understanding their views 4 internal audit.
There is an agreed allocation of responsibilities for regular executive Director and senior executives communication The Committees Chairman is Michael Arrowsmith, with institutional investors and analysts.
The Chief appointed on 11 February 2004 who sits together with Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other senior Michael Cronk and Joseph Ross appointed on 31 July corporate executives have made a number of structured 2003 and 5 May 2004 respectively.
The Secretary of the presentations to major shareholders following results Committee is David Hooper, the Company Secretary.
Feedback from these presentations A comprehensive induction programme is made available is reported to other members of the Board.
During the for any new members of the Committee and ongoing abortive bid activity in May to August there was extensive education is actively encouraged.
At all times, the contact with a range of shareholders to ensure the Board Committee must comprise only non-executive Directors was fully appraised of their views on the proposals being and shall normally consist of not less than three members.
Quarterly analyses of shareholders are prepared The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, 36 Enodis plc Corporate governance a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 4 reviewed and approved the Companys implementation of Accountants, and having had extensive experience as a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : and senior finance executive of publicly traded companies, 4 reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it had has recent and relevant financial experience.
As indicated continued to operate as an effective Audit Committee.
on page 32, Michael Cronk is an experienced businessman having formerly been Executive Vice President of Aramark.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR Joseph Ross, a qualified US attorney, was formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Federal Signal In February 2006, the Audit Committee appraised the Corp, a public US corporation.
Details of the remuneration effectiveness of the external audit process and of the of the members of the Committee are set out in the external auditor.
This was achieved by reviewing a table on page 42 in the Directors remuneration report.
thorough appraisal by management of the 2005 audit Other Directors and executives may attend meetings of process and a response thereto by the external auditors, the Committee by invitation.
During the year the Audit and by conducting a qualitative evaluation of the external Committee Chairman invited inter alia the Chief Financial auditors.
This covered such matters as their quality Officer, the Deputy CFO and the Head of Internal Audit assurance processes, capabilities of the audit team, their to attend.
Representatives from the external auditors, degree of independence, balance of fee against scope of Deloitte & Touche LLP, were also present at each meeting.
the audit and quality of communications.
The Committee also met separately with the external and The Company has a policy and procedures in place for the internal auditors and with management.
review and pre-approval of the performance of non-audit Amongst other things, the Committee undertook the services by the external auditor, Deloitte & Touche LLP, to following activities at its meetings during the period: ensure that there is no impairment of independence and objectivity.
The policy, approved by the Audit Committee 4 reviewed and recommended to the Board the interim and the Board, includes a description of the non-audit and annual results, considering any matters raised services that the external auditor can provide, after by management and the external auditors and pre-approval.
The policy specifies those services which reviewed judgements made on provisioning and shall not be performed by the auditor, including those that accounting treatments: would involve self-review.
4 reviewed and approved the audit plans for the external Details of the audit and non-audit services performed by, and internal auditors: and of the amounts paid to, the external auditor are set 4 monitored the scope, effectiveness, independence and out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
objectivity of the external auditors: Deloitte & Touche LLP reported to the Audit Committee 4 discussed the results of internal audit reviews, including in writing that they are independent within the meaning significant findings, managements action plans and the of regulatory and professional requirements and that the timeliness of resolution: objectivity of the audit engagement partner and staff is not impaired.
4 reviewed and approved the Groups Turnbull Report to support the Boards sign-off on the system of internal 5.
GOING CONCERN control see page 38 for more details : The Directors believe that the Group has adequate 4 maintained oversight of the risk management process resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
introduced the previous year: For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 4 approved the process whereby the Directors would satisfy basis in preparing the accounts.
themselves that they complied with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors : Number of Board and Committee meetings and attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Director meeting Attendance meeting Attendance meeting Attendance meeting Attendance M R Arrowsmith 19 19 4 4 P M Brooks 19 19 5 5 G M Cronk 19 19 44 55 R C Eimers 19 19 D S McCulloch 19 19 J J Ross 19 18 4 4 W Schmidt 19 18 5 5 W D Wrench 19 19 Ten of these were ad hoc Board telephone meetings to review the indicative offers received for the Company in FY06.
INTERNAL CONTROL When setting budgets and forecasts management identifies, evaluates and reports on potential significant Introduction business risks.
The Board has established procedures to implement the Monthly reports of operating performance, with Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and on the Combined Code.
These procedures, which are prior year, are prepared at operational and Group levels.
subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process Key performance indicators are monitored by the Board.
designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial implications of the acquisition and key Responsibility performance figures.
A sensitivity analysis is performed The Board has overall responsibility for the system of of the key assumptions made in the acquisition case.
A sound system of internal control is Post investment appraisals of the Groups investments designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide A treasury report, with details of borrowings and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material investments, is distributed to corporate management misstatement or loss.
Framework The Audit Committee reviews reports detailing any The Board recognises that Risk Management is the significant legal actions faced by Group companies.
cornerstone of a sound system of internal control.
Monitoring and review activities Therefore, the Board performs an annual review of the key risks faced by the Group, covering strategic, business, There are clear processes for monitoring the system of financial, compliance and other risks.
Controls are internal control and reporting any significant control failings then identified to alleviate or mitigate these risks to an or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
acceptable level, and these are then constantly monitored The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and to ensure they have been operating throughout the period reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Groups system of under review and any weaknesses or issues addressed on internal control, risk assessment, management policies a timely basis.
and the integrity of management systems.
Control structure The Audit Committee periodically receives and reviews The Group maintains an extensive system of internal reports on internal controls from the external auditors controls.
Key elements include: and a formal annual self assessment is provided by the presidents and controllers of each operating company 4 a defined operating structure for the Group with clear detailing the operation of their control systems and lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The Groups highlighting any weaknesses.
organisational structure is relatively flat, assisting close control, fast information flow and responsiveness: A biannual survey is prepared of employees views and opinions on a wide variety of risk management issues.
4 written policies and procedures which define the limits of delegated authority and provide a framework for Regional management, the Audit Committee and the Board management to deal with areas of significant business review the results of such reports and assessment taking risk.
These policies and procedures are regularly reviewed action as appropriate.
and, where necessary, updated: Where, as a result of these reviews, issues are identified in 4 a Treasury Operating Committee which oversees the the internal control environment, prompt corrective actions operation of the Group treasury function and sets are taken.
appropriate limits to mitigate treasury risk: The Group has an internal audit function that reports 4 representation letters obtained from all operating directly to the Audit Committee whose role includes companies prior to publishing results confirming assisting the Board to discharge its responsibilities disclosures and compliance with internal and external regarding internal control.
requirements, compliance with ethical policies, that Review of effectiveness appropriate recruitment checks have been made and that a whistleblower policy has been circulated: The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control through 4 operating procedures which include a comprehensive the monitoring process set out above for the period under system for reporting information to the Directors which review and to the date of approval of the annual report is adjusted as necessary: and and financial statements.
4 budgets prepared by operating company management and subject to review by both Group management and the Directors.
Forecasts are revised during the year and compared against budget.
