12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 21 Corporate Governance Introduction The Board recognises that good governance helps the business deliver its strategy, generate long-term shareholder value and minimise risk.
For the year under review the appropriate governance provisions are as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code provisions, the Turnbull Report on Internal Control and appropriate best practice guidance issued by investor bodies.
Our corporate governance framework is directed in a manner which is responsible and in accordance with high standards of honesty, transparency and accountability.
The Board considers that this statement on governance provides the information to enable shareholders to evaluate how the provisions and principles of the Combined Code have been applied.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Board is responsible for the policies and controls put in place to discharge the Companys responsibilities under the Combined Code.
These include, for example, a sound system of internal controls and risk management procedures designed to ensure the Companys policies achieve compliance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2006 the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the principles of good governance with the exception of provision A.
3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise nonexecutive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Following the retirement of Mr G W Harrison on 30 September 2006 the Company is now compliant with this provision.
The Company has also complied with the Smith guidance on Audit Committees.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board Role The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Group and for its overall strategic direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the leadership necessary to enable the business objectives to be met while ensuring the obligations to its shareholders are safeguarded.
Composition For the year under review the Board comprised the Chairman, four executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
The role of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and operate effectively for these positions.
During the year, the Board has again reviewed its composition and has concluded that its composition fully satisfies the requirements of the business and ensures proper governance of the Group.
The Chairman, Mr H V Reid, has primary responsibility for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties.
He is responsible, jointly with the Chief Executive, for the effective communication with the Companys shareholders and representation of the Group externally.
The Chief Executive, Mr G E Tuppen, has executive responsibilities to ensure delivery of strategic and financial objectives and for executing the Groups strategy and development.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management that could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgement.
The Board recognises that length of service can impact on the independence of a non-executive director and, having considered this, is satisfied that all non-executives remain independent in character and judgement for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board membership and that of its Committees is designed to ensure that no one individual or group dominates proceedings and that the wide variety of skills allows effective leadership across the Companys business activities.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 21 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 22 Corporate Governance Other than the retirement of Mr G W Harrison on 30 September 2006 there were no changes to the membership of the Board during the year.
The Board is satisfied that, as a non-executive director seeking re-election, Mr D A Harding continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment and time to his role and duties.
Biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 13 to 14.
Operation of the Board The Company has an effective Board which leads and controls the Company and is responsible to the shareholders for its proper management.
The Board reviews trading performance, sets and monitors strategy and examines major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
The Board has established guidelines requiring that specific matters are reserved for a decision by the full Board.
This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, major financial and key operational issues.
Such matters include, for example, the approval of financial statements, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, risk management and governance policies.
All meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion by all directors and ensure full participation in the decision-making process.
Meetings and Attendance The Board held six scheduled meetings in the past year and is expected to hold a similar number of such meetings over its next financial year.
The Board convenes additional meetings to consider matters that are time critical.
In addition, separate off-site meetings are held annually at which high level strategic issues, such as future business direction and its financial and operational implications, are reviewed and debated.
All of the current directors attended all Board Meetings and the Strategic Review during the year.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director The non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors and bring an independent judgement to the decision-making process at Board and Committee level.
Their role requires a time commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary to properly discharge their duties.
In terms of commitments outside of the Company, any material changes must be reported to and precleared with the Chairman.
The Company has appointed a Senior Independent Director whose role and responsibilities are clearly defined, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have any concerns that cannot be resolved through contact through normal channels.
In compliance with the Combined Code, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives during the year to discuss matters in a forum that did not include executive directors or the Chairman.
In addition, all of the non-executives including the Chairman met during the year without the executive directors being present to discuss, amongst other matters, the performance of the Chief Executive and overall feedback arising from the performance evaluation process and strategic review.
Information and Training The Board and its committees are supplied with full and timely information which enables the proper discharge of their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure concerning independent professional advice setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
The Company has arranged appropriate directors and officers liability insurance to provide cover in the event of legal action against its directors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its committees and is responsible for advising the Chairman on matters of corporate governance, ensuring the good flow of information to the Board and its committees and between the non-executives and senior management.
The written responsibilities of the Company Secretary are available on the Companys website.
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 23 Corporate Governance All new directors receive an appropriately tailored induction programme arranged to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Group and the key business issues.
The training needs of each director are regularly reviewed and assessed by the Board.
Existing directors undertake such professional development as is necessary for them to carry out their duties as directors.
Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newly appointed directors will be subject to election at the next following Annual General Meeting and also that at least one-third of directors excluding those appointed to the Board during the year shall retire by rotation each year.
This is applied so that each director will submit themselves for election or re-election at regular intervals and at least once every three years.
The Board has determined that re-election of the Chairman and non-executive directors is not automatic and is subject to formal review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee and approval by shareholders.
Board Committees In order to ensure effective leadership and governance the Board governs through clearly identified committees which have delegated powers to deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs.
A summary of the operation of these committees is set out below.
All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director or have a majority of independent directors as members.
The names and biographical details of all Board Committee members are set out on pages 13 to 14.
The Audit Committee The Boards obligation to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors is met through the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr D A Harding who has current and relevant financial experience.
The Committees other members are Mr A J Stewart and Mrs S E Murray.
The Committee met four times during the year to coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the Company including the submission of the interim and annual financial statements.
All Committee members attended each meeting during the year.
Representatives from the external auditors, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were in attendance at part or all of each meeting by invitation.
As a matter of best practice, the Committee is able to meet alone with external auditors as required at the end of its meetings.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
These are available on the Companys website.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
The Committee has also been concerned to ensure that the appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
The Company has in place a whistle-blowing policy under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in such matters as financial reporting.
For the year under review, the Committee: n has monitored the integrity of the financial statements, interim and final report and accounts and relevant regulatory announcements: n reviewed the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards and monitored the implementation of appropriate changes to the Groups accounting principles and policies: n agreed the annual audit plan and has considered external auditor reports and has monitored and followed up management actions in response to issues raised: Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 23 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 24 Corporate Governance n met regularly with management and with internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls and business risk management and is satisfied that proper and satisfactory internal controls remain in place to identify and contain business risk: n reviewed and monitored the independence and objectivity of external auditors: and n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of external auditors and reviews this annually.
The Committee is confident that in reviewing the external auditors Annual Audit Results Report, the objectivity and independence of the auditors are not impaired by the provision of non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied that such work is best handled by them due to knowledge of the Group.
The Committee aims to have non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords full value for money.
It is considered appropriate for commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, to use the external auditors for certain non-audit services.
The amount of non-audit fees charged by auditors is disclosed in note 6 to the accounts.
The Nominations Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr H V Reid and its members are the Chief Executive and the three non-executive directors Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray.
The Committee is responsible for proactively refreshing and reviewing the Boards composition.
The Committee nominates, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and takes into account the knowledge and skills mix required by the Board in the future.
The Committee meets as required and met twice during the year when all Committee members attended.
The Committee seeks the advice of external recruitment consultants as necessary and follows a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that new appointments comply with the principles set out in the Combined Code and satisfy the needs for the balance of the Board.
Any appointments are based on merit and against objective criteria, including the time available to, and the commitment which will be required of, the potential director.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code to ensure that no director is involved in discussions regarding his or her own succession.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The individual terms and conditions of appointment of directors can be inspected during normal office hours at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year in review, the Committee: n reviewed the plan for the retirement of directors by rotation and the framework for succession planning, the operational reorganisation of the Group including the retirement of Mr G W Harrison and the appointment of Mr W S Townsend as Chief Operating Officer: n consulted with the Board regarding senior managerial appointments: and n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 25 Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr A J Stewart and its members are the two other non-executive directors Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray.
The Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors and senior management, including performance related bonus schemes and the Chairmans fee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board.
The Committee appoints external remuneration consultants and advisers as necessary to provide remuneration services and advice to the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year and all Committee members were in attendance.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles set out in the Combined Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in options, together with information on service contracts, and is set out on pages 28 to 37.
During the period in review, the Committee: n determined the remuneration for executive directors and the Chairman: n discussed levels of remuneration for senior manager appointments: n determined the awards under the Companys incentive arrangements under the Annual Bonus Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan 2002 and 2005: n agreed adjusted EPS figures for targets set out in the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans following the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: n agreed the content and presentation of the remuneration report for inclusion in the report and accounts: and n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
Finance Committee and Disclosure Monitoring Committees The Board has delegated, within agreed terms of reference, responsibility for certain matters of a routine nature which are not reserved for full Board consideration to a Finance Committee.
This Committee comprises two executive directors, one of which must be the Chief Financial Officer.
In addition and to ensure full compliance with its obligations under the Disclosure Rules published by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to maintain adequate procedures, systems and controls to enable it to make timely and accurate disclosure of information via a regulatory news service when it is impracticable to hold a full Board meeting.
A separate Monitoring Committee has been established to monitor compliance with UK Listing Principles, including a policy based on the Model Code, which cover the dealings in securities and applies to directors, persons discharging managerial responsibility and employee insiders.
6 of the Combined Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
During the year, the Company has internally undertaken a critical self-assessment performance evaluation programme in accordance with this principle and has effectively evaluated the Board, its Committees and its individual directors, including the Chairman.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 25 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 26 Corporate Governance Board performance evaluation The process was led by the Chairman and all directors completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Deputy Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board at a Board meeting when all the directors were present.
The review found that the Boards performance is streamlined, constructive and continues to be effective in dealing with challenging issues as and when they arise.
Board Committee performance evaluation For the Board Committee performance evaluation processes each Committee Chairman and Committee member completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Deputy Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board.
The review found that the Committees continued to deal efficiently with their remits and concluded that the membership and structure of the Committees complemented the workings of the Board.
Non-executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chairman and all non-executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each non-executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chairman to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail including any matters arising from the evaluation of the Board and Committee performance.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance.
Executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chief Executive and all executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire and were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chief Executive to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail.
Each executive director is also set challenging performance objectives.
The successful achievement of these objectives makes up part of the short-term incentive criteria under the Annual Bonus Plan.
Shareholder relations The Board places considerable importance on maintaining clear communications with its stakeholders directed to ensuring a mutual understanding of its objectives and has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors to discuss the progress of the business and deal with a wide range of enquiries.
This includes direct face to face contact, presentations after the preliminary announcement for the year and the results for the half year and specific analyst presentations with feedback from the Companys brokers as necessary.
During the year shareholders are also informed of the progress of the Company through announcements released through the London Stock Exchange and made available on the website.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that views of major shareholders are fed back to the non-executive directors on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of how shareholder views are communicated forms part of the annual Board performance evaluation process.
Information about the Company, including reports, announcements and presentations, is made available simultaneously on its website so that shareholders have full access to material information.
Directors regularly receive copies of analyst reports and reports on movements in major shareholdings as well as key broker comments.
The Annual General Meeting, held in January each year, is the principal opportunity to encourage participation by private investors and procedures at such meetings are in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 January 2007 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 121 to 124.
The Notice is sent by first class post to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and details of proxy votes for and against are made available after the result of hand votes.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Company has proposed in the Notice separate resolutions on each substantial matter.
Again this year the 26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 27 Corporate Governance Company is, in accordance with the Myners Report, offering shareholders a facility for electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
The voting results are announced on the same day to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
The Company has considered innovative ways of communicating with shareholders and has given all its shareholders the opportunity to register and receive shareholder communications, such as the report and accounts, the interim report and notices of meetings, electronically via the Internet rather than in paper form through the post in accordance with good investor practice.
Finally, the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, deal with a wide range of investor queries on behalf of shareholders.
Details of additional shareholder services are set out on page 120.
Internal Control The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal control for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It carries out such a review at least annually covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
An ongoing process on internal control has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and, with advice from its Audit Committee, is satisfied that this meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and the Turnbull guidance.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: n regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for directors consideration: n the Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks facing the business, and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board: n an established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: n an established internal audit function which implements the annual internal audit plan as agreed by the Committee: n documented and enforced policies and procedures: n appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: n comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances: n a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post-investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board: and n the Audit Committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 27
