41 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Corporate Governance Report Filtrona is committed to a high standard of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management throughout the Company.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance.
Compliance with the Combined Code As a listed company, Filtrona is required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
This Report describes how the Company applies the principles of corporate governance set out in the Code and the extent to which it complies with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board considers that, during the financial year ended 31 December 2006, the Company has complied with all the provisions in the Code, except one.
The exception relates to the posting of the notice of the Companys first AGM and related papers to shareholders in 2006.
The Company did not post the Notice of Annual General Meeting for 2006 and related papers within the notice period of 20 working days before the meeting, as required under the code provision D. 2.4.
The period of non-compliance was 6 working days and papers were posted 14 working days before the meeting.
The delay in the posting of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers was due to the finalisation of the design of the Companys first Annual Report and Accounts.
Board of Directors The Board provides leadership to the Company and has overall responsibility for the business and management of Filtrona.
Composition The Board currently comprises a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors, and three Non-executive Directors.
Five of these Directors served throughout the entire financial year ended 31 December 2006.
Paul Heiden resigned as a Director on 26 April 2006 and Warren Knowlton was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2006.
Biographies of the Directors, demonstrating the range of experience, skills and independent judgement available to the Board, appear on page 27.
The Board is of the view that it has the appropriate balance of expertise and ability available to it.
Board roles The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness, the Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and performance of Filtronas operations.
Non-executive Directors In the opinion of the Board, Paul Drechsler, Adrian Auer and Warren Knowlton are each considered to be independent of management and there are no relationships or circumstances which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board is content that the Non-executive Directors devote sufficient time to the business of Filtrona.
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors provide a sound basis for good corporate governance for the Company, challenging managements performance and, in conjunction with the Executive Directors, ensuring that appropriate financial controls and systems of risk management are maintained.
Senior Independent Director Paul Drechsler acts as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
In that role he is available to shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their issues and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Finance Director or where such contact is inappropriate.
Board meetings There were eight scheduled Board meetings during the year, including one day of strategy discussions, with two meetings being held at operational facilities, including an overseas location.
In addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board met on an ad hoc basis as required for particular matters.
The Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with the Directors and the Chairman also holds periodic informal meetings with the Non-executive Directors, without any of the Executive Directors being present, to review performance and to monitor corporate control mechanisms.
At each scheduled meeting, the Board considers a report from the Chief Executive on current trading, a financial review, and other significant business issues such as acquisition proposals and other major investment plans.
Additionally, the Board receives presentations and considers reports from senior management about matters of material importance to the Company.
Papers for each scheduled formal Board and Committee meeting are usually provided five clear working days beforehand.
42 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Corporate Governance Report Delegation The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference approved by the Board.
These Committees report regularly to the Board.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be reviewed by it, including the approval of annual and interim results, strategic plans, annual budgets, material increases to borrowing and loan facilities, acquisitions and disposals and major capital and operating expenditure proposals.
Board procedures The internal procedures implemented by the Company to ensure the Board maintains overall control for all material, strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters affecting the Company are included within the internal control section of this Report set out on page 44.
In furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
On appointment, Directors benefit from an induction programme tailored to their individual needs and designed to assist them in their understanding of Filtrona and its operations.
The programme, which continues throughout a Directors tenure as necessary, includes details of fiduciary duties, Companies Act requirements, dealing restrictions as outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the Model Code on directors dealings in securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Board and business related matters, meetings with senior management, site visits and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders.
Insurance The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance at a level and with a scope that the Board considers appropriate.
Board Committees Each Board Committee has established clear and defined terms of reference detailing their responsibilities and powers.
The terms of references for each Board Committee were updated during the year and are available on Filtronas website at www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises Adrian Auer, who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler and Warren Knowlton.
Adrian Auer has recent and relevant financial experience.
A representative of the Companys external auditor ordinarily attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director is normally invited to attend the meetings.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Its duties include monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing, challenging and approving Filtronas accounting policies and scrutinising the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
Additionally, the Audit Committee keeps under review the scope and results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-appointment or removal of the external auditor, their terms of engagement and the level of their remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the process which is in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Company has a policy regarding the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The policy recognises the importance of maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditor by minimising its involvement in projects of a non-audit nature.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to its detailed understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be necessary to involve the external auditor in non-audit related work, principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals and tax services.
43 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Jeff Harris, who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler and Adrian Auer.
The Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee meets as required, normally at least once a year.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and, with the benefit of assistance from external advisers, made recommendations to the Board regarding director appointments.
In furtherance of these duties and when considering succession planning, the Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The selection process is, in the Boards view, both rigorous and transparent in order to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria set by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Paul Drechsler who chairs the Committee, Adrian Auer and Warren Knowlton.
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is described more fully in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 33 to 40.
The following were Directors of the Company and as Committee members attended the following number of meetings during the year ended 31 December 2006: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Held 8 4 3 4 Attended Jeff Harris Chairman 8 3 Mark Harper Chief Executive 8 Steve Dryden Finance Director 8 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent 8 4 3 4 Non-executive Director Adrian Auer Non-executive Director 8 4 3 4 Warren Knowlton Non-executive Director 6 3 3 Paul Heiden Non-executive Director 2 1 1 Appointed 1 June 2006 Resigned 26 April 2006 Performance evaluation During 2006 the Board carried out its first evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
This involved the Directors independently completing a questionnaire, provided by external consultants, and reviewing individual performance and the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The results, which served to strengthen the Boards priorities and communication, were discussed at a Board meeting and the various relevant Committee meetings.
Following this detailed review the Directors have concluded that the processes in place enable the Board, and its Committees, to operate effectively.
As part of the 2006 Board performance evaluation, the Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director also appraised the Chairmans performance without the Chairman being present.
44 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Corporate Governance Report Directors re-appointments The Articles of Association of the Company require one third of the Directors to retire from office each year and for all Directors to submit themselves for re-election on a date which is no more than three years from the date of their appointment or last re-appointment.
The Directors retiring at the forthcoming AGM and submitting themselves for re-appointment are Jeff Harris and Adrian Auer.
Following the Board performance evaluation undertaken during the financial year, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
Warren Knowlton was appointed subsequent to the Companys first AGM, held in April 2006.
Following his appointment to a full-time chief executive role in the US in December 2006, Warren is not putting himself forward for re-election.
Accordingly he will retire from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 30 April 2007.
Shareholder communications The Company communicates regularly with its major institutional shareholders, and ensures that all the Directors, including the Non-executive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders about the Company.
This is achieved by the Executive Directors maintaining contact from time to time with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest relating to the Company and reporting back to the Board.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors of the Company should they so wish.
Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers will this year have been posted to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
The interim and preliminary results of Filtrona, along with all other press releases, are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced and webcasts of the presentations of the Companys interim and preliminary results are available for download.
Internal control In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day management of the businesses are delegated to the Chief Executive supported by the Executive Committee and to the respective Line of Business Heads within delegated authority limits and in accordance with clearly defined systems of control.
The Executive Committee, which meets at least twice per month, is made up of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel and the Director of Group Human Resources.
All Directors receive copies of the minutes from each Executive Committee meeting and the monthly reports submitted by the individual lines of business.
The Global Executive, which consists of the Executive Committee members and the Line of Business Heads, meets periodically to discuss the health and safety programme, business performance and common operational issues across Filtronas international businesses.
Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing review and updated as required, are communicated across the Company and are designed to ensure significant risks, investment decisions and management issues are escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
The Board believe that this management structure ensures a strong link between Filtronas overall corporate strategy and its implementation within an effective control environment.
45 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Risk review The Board is of the view that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place throughout 2006 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2006.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee and accords with the internal control guidance for directors as required by the Code.
A Risk Management Committee, which during 2006 consisted of the Executive Committee members and the Head of Internal Audit, meets at least four times each year and otherwise as necessary.
The Committee enhances managements ability to review and monitor the effectiveness of risk control on a regular basis.
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee include supporting corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
They also include the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
Risk review is a continuing process embedded within the businesses with executives required to include risk management on agendas for their regular management meetings and to report half yearly to the Risk Management Committee on actions taken to review the effectiveness of their controls.
Businesses are also required to have processes to formally identify risks, consider their financial and non-financial implications and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
The Company has an internal audit department.
The resources of this department are augmented with independent expert external resources wherever necessary to review risk and monitor compliance with the Companys policies and procedures across its international operations.
Accordingly the resources of the department, together with additional available resources, are considered adequate.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal controls based on the processes implemented by the Risk Management Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee receives a presentation from the Head of Internal Audit on action taken to identify and reduce risks and to increase awareness of both risk management and the importance of having effective internal controls.
Financial reporting The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 31 and 32, their responsibility for preparing the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The external auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report set out on page 80, a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of an unaudited interim report of the Company which provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position for the first six months of each accounting period.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
