Corporate governance The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of compliance by the Company with the Code.
The Directors are good governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on confident that notwithstanding such non-compliance, and as Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in reinforced by the performance evaluation referred to below, the Board July 2003 the Code.
The way in which it applies those principles is and its Committees remain and will continue to be effective.
Except as described in paragraph 1.1 b below, the Directors are satisfied that the current Board possesses the breadth of Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1 of the Code.
business, financial and international experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation of the size and complexity of the Group.
1 The Board and its principal committees Details of the Board, its members and its principal committees are set c Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive out below.
The Chairman The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written 1.1 The Board statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board: a Board structure and responsibilities The Chairman is responsible for: The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets at least eight leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects times each year and is responsible for setting and reviewing the of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues Companys strategy and objectives, reviewing the financial and relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: operational performance of each of the Groups business units, ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the agreeing and reviewing progress against the Groups annual budgets provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board: and setting and reviewing on a regular basis its longer-term business plans.
It also has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the including approval of the annual and interim financial statements, Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: financing arrangements, material capital commitments, business managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for the acquisitions and disposals, relationships with regulatory authorities discussion of complex or contentious issues: and operating and accounting policies.
ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as a During the year, the Board met eight times and all members of whole, its Committees and individual Directors: the Board attended all meetings held whilst they were Directors.
The Board also held a number of separate strategy meetings.
taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to b Board balance and independence enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team: The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been reviewed facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and against the definition of independence in the Code.
David Begg, ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NonDavid Dunn, Jim Forbes and John Sievwright are considered to be Executive Directors: independent within this definition.
As Martyn Williams is an employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries, he cannot be considered to be ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that new independent.
However, the Board feels very strongly that it is Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure extremely beneficial for its employees to be represented on the Board their early contribution to the Board: in this way so that important employee-related issues can be raised at encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
the highest level and a two-way communication process between the management of the Company and its employees is maintained.
The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance evaluation review referred to below, that Martin Gilberts significant and in-depth Therefore at present, the Company does not comply with the Code knowledge and experience of the Groups business, combined with provision that at least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, his external business experience enables him to provide effective is made up of Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the leadership of the Board and to continue to make a positive Board to be independent.
The Board has engaged Spencer Stuart, contribution to the Groups ongoing business.
executive search consultants, to assist in the search for a new independent Non-Executive Director.
Discussions with a suitable The Chairmans other significant business commitments, which remain candidate are at an advanced stage and it is anticipated that the unchanged from last year, are described in his biography on page 19.
Company will be in a position to make an announcement on the The Board performance evaluation process confirmed that the other appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Director prior to the Board members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the necessary Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 July 2006.
The appointment time available to devote to the proper performance of his duties of a further independent Non-Executive Director will ensure as Chairman.
20 The Chief Executive Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, which is The Chief Executive is Moir Lockhead.
The Chief Executive also has a tailored to their individual needs.
This includes meetings with senior written statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information is Board: provided on their responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and best practice guidelines.
The induction process is supported The Chief Executive is responsible for: during the year by the programme of business presentations and running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the authorities operational visits described above.
delegated to him by the Board: The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes to the law ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
strategy set by the Board for the Group: f Performance evaluation day-to-day management of the executive and senior management During the course of the year, the Board undertook an evaluation team: of its performance.
The Chairman led the process, assisted by the leading the development of senior management within the Group Company Secretary.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable that the Board, its Committees and each individual Director continued individuals for future Director roles: to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities expected of them, and also to identify any additional training requirements.
ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner A tailored questionnaire was developed, which each Director of the issues facing the Group and of any important events and completed.
The responses were analysed and discussed at a meeting developments: of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director led a process of leading the development of the Groups future strategy including evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
No significant issues identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its business were raised in the course of the evaluation process.
and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
g Re-election of Directors d Senior Non-Executive Director As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Directors offer David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders appointed during the year is required to seek re-appointment by if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The biographical Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or details of all the Directors, including those seeking re-election at the for which such contact is inappropriate.
2006 Annual General Meeting, are set out on page 19. e Information and professional development of Board members h Appointment of Non-Executive Directors The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial term at each meeting well in advance and individual Board members have of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
They have direct access to senior executives should they wish to receive letters of appointment, which are available on request for inspection.
additional information on any of the items for discussion.
The head of each operating division attends Board meetings on a regular basis i Directors and officers liability insurance to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the performance The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance of and current issues facing that division.
Management give cover throughout the year as permitted by section 310 of the presentations on current issues facing the business.
The cover was renewed on 1 April 2006.
Board meetings each year are held on site at operating locations in the UK and USA allowing the Directors to visit the Groups operations and to discuss key issues with local operational management and stakeholders.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
21 Corporate governance continued The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a limited 2 Committees of the Board number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising that this is In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, an effective way to broaden their knowledge and expertise.
However, the terms of reference for which are published on the Companys no such appointment can be taken up without prior Board approval.
website and details of which are set out below, the Board has also The Companys policy on fees relating to such outside directorships is delegated certain matters to Committees.
The principal such set out on page 28 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Committees are: 2.5 Remuneration Committee 2.1 Executive Safety Committee ESC The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Jim Forbes, The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly met four times during the year and all members of the Committee basis.
It comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers attended all of its meetings held whilst they were Directors.
Details of and safety officers.
The ESC reviews the Groups safety performance the membership of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the and practices, develops safety policies and procedures and follows Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 32, together with a up on outstanding issues.
During the year, a number of meetings were statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
Full details attended by independent safety experts and senior representatives of Directors remuneration appear on page 29. of relevant industry bodies, including the Health & Safety Executive.
2.6 Audit Committee 2.2 Executive Management Board EMB The Audit Committee is chaired by David Dunn and includes David The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain senior Begg, Jim Forbes and John Sievwright.
It met three times during the business managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It acts as a year and all members attended each of those meetings whilst they general operating management committee and meets on a monthly were Directors.
The Group Director of Internal Audit attended each of basis to review outstanding issues and to consider the Groups those meetings and the Companys external auditors also attended operational and financial performance.
Executive Directors and other senior managers attended where requested and as appropriate.
2.3 Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and The Board considers that each member of the Committee has meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise in the sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee to ordinary course of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief discharge its functions effectively.
Executive and has specific delegated powers within prescribed limits Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the effectiveness to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course which need to be of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies and considered before the next scheduled Board meeting.
procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
It also keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the audits 2.4 Nomination Committee and appointments to the Board conducted by the internal audit department and the external auditors, The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman and includes the consistency of accounting policies and reporting across the Group David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright and Moir and it reviews the half-year and full-year financial statements before Lockhead.
Martyn Williams attends meetings of the Committee at they are presented to the Board.
the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
The Committee meets as required to discuss The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the Code and appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-Executive its related guidance and oversees the objectivity and effectiveness of Directors.
Its recommendations are then put to the full Board for internal audit.
The work of the internal audit department is focused on consideration.
External search consultants are used to assist the areas of priority as identified by risk analysis and in accordance with process, where appropriate.
an annual audit plan approved by the Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, units and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to resolve which comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of each identified control weaknesses are implemented.
The Group Director of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of two of Internal Audit has the right of direct access to the chairman of the three-year terms.
During the year, the Committee met twice.
Items considered by the The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Committee include the potential appointments to the Board.
In its Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups deliberations, the Committee is required to have regard to the skills external auditors and, subject to the approval of shareholders, and experience needed for the future commercial and strategic recommends to the Board the audit fee to be paid to the external development of the Group.
All members of the Committee attended auditors.
The Committee is also charged with monitoring the each meeting.
independence of the external auditors and the objectivity and 22 effectiveness of the external audit process.
The objectivity and process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks independence of the external auditors is considered on a regular faced by the Group.
basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception of due 4.1 Responsibility diligence work on acquisitions or potential acquisitions in both the The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control UK and overseas, where the current auditors knowledge of the and assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing detailed control Companys business processes and controls means that they are best and risk management procedures within each subsidiary lies with the placed to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Companys Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by the auditors system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate during the year was associated with acquisition-related due diligence.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Details of the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement non-audit fee, are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters that may concern them.
4.2 Control environment The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which all Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement managers and employees are required to comply.
The Group has a of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the Code of Ethics, which applies to all of its subsidiary undertakings, a external auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external copy of which is available on the Companys website.
auditors also meet separately with the Audit Committee and or the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Annual Report The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with lines and Financial Statements and interim results go through a detailed of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Board to verification and due diligence process involving external advisers.
plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other management is delegated to the Executive Directors and subsidiary officers of the Group to attend its meetings but none has the right of unit managing directors under the overall direction of the Chief attendance.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external or Executive.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a number of internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
specific items, which ensures that it retains control over key business The business considered and discussed by the Committee during the decisions and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
year included the reports of the external auditors on the half-year and A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, full-year results, the 2006 07 Group Internal Audit Plan and budget, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate communications and papers concerning any regular and special audits and an executive procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions is summary of each internal audit report, risk analysis assessments monitored by an Executive Director.
and a review of the implications of changes in accounting standards and the application and implementation of International Financial 4.3 Monitoring Reporting Standards.
The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system which complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group 3 Financial reporting Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and procedures external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and with which subsidiaries must comply.
These are also available on comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and the Groups intranet.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary company prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and management and are subject to review by both Group management other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published and the Executive Directors.
Monthly forecasts are completed during information including but not limited to the year-end and interim the year and compared against actions required.
Each subsidiary financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other public unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance, with a information.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year.
the financial statements may be found on page 35.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly 4 Internal controls basis.
In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which The Board has established procedures to meet the requirements of include consideration of long-term financial projections and the the Code and its related guidance on internal controls.
These evaluation of business alternatives.
procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing 23 Corporate governance continued A process of annual self-assessment and hierarchical reporting Labour costs provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability from Labour costs represent the largest component of the Groups the subsidiary units to senior management to the Executive Directors.
Labour shortages, or low unemployment rates, could This process includes an internal control questionnaire and risk hinder the Groups ability to recruit and retain qualified employees assessment and is signed off by the subsidiary unit directors.
This leading to a higher than expected increase in the cost of recruitment, process and the supporting documentation are reviewed by both the training and other staff costs.
Detailed action plans are developed To mitigate this risk, the Group seeks to structure our recruitment and from these questionnaires to resolve any control weaknesses or retention strategies to attract and retain the right people.
Fuel costs 4.4 Risks and Uncertainties Fuel costs constitute a significant proportion of our cost base.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties that could Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly by international, have an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
political and economic circumstances as well as natural disasters.
If a fuel supply shortage were to arise from a national strike or world Competitive pressures supply difficulties, a disruption to oil imports or refining capacity due to Our businesses compete in the areas of pricing and service and face a natural disaster or otherwise, higher fuel prices could impact on the competition from a number of sources.
In UK Bus, our main competitor is the car as the cost of driving a car To mitigate the risk of rising fuel costs the Group regularly enters into is generally perceived as less expensive than bus travel, especially if forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed prices.
In addition the Group there is more than one person in the car.
In order to make bus travel seeks to limit the impact of unexpected fuel price increases through a viable alternative to the car we seek to work with local authorities to efficiency and pricing measures.
introduce bus priority measures and effect infrastructure changes that promote bus patronage.
Insurance costs The main competitor to our UK Rail businesses is again the car and Insurance reserves are made for estimates of losses that we will to a lesser extent, long-distance coach operators and budget airlines.
ultimately incur on accidents or incidents that have been reported but To mitigate the risk from these pressures, the Group works with local not paid and accidents or incidents that have been incurred but not and national bodies to ensure that services are provided that meet or reported.
These reserves are based on actuarial valuations that are exceed the requirements of our stakeholders.
regularly prepared by independent actuaries.
The actuarial valuations consider a number of factors, including historical claim payment In North America our businesses cover a wide geographic spread patterns and changes in case reserves, the assumed rate of increase competing with several large companies and a substantial number in medical treatment costs and property damage repairs and ultimate of smaller, locally owned or government owned operators.
Historical experience and recent trends are the most competitors in the yellow school bus business can also include school significant factors in the determination of these reserves.
Given the districts since most school districts operate their own yellow school magnitude of the claims involved and the length of time until the buses.
Similarly, while the majority of our Transit and Services ultimate cost is known the use of any estimation technique is business streams are operated by private entities, including several inherently uncertain.
large companies, our Transit and Services businesses also compete with many municipalities.
In North America our businesses compete The Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance costs by on service, quality and price.
promoting a culture of safety in everything that we do, through the Executive Safety Committee that is headed up by the Chief Executive.
Legislation and regulation Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating safety Terrorism procedures, equipment specifications, employment requirements, Terrorist acts and public concerns about potential attacks could environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating adversely affect demand for our services.
The Group has recently issues and considerations.
These laws and regulations are constantly appointed a Head of Security who is responsible for improved security subject to change.
The costs associated with complying with the awareness, implementation of good practice and development of a adoption of new legislation, regulations or other laws could adversely passenger and employee security structure.
impact the results of our operations.
Economy To mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes the Group The level of economic activity effects the number of bus and train regularly lobbies both governmental and transport bodies.
journeys taken by passengers in the United Kingdom.
Any changes in 24 economic activity may impact on passenger numbers and hence 5 Relations with shareholders our United Kingdom operations.
The potential impact of this is The Group recognises the importance of regular communication reduced on certain rail franchises due to the existence of revenue with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Financial share arrangements.
In most UK Bus operating companies, the Group Statements are made available to all shareholders and an Interim has the ability to modify services by giving 45 days notice of such Report is published and sent to shareholders at the half-year.
reports are intended to provide shareholders and other interested parties with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups Risk Assessment operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
via regulatory news and press releases and the As an integral part of planning and review, management from each Groups website.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional business area and major projects identify their risks, the probability of shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are the risks occurring, the impact on the business should the risks occur made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director following the and the actions taken to manage the risks.
The risks are assessed on announcement of the full and half-year results.
Other Directors, a regular basis and could be associated with a variety of internal and including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings with major external sources including regulatory requirements, disruption to shareholders if requested.
information systems, industrial relations issues, control breakdowns and social, ethical and environmental issues.
Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
4.5 Whistleblowing The Non-Executive Directors have also had informal contact with The Group has established procedures whereby employees of the major shareholders regarding the Group during the year and they Group may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to matters of expect that informal dialogue to continue.
potential fraud or other improprieties.
These procedures also cover other issues affecting employees including health and safety issues.
6 Annual General Meeting The confidential hotline, which covers all businesses across the Group All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors and each country in which it operates, was re-launched during the at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a report is made year and the Committee is confident that these whistleblowing on the highlights of the key business developments during the year arrangements are satisfactory and will enable the proportionate and under review.
The Chairmen of each of the Nomination, Remuneration independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up and Audit Committees attend the Annual General Meeting to answer action to be taken.
All Directors who then held office were present at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions system of internal control for the year under review and to the date of are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements through the separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, monitoring process described above.
In addition, the Directors confirm where votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are that they have conducted a specific annual review of the effectiveness subsequently announced to the meeting.
of the Groups internal audit function.
4.7 Treasury Operations The Board has set a policy for the management of those risks and this is set out in more detail in note 25 to the financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best practice and to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
4.8 Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be preposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
