Corporate governance The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining the The Company Secretary is appointed by and responsible to highest possible standards of corporate governance and during the Board and all directors have access to his advice and the year followed the principles set out in Section 1 of the services.
Directors may obtain independent professional advice Combined Code.
if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Formal agendae, papers and reports are supplied to directors in a timely manner, prior The directors consider that, throughout the year ended to Board meetings.
Briefings are also provided at other times, 31 March 2006 the Company complied fully with the for example, through operational visits and business provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
This statement on corporate governance, together with the The Company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive each Remuneration report, provides a commentary on how the having their own separate responsibilities.
Essentially, the Company complied with the principles included in Section Chairman is responsible for the effective working of the 1 of the Combined Code.
Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for all operational matters.
The Board The directors may at any time appoint an additional director.
The directors supervise the management of the business and A formal selection process is carried out, making use of the affairs of the Company and see their prime responsibility external agencies in the selection of suitable candidates where as being to determine the broad strategy of the Group and to it appears necessary or appropriate.
Upon the appointment of ensure its implementation with a view to enhancing the a new director, relevant training is provided as required.
prosperity of the Group and its shareholders over time.
Any director so appointed shall hold office until the next The Board currently comprises three executive and six annual general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment non-executive directors, and their names are listed on page 36. at that meeting.
Following such appointment, the Articles of The Board has reviewed the position of its non-executive Association require each director to retire by rotation and seek directors and has determined that they are all independent in re-election at least every three years.
character and judgement in accordance with the guidance as set out in the Combined Code.
Mr R P Edey has been the Board Committees senior independent director throughout the year.
The Board has appointed the following principal Committees: The Board meets at least six times each year with additional meetings as required.
All directors receive regular information Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by on the Groups operational and financial performance and the Mr R P Edey and its membership comprises non-executive Board has reserved certain items for its review and approval, directors.
It meets at least three times a year and its primary including the annual and interim results, the strategy of the tasks are to receive regular reports from the Groups external Company, the annual profit plan, corporate governance and auditors and the internal audit function, and to review the internal control.
It also makes high level decisions regarding preliminary results, interim information and annual financial acquisitions and divestments, and sets policies on, amongst statements before they are presented to the Board, other things, remuneration, health and safety, and the concentrating particularly on accounting policies and environment.
compliance, areas of management judgement and estimates, and the monitoring of the controls which are in place to During the financial year the Board has undertaken a ensure the integrity of the financial information to be rigorous evaluation of its performance and of its and its reported to shareholders.
The Board concluded that the Committees processes by means of an independent assessment.
Members of the Audit Committee collectively have sufficient This assessment consisted of third party review of all Board financial experience to undertake their tasks.
The Committee papers and the papers of Board Committees as well as also discusses internal control issues, and conducts a review of in-depth interviews with individual Board members.
the remit of the internal audit function, including its authority, A detailed report on the Board and its Committees, together resources and scope of work.
Advice is given to the Board with processes, has been produced together with a number of concerning the appointment and remuneration of external detailed recommendations for future actions.
This has been auditors and the Committee also undertakes an annual review the subject of a preliminary discussion within the Board and of Auditor effectiveness in line with the requirements of the will be discussed further between the Chairman and Combined Code.
The Committee sets the policy on their individual Directors.
Following these discussions, agreed engagement and remuneration for non-audit work which is recommendations will be adopted and implemented as work that they are best suited to perform, will not involve the appropriate.
audit of their own firms work and will not involve them making management decisions for or acting as advocate for 37 FKI plc the Company.
The Auditors have been involved in various The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee completion balance sheet reviews and if there was a major meetings attended by each Director during the year was as disposal or acquisition, the auditors would perform Class 1 follows: work.
Any non-audit services are limited to those areas where Number of Board Audit Remuneration Nominations the company believes the auditors are best placed to provide meetings 8 4 5 such services effectively.
All such services must be approved by Attendance the Finance Director in advance.
The Committee monitors the cost of non-audit work throughout the year and so is in a GPage 7 3 4 2 position to take action at any time if it believes that there is a R P Edey 8 4 5 2 risk of the auditors independence being undermined through N Bamford 8 n a n a n a the award of non-audit work.
R I Case 2 0 1 n a Remuneration Committee This Committee meets at least twice a year, and consists of non-executive directors with C R N Clark 6 3 4 1 Mr C R N Clark as Chairman until his retirement in R L Gott 8 n a n a n a February 2006.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson assumed the role of P Heiden 8 n a n a n a Chairman on an interim basis with Mr R I Case being appointed Chairman with effect from 1April 2006.
Its key Sir Michael role is to make recommendations to the Board on the Hodgkinson 8 4 5 2 Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost, C L Matthews 7 3 4 2 and to determine specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and D J Pearl 4 2 2 n a compensation payments.
The objective of the Remuneration from date of appointment Committee is to ensure that the executive directors are both up to date of cessation of directorship by invitation highly motivated and fairly rewarded for their contributions to the Groups overall performance.
Further details of the Committees work and of the directors emoluments and Communications with interests are set out in the report of the Remuneration shareholders Committee on pages 43 to 53.
In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee disseminated in order to maintain an orderly market in the consists of the Chairman of the Board and all the remaining ordinary shares of the Company, the Company maintains a non-executive directors.
It meets when necessary to make regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and recommendations to the Board on all new Board analysts, particularly following trading updates and results appointments and also to advise generally on issues relating announcements, which are posted on the Companys website, to Board composition and balance.
which provides additional Company information and is regularly updated.
The Board members attend the annual general meeting and, in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available to answer questions.
At annual general meetings, separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution is announced together with the number of abstentions.
Notices of annual general meetings are sent to shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting.
38 FKI plc Corporate governance implementation of the risk management process throughout Financial reporting the Group and the compilation of the Group risk register The directors, who have sole responsibility for the preparation which records all risks which management consider to be and presentation of this report and accounts and other price significant, together with all appropriate mitigating actions.
sensitive public reports, seek to prepare those reports in a way The risk registers are reviewed with the three year business that represents a balanced and understandable assessment of the plans in August September and with the annual budget in Groups position and prospects.
These reviews cover actions completed and the status of ongoing actions.
Internal control and risk An independent review of the risk process was completed in October 2003 and concluded that the risk process was in management system compliance with the Turnbull guidelines.
However it was The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility to decided that a number of improvements could be made to the safeguard the Companys assets and shareholders investment.
process to help meet business objectives.
These recommendations In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors for improving the system have now been implemented and are on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the being embedded into the normal business processes, including Board of FKI has established a risk management policy and approval of tenders, capital expenditure and business projects.
system which are an integral part of the managements Lessons learnt from the implementation and operation of the approach to delivery of the strategic and business objectives.
risk process are being fed back and will be further reviewed in The risk management system is a systematic process designed future to ensure continuous improvement.
to identify, assess, treat, manage and communicate business The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems risks.
It also provides a process for the escalation and of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
delegation of risks to the appropriate level in the operations The Board has reviewed the key risks inherent in the Group, and ensures that actions are properly defined, resourced and together with the operating, financial and compliance controls effected to give confidence in achievement of business that have been implemented to mitigate those key risks.
The system operates throughout FKI and is applied However, any system of internal control can only provide equally to the operating units and corporate function and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material report on significant areas of risk and the appropriate controls.
Risks arise from a wide variety of internal and external The Company has an organisation structure with clearly sources and can be associated with customer requirements, defined lines of responsibility, accountability and delegated competitor actions, regulations and political actions.
They may authority and with clear local operating autonomy within a also arise from the products and services sold by the Group framework of central management, stated corporate aims and and the processes used by operations as part of their normal objectives.
The operating performance of each business is activities.
Management regularly carries out risk assessments regularly reviewed by the executive directors, and progress is covering risks in strategy, risks to achieving commitments monitored against business plans, utilising established contained in contracts with customers, risks in organisational procedures for business planning, budgeting, capital change, risks associated with major projects and risks involving expenditure approval and treasury management.
The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised risks, Whistle blowing policy the probability of them happening and their impact together A revised whistle blowing policy was adopted during the year with the associated action plans to mitigate them.
Operating and details were circulated to all Group companies for display unit and corporate function managers are responsible for these in Group occupied buildings.
Additionally, a copy of the policy action plans and their progress is reported at least twice a year is available on the Groups intranet site.
to the FKI Risk Committee as part of their performance review.
The Risk Committee is accountable for the risk management system and for reporting key risks and associated mitigating actions to the Board through the Audit Committee and meets at least twice a year.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and the other members are the senior executive management.
The Finance Director is responsible for the 39 FKI plc Corporate governance
