ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 39 Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: a. to consider the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee and David Richardson Chairman Non-Executive Director any questions of resignation or dismissal and to make recommendations Bill Harkness Non-Executive Director to the Board for it to put to shareholders: Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director b. to monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are in consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: attendance at the Audit Committee meetings, however, they are not present for the full meeting as the Audit Committee has separate sessions c. to discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit with only the internal and external auditors present.
The Chairman is also and ensure co-ordination where more than one audit rm is involved: in attendance.
d. to develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by Members of the Audit Committee serve for an initial period of up to three the external audit rm: years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three year periods provided the members are considered to be independent.
e. to monitor and review the integrity of the accounts focusing The Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant audit experience.
particularly on any changes in accounting policies and practices, The Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year.
major judgmental areas, significant adjustments resulting from the Bill Harkness was reappointed for a third term in 2004.
Bill Harkness will audit, the going concern assumption, compliance with Accounting retire as a Director immediately following the Annual General Meeting on Standards and compliance with UK Listing Authority, London Stock 2nd May 2007.
Exchange and legal requirements: The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year to receive f. to monitor and review any formal announcements relating to the reports on various matters including the full year accounts March, the Companys financial performance: Interim Statement August, and on planning work for the forthcoming 2006 full year audit November.
g. to monitor and review the Companys internal financial controls: The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee authorise it to seek any h. to monitor and review the internal audit programme, to review the information it requires from any employee and all employees are required co-ordination between the internal and external auditors and to to co-operate with any requests made by the Committee.
The Committee ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced to is authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal or other independent a level commensurate with the Companys requirements: professional advice and to secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it is considered necessary.
i. to ensure that all matters within the remit of the Committee are dealt with in an open, fair and transparent manner: j. to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and k. to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, and to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
The risk management system is reviewed by the Board.
40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee has satisfied itself as to the external auditors During 2006, the Company used four different rms of professional advisers independence: it has considered the external auditors quality control to advise on accounting, corporation tax, VAT and other financial matters.
procedures and has reviewed and approved the level of audit fees by The fees received by the external auditors were as follows: reference to the total level of fees which the external auditor has been 2006 2005 paid during the year: it also compared the fees paid to the external auditor 000 000 with fees paid to other professional advisors for accounting and other tax Statutory audit fees 383 375 work.
It received a presentation from the external auditor in which the Non-audit services: views of the external auditor were expressed in relation to the question Tax advisory services 82 26 of independence.
It also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit IFRS accounting advice 97 process considering the quality of people and service provided by the Other 13 external auditor, the robustness of the audit and the quality of delivery.
465 511 The Audit Committees policy on the external auditors undertaking non-audit work is as follows: The Audit Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness by considering such matters as skillsets of members, quality of Audit 1.
Audit Related Services Committee papers, relationships with the external auditor and the internal This is the primary area of work for the external auditors.
If any auditor and suggestions for improving the Committees performance.
additional accounting support is required, then this should be The results were discussed and approved by the Audit Committee which considered on a competitive basis.
expressed itself satisfied as to its effectiveness.
Tax Consulting The Audit Committee also received a report at three of the meetings from In cases where knowledge of the Groups tax position is important, the internal auditor on the work which he carried out.
A separate Internal Forth Ports may use the external auditors and their associates but this Audit Plan is presented to the Audit Committee by the Internal Auditor for does not preclude the Group from using other tax consulting rms.
consideration in November of each year in respect of the following years significant additional tax work should be evaluated competitively.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is satisfied as to the effectiveness of 3.
General and Systems Consulting that function given the size and complexity of the business.
All significant consulting projects, including due diligence work, should be subject to competitive tender.
The Group Finance Director A whistle blowing policy is in operation throughout the Group.
This policy is required to give prior approval of work to be carried out by the sets out the position whereby any concerns, including those of a financial external auditors if the fee proposal is between 5,000 and 49,999. nature, may be raised at the appropriate level within the Group.
If the fee proposal is in excess of 50,000, this should be pre-approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee if it is proposed to give this work to the external auditors.
