36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Corporate Governance Report The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets and major management The way in which the Company applies the principles set out in the financial decisions as determined from time to time by the Board.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code is described below.
Board Meetings The Board met nine times last year for regular business and the Compliance Statement Directors participated in the Annual Strategy Conference.
The Board The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the meets as necessary for any matters arising at other times.
At each Combined Code throughout the year under review.
Board meeting, the Board considers reports from each of the Executive Directors covering his area of responsibility.
The Combined Code Application of Principles A.
Directors An Annual General Meeting is held every year.
All Directors are subject The Board to re-appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting Christopher Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and after their appointment and thereafter to re-election at intervals of no Charles Hammond is the Group Chief Executive.
Bill Harkness is the more than three years.
There have been no changes to these positions during the year.
At the beginning of the year, the Board of The attendance at Board Meetings during 2006 was as shown below: Directors comprised five Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Name Meetings Attended Directors.
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, to be independent.
Terry Smith retired Christopher Collins 9 on 3rd May 2006.
Bill Harkness will retire immediately following the Charles Hammond 9 Annual General Meeting on 2nd May 2007.
Wilson Murray 9 Terry Smith 5 No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his appointment.
The Board has adopted the Perry Glading 9 principle that Non-Executive Directors should normally serve two three Bill Harkness 8 year terms and that any term beyond six years should be subject to Gerry Brown 9 particularly rigorous review.
In any event, no Non-Executive Director Struan Robertson 8 shall serve longer than nine years.
Bill Harkness was appointed for a third term in 2004.
David Richardson 9 Retired during the year.
The Directors believe that it is essential that the Group should be led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted a formal The Chairman holds one meeting with the Non-Executive Directors Schedule of Matters specically reserved to it on such matters as: without the Executive Directors present.
Agreeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the Sub-Committees of the Board performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management: The Board has delegated certain matters to three sub-committees of the Board comprising the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Controlling and monitoring the financial performance of the Group: Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of the membership of each sub-committee are shown on pages 39 to 48.
Reviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major changes in organisation and direction of the Group: The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, the various sub-committee meetings for the period under review: Approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies including, for example, acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Ensuring compliance in relation to Number of meetings held 4 9 1 a Safety, health and environmental matters Name b Corporate Governance: Christopher Collins n a n a 1 Bill Harkness 3 7 0 Delegating clear responsibility and authority to the Chairman, Committees of the Board, the Group Chief Executive and other Gerry Brown 3 8 1 Directors: Struan Robertson 3 8 1 David Richardson 4 8 1 Compliance with the Companies Act, UK Listing Authority, Charles Hammond n a n a 1 London Stock Exchange and other regulations: and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 37 Group Company Secretary The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board met once without the Chairman and the Executive Directors to evaluate procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
All the performance of the Chairman.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring As part of the annual budget presentation to the Board, the Board that the Directors are fully aware of their duties and responsibilities as reviews the targets which were given to individual Executive Directors Directors and that they undertake appropriate training.
and Senior Managers within the Group and subsequently discusses and approves the targets to be given to these individuals for the Independent Advice following year.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
External Audit Process The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored the effectiveness Unresolved Concerns of the external audit process by way of a questionnaire which reviewed, Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved in on a graded scale, the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery connection with the running of the Company or a proposed action, and the quality of people and service.
The Audit Committee was their concerns are recorded in the Board Minutes.
If a Non-Executive satisfied as to the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Director resigns, he is required to provide a written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if he has any such concerns.
Directors Remuneration Reference is made to the Directors Remuneration Report on Insurance Cover page 41 which sets out the composition of the Remuneration The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and Ofcers Committee, the Companys remuneration policy for Directors and the Trustees of its pension schemes against the costs of defending and details of such remuneration including bonus schemes and themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity pensions for each Director, and the Committees compliance with and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of all relevant sections of the Combined Code.
To the extent permitted by UK Law, the Company also indemnifies its Directors, Ofcers and Trustees.
Neither the insurance All Executive Directors are on one year rolling contracts.
nor the indemnity provides cover where a Director, officer or Trustee has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No Executive Director who has external Directorships is paid for these Directorships.
Annual Evaluation of Performance An annual evaluation of the Boards performance and that of its C. Relations with Shareholders sub-committees, individual Directors and Chairman is undertaken.
The Company encourages regular dialogue with institutional Each Director receives a Board Performance Evaluation Questionnaire shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
and separate Committee Performance Evaluation Forms where appropriate for use in assessing the Boards own performance and The Board receives reports prepared by the Companys broker that of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
As the Nomination which reect the views of the major shareholders on an unattributable Committee meets infrequently, there is no separate Performance basis following the half-yearly and annual presentations to major Evaluation Questionnaire for that Committee however any comments shareholders.
The Board also receives copies of analysts reports on the Nomination Committee may be sent to the Group Company on a regular basis.
Secretary as part of the Board Questionnaire.
In 2006, the Chairman met, or had discussions with certain of the The Committee Performance Evaluation Questionnaires consider Companys major shareholders.
As part of the governance process, fullment of terms of reference, necessary skills and resources of other major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet the members, evaluation of the supporting processes for the Committee Chairman should they so wish.
The Senior Independent Director and an overall view of the effectiveness of the Committee.
The results is also available for meetings if requested.
were compiled and addressed by the Group Company Secretary and reported to the Board.
The results were considered by the Board at its The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with January meeting in 2007.
No major changes were implemented as a private investors and encourages their participation both inside and result of this review.
An evaluation of the performance of the Group Chief Executive and As in prior years, the Company, at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, each of the other Non-Executive Directors was undertaken by the will ensure that the level of proxies for and against each resolution is Chairman.
intimated to shareholders after each resolution has been dealt with.
38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Corporate Governance Report continued D. Financial Reporting and compliance with the 2005 Turnbull Monitoring System used by the Board Committee Guidance on Internal Control the Guidance The Board participates in an annual strategy conference which includes a three year forward financial review which is then updated Internal Control: The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the on an annual basis.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Guidance monitors the Groups performance against those budgets.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee.
No significant findings were identied which required action to be taken.
The process of internal control has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of Audit Committee: Full details of the work of the Audit Committee are the Annual Report and Accounts.
It should be recognised that such contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 39 and 40. a system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the system Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts: Company law requires the which have been established are as follows: Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and Control Environment of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those The Groups control environment is the responsibility of the Groups accounts, the Directors are required to: Directors and managers at all levels.
The Groups organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility.
Operating and financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to the local make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent boards.
prepare a Directors Remuneration Report state that the accounts comply with IFRS Identication of Business Risks and compliance with the Guidance prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is Throughout last year, the Group complied with the Guidance.
inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business The Group Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures involved in the identication of business risks and compliance with The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the Guidance.
The Board regularly reviews the process of identifying, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial evaluating and managing the Groups key risks which allows it to position of the Company and the Group to enable them to ensure take a view on the effectiveness of these procedures.
All subsidiaries that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also are required to assess key risks and related control and monitoring responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group procedures on an ongoing basis.
The Board monitors this process and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection on a regular basis.
of fraud and other irregularities.
Major Corporate Information Systems The maintenance and integrity of the Forth Ports PLC website is the The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial responsibility of the Executive Directors: the work carried out by the reporting system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual results auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, to budget.
Management accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have Variances from budget are thoroughly investigated and revisions occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the to forecasts are made twice during the year.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and are prepared monthly and cover a rolling twelve month period to dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ensure that the Group has adequate funds.
The port business uses the Integrated Port Operating System IPOS to provide it with up-toGoing Concern: The Directors, having made enquiries, have a reasonable date information on marine, general cargo and container operations.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources Together with Cognos software, this enables core information to be to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that tailored to managements own particular requirements to assist in the therefore it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis day-to-day operation of the business.
Main Control Procedures By Order of the Board Divisional management establishes control procedures in response to each of the key risks identied.
Standard financial control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the Groups accounts.
The Board has established procedures for authorisation Morag McNeill of capital expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has Group Company Secretary an internal audit function which carries out a regular programme of systematic reviews of the financial control procedures.
