48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Report of the Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were: The Committee shall also make recommendations to the Board in respect of the following: Christopher Collins Chairman Non-Executive Director a. the re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director: Bill Harkness Non-Executive Director Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director b. the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: David Richardson Non-Executive Director Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive c. the continuation in ofce as a Director of any Director at any time: and The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
d. the appointment of any Director to Executive or other ofce other than to the positions of Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the Members of the Nomination Committee serve for an initial period of up to recommendation for which shall be considered at a meeting of all three years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three the Directors regarding these two appointments.
Bill Harkness was reappointed in 2004 for a third three year period.
Bill Harkness will retire immediately following the Annual General The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any Meeting on 2nd May 2007. employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
It is authorised to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other professional The Committee meets not less than once a year and at such other times advice on any matters within its Terms of Reference.
During the year one meeting was held.
The Nomination Committee appointed Hanson Green, an independent The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: rm of Search Consultants, in November 2006 to carry out a search for a new Non-Executive Director following Bill Harkness retiral.
This process is a. to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a ongoing and it is hoped that an appointment will be made later this year.
particular Board appointment: Following their appointment new Directors and Senior Managers participate b. to be responsible for identifying and nominating, for approval of the in the Companys induction programmes where each individual will meet Board, candidates to ll the Board vacancies as and when they arise: Senior Managers, be shown the principal locations of the Group and be given presentations on the Companys strategy, targets and different c. to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning: business units.
d. to ensure that new Board members have sufficient time to undertake the role: and Christopher Collins Chairman e. to ensure that an appropriate induction plan has been put in place for every new Director.
