30 Board of Directors Alf Duch-Pedersen 60 Nick Buckles 46 Trevor Dighton 57 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer He was appointed to the board of the company He joined Securicor in 1985 as a projects accountant.
An accountant, he joined Securicor in 1995 after in July 2004 on completion of the merger between In 1996 he was appointed managing director of a previous career which included posts in both the Securicor and Group 4 Falcks security businesses, Securicor Cash Services UK and he became chief accountancy profession and in industry, including five having been a member of the board of Group 4 Falck executive of the security division of Securicor in 1999. years in Papua New Guinea, three years in Zambia A S from 2000.
He joined the board of Falck A S in He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc in and seven years with BET plc.
He was appointed 1992 and was its chairman when it merged with 2000 and became its chief executive in January 2002. finance director of the security division of Securicor Group 4 A S in 2000.
He is chairman of the board of He was appointed deputy chief executive and chief in 1997 and deputy group finance director in 2001.
Danske Bank Aktieselskab, a member of the board of operating officer of the company on completion of He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc the Technical University of Denmark, chairman of the the merger between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks as group finance director in June 2002 and as chief British Import Union and a member of the general security businesses in July 2004, becoming chief financial officer of the company on completion of council of the Confederation of Danish Industries.
He is a non-executive director the merger between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks He became chairman of the board and of the of Arriva plc.
Grahame Gibson 54 Lord Condon 60 Executive director Deputy Chairman and chief operating officer He was appointed to the board on completion He was appointed to the board in April 2005. of the merger between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks He joined Group 4 in 1983, starting as finance security businesses, having been a member of the director UK and followed by a number of senior board of Securicor plc from 2000.
He joined the roles, including deputy managing director UK, vice Metropolitan Police in 1967 and, after holding various president corporate strategy, vice president finance senior appointments in the police force, including and administration, vice president operations Central a period as Chief Constable of Kent, served as & South Eastern Europe and UK and chief operating Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police between officer of Group 4 Falck.
He was created a life peer in 2001. between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks security He became deputy chairman of the board in businesses in July 2004, he became divisional president September 2006 and is chairman of the Remuneration for Americas & New Markets.
He was appointed chief Committee and a member of the Nomination operating officer in July 2005.
Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31 Thorleif Krarup 54 Malcolm Williamson 68 Mark Elliott 57 Non-executive director Senior independent director Non-executive director He was appointed to the board on completion of the He was appointed to the board on completion of the He was appointed to the board in September 2006. merger between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks security merger between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks security He is General Manager, Global Solutions, for IBM.
businesses, having been a member of the board businesses, having been a member of the board of Based in the USA, he joined IBM in 1972 and has of Group 4 Falck A S from 2003.
He is chairman Securicor plc from April 2004.
After a 28-year career occupied a number of senior management positions in of Dangaard Telecom A S, deputy chairman of with Barclays Bank, he became managing director of that company including General Manager, IBM Europe, Lundbeck A S, the Lundbeck Foundation LFI A S and Girobank and a member of the Post Office board in Middle East and Africa where he was responsible for ALK-Abello A S, and a director of Bang & Olufsen A S, 1985.
In 1989 he joined Standard Chartered plc, being that companys operations in over 120 countries.
Lundbeckfonden and Scion DTU A S. He is a former group chief executive from 1993 to 1998.
Between He is a non-executive director of Reed-Elsevier PLC.
chairman of TDC Tele Danmark Corporation and 1998 and 2004 he was president and CEO of Visa He is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
former group chief executive of Nykredit A S, International, Inc. based in San Francisco.
He is Unibank A S and Nordea AB.
He is chairman of the chairman of Signet Group plc, CDC Group plc and Audit Committee.
National Australia Group Europe Limited, deputy chairman of Resolution plc and a non-executive director of JP Morgan Cazenove Holdings and Bo Lerenius 60 Non-executive director National Australia Bank Limited.
He is the senior independent director and a member of the Audit He was appointed to the board on completion of the merger between Securicor and Group 4 Falcks and Nomination Committees.
security businesses, having been a member of the board of Securicor plc from April 2004.
After a diverse Mark Seligman 51 early business career, he served as chief executive Non-executive director of Ernstromgruppen, a Swedish building materials He was appointed to the board in January 2006. operation, between 1985 and 1992 when he joined An accountant, he spent 12 years with SG Warburg Stena Line where he was chief executive and vice before joining BZW in 1995 and then, following the chairman.
In 1999 he became group chief executive takeover of BZW, becoming head of UK Investment of Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
He is a Banking at CSFB and subsequently deputy chairman non-executive director of Land Securities Group plc of CSFB Europe.
In 2003 he became chairman of UK and is deputy chairman of the Swedish Chamber of Investment Banking for CSFB, stepping down in 2005 Commerce for the United Kingdom.
He is a member to become a senior adviser to the bank.
He is an of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
alternate member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and is a director of the Industrial Development Advisory Board.
He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
32 Executive Management Nick Buckles Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Ken Niven Chief Executive Group General Counsel Divisional President Cash Services Nick has worked in the security industry for 22 years, Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark and Ken has 11 years experience in the security industry, focusing throughout this time on the commercial and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal having joined Securicor in 1996 as operations director strategic aspects of all areas of security services.
experience as general counsel for international groups of the UK cash services business where he was later in Denmark, Belgium and the US before joining Group promoted to managing director and was instrumental After a variety of commercial roles throughout the 4 Falck in 2001 as general counsel.
Sren has been in the development of new product areas, including group, he was responsible for driving significant profit involved in a wide range of successful mergers and cash centre outsourcing and establishing Securicors improvements in many Securicor businesses acquisitions during his career, including the acquisition independent ATM network.
throughout the 1990s as a business unit managing of Wackenhut and the merger of Group 4 Falck and director and divisional chief executive of the security Ken was appointed to his current role in July 2004 Securicor.
Sren now has overall responsibility for all division.
He was also instrumental in the development and is responsible for the cash services division, which internal and external legal services for Group 4 of Securicors security sector focus and in bringing includes all of the major cash services business units, Securicor as well as the groups insurance programme.
together Group 4 Falck and Securicor to create the and for sharing cash services best practice throughout new combined group.
Nick became chief executive Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law Society, the entire organisation.
Ken joined the security of Group 4 Securicor in July 2005. a board member of the Danish Blood Donation industry following a successful career within the Society and author of the book Executive logistics management industry where he held senior Nick is president of ESTA, the European cash Management Contracts, published in Denmark.
roles at Express Foods, Excel Logistics and Coca Cola.
He is also chairman of the Ligue Internationale des Societes fide Surveillance, the Ken is a member of the Chartered Institute of Trevor Dighton international association of leading security companies.
Chief Financial Officer Trevor has worked in the security industry for 21 Grahame Gibson Irene Cowden years.
After several years in both the accountancy COO & Divisional President Group HR Director profession and commerce working in the finance Security Services Irene has spent her career in HR management, function and general management, he joined BET Grahame has been involved in the security industry specialising in employee relations, organisational in 1986 as finance director of their Security and for 24 years, having joined Group 4s UK operating development, talent management and compensation Communications Division.
company in 1983 as finance director.
She has been involved in major change projects Grahame has held a number of operational, Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following including the cultural and integration aspects of management and board positions in the UK, Denmark, a number of years as finance director of the mergers and acquisitions as well as large scale the Netherlands and Austria.
His broad experience of security division, he was appointed to the board of organisational change involving workforce restructuring, the security industry and management of businesses Securicor plc in June 2002 as group finance director.
working in partnership with major trade unions.
across a diverse range of cultures has been invaluable He became chief financial officer of Group 4 Securicor Irene has worked in the security industry for over 26 to the group throughout its development.
Grahame in July 2004. years and has held director level positions at business joined the board of Group 4 Securicor in April 2005.
Trevor is a member of the Chartered Institute of unit, divisional and corporate level.
Grahame is a board member of the Ligue Management Accountants.
Irene is a member of the Chartered Institute of Internationale des Societes fide Surveillance.
