Corporate governance statement The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 48 to 58, describes how the Company has applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code.
The Company complied with the requirements of the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year under review, save for the following areas: Code Provision A.
2.2: Upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 9 May 2005, Ralph Bernard did not meet the independence criteria set out in Code Provision A.
In September 2005, Ralph Bernard relinquished the role of Chairman and became Chief Executive.
Peter Cawdron, who replaced Ralph Bernard as Chairman, did meet the independence criteria upon his appointment.
Code Provision C. 3.1: From 8 May 2005, Peter Williams, who does not meet the independence criteria set out in Code Provision A.
3.1, has been a member of the Audit Committee and therefore the Committee did not consist solely of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company, and the Audit Committee, consider that notwithstanding his position as Finance Director of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, a substantial shareholder in the Company, Peter Williams has always displayed an independence of mind and action in his dealings with the Audit Committee and the Company.
Indeed, his experience as Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company benefits the Audit Committee and the Company to a significant extent.
Directors The Board of GCap Media plc is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
Its principal focus is the overall direction and control of the Group.
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other Executive Directors and six other Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies set out on pages 18 and 19 illustrate the Directors breadth of experience which should ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of Executive and Non-executive presence.
All of the Non-executive Directors identified as being independent are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Peter Williams, who is identified as being not independent, is considered to bring significant financial and other experience to the Board and his continuing presence on the Board is, in the Directors opinion, beneficial to the Company and the Group.
The Non-executive Directors bring individual judgement to Board decisions and extensive expertise at a senior level of business operation and practice.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and each Director receives appropriate training on appointment and subsequently if necessary.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Board regularly re-evaluates the mix of skills and experience of its members.
During the course of the year to 31 March 2006, the Board completed a formal internal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, using a questionnaire-based approach.
The Board intends to undertake an external review within the next two years.
All new Directors receive a full induction into the Company as soon as possible after appointment.
The induction process involves meetings with representatives of all areas of the Companys business and visits to key locations.
The role of the Board and its Committees, as well as a directors responsibilities, are also explained to the Directors.
Directors have opportunities to receive training and these opportunities are to be developed further to include areas that affect each Directors role within the Company, including corporate governance and risk management.
All Directors are kept regularly updated on the Companys business throughout their period of office.
The Board met 11 times throughout the period and the annual programme of business is approved by the Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy together with the operations and results of the main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets.
Actual results for the Group and individual business units are reported to all Directors each month.
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports, are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
The Board reserves to itself certain key matters to approve or monitor, such as the Groups strategic plans, annual operating plan and budget, the Groups operating and financial performance, projects affecting the capital structure of the Group and unbudgeted capital expenditure.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Committees as described below: The Audit Committee at the beginning of the financial year comprised Peter W Williams as Chairman, Tony Illsley and Barbara Thomas.
Following the merger with GWR Group plc, the Committee comprised Peter W Williams as Chairman, Tony Illsley, Patricia Hodgson and Peter Williams Barbara Thomas having resigned from the Committee on 9 May 2005.
Peter W Williams has recent and relevant experience for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, having been Chief Executive of Selfridges and he is a qualified chartered accountant.
The Committee met five times during the financial period to review the 2006 results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures and is responsible for the appointment of external auditors.
The Group has an internal risk and audit function that conducts a rolling programme of reviews and introduces improvements to the Groups financial controls.
The Committee believes that this function will continue to prove beneficial in identifying and correcting any control deficiencies.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Finance Director and by other Directors and the Groups external and internal auditors as appropriate.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 44 The Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the financial year comprised Peter Mitchell as Chairman, Tim Mason, Tony Illsley and Peter W Williams.
Following the merger with GWR Group plc the Committee comprised Alastair Ross Goobey as Chairman, Tim Mason, Peter Cawdron and Peter Michael Tony Illsley, Peter W Williams and Peter Mitchell having resigned from the Committee on 9 May 2005.
Tony Illsley was subsequently re-appointed to the Committee during the year concurrent with the standing down of Tim Mason from the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
Peter Cawdron resigned from the Committee upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company in September 2005.
The Committee met seven times during the year to review the Companys general policy on executive remuneration and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company.
The Committee approves the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors.
The Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 48 to 58 contains a more detailed description of the Companys policy and procedures for executive remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee at the beginning of the financial year comprised Peter Cawdron as Chairman, Barbara Thomas, Peter Mitchell and Tony Illsley.
Following the merger with GWR Group plc the Committee comprised Ralph Bernard as Chairman, Alastair Ross Goobey, Peter Cawdron and Peter Mitchell Barbara Thomas and Tony Illsley having resigned from the Committee on 9 May 2005.
Upon his appointment to the position of Chief Executive in September 2005, Ralph Bernard resigned from the Committee and Peter Cawdron became its Chairman.
Patricia Hodgson was appointed to the Committee during the year concurrent with the resignation of Peter Mitchell from the Committee.
The Committee meets as required to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as Directors.
The Committee met once during the year.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, currently the nearest number to, but not exceeding, one-third of the Board shall retire each year by rotation Directors may submit themselves for re-election.
In practice, all Directors offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Articles were amended at the AGM held in October 2005 to reflect this practice.
Details of appointments during the year and Directors retiring and submitting themselves for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on page 40.
The Company considers that the performance of and contribution given by each Director who is retiring by rotation and is submitting themselves for re-election at the AGM continues to be effective.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board one of which was a two-day strategy meeting and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 March 2006, together with details of attendance.
Board meeting and Board committee dates were set and agreed following the Merger on 9 May 2005 to reflect the ability of the majority of Directors to attend.
Inevitably some Directors particularly Stella Pirie and Tim Mason had unbreakable commitments on some dates preventing attendance, which is demonstrated by the details in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meeting Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible R Bernard 10 10 1 1 S Orchard 3 3 W Pallot 10 10 P Cawdron 10 11 3 3 1 1 P Hodgson 10 10 4 4 A Illsley 11 11 5 5 2 2 T Mason 7 11 4 7 P Michael 10 10 5 5 P Mitchell 10 11 2 2 1 1 S Pirie 6 10 A Ross Goobey 10 10 5 5 1 1 P W Williams 10 115 522 P Williams 9 10 4 4 D Mansfield 4 5 P Davies 1 1 P Harris 1 1 L Smith 1 1 B Thomas 1 1 0 1 Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 48 to 58 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each Director who served during the year to 31 March 2006.
Shareholders will be invited to consider separately the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 July 2006.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 45 Corporate governance statement continued Relations with shareholders There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Companys Communications Director.
In addition there are presentations of the annual and interim results and other topics.
This activity is a keystone of the Companys corporate communications programme.
The programme includes formal presentations in London of the Companys full-year and interim results and meetings between institutional investors, analysts and senior management on a regular basis.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the Companys Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website www.
com which contains up-to-date information on Group activities.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, and also involves a short statement on the Companys latest trading position.
Shareholders may ask questions of the Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The results of the proxy votes submitted by shareholders in respect of each resolution are declared at the Annual General Meeting.
Alastair Ross Goobey, the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has also met shareholder representatives during the year in connection with the new remuneration structure proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and subsequent changes to it, and to report the payments made to the departing Executive Directors.
Auditors independence and objectivity The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a formal policy to ensure these do not affect their independence or objectivity.
The policy is reviewed regularly by the Committee.
Internal control In September 1999, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance was published to assist directors in complying with the internal control elements of the Combined Code.
The Financial Services Authority requires all listed companies to follow this guidance when determining the extent of their compliance with the Combined Code.
Associated undertakings have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying these guidelines.
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and these accord with the Turnbull Guidance, which the Board has fully adopted.
These procedures have been in place for the financial period covered in this Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval, and their effectiveness is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the financial period.
In particular, the Board has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
There are supporting Group policies and procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has an established internal risk management function and has appointed a Head of Risk Management to identify, with relevant management, the major business risks facing the Group and put in place appropriate policies and procedures to manage those risks.
Internal and external risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
These involve a process of control, selfassessment and hierarchical reporting that has been established to provide a documented trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Management regularly reports on its review of the risks and how they are managed to both the Board and the Audit Committee, whose role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and the systems of control necessary to manage those risks.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board as appropriate.
Management also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
The Board is provided with monthly financial information, which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
The Board reviews the risk management and control process of the Group and considers, gives guidance, and to the extent necessary, makes decisions on the following: authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: monitoring of reports from Group management: maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk: and annual reporting procedures.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 46 Going concern The Group continues to generate a positive operating cashflow.
As a result the Directors are confident in making the following formal statement on going concern: After making appropriate enquiries, including a review of budgets and other plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Richard Manning On behalf of the Board Company Secretary 24 May 2006 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 47
