ALFRED McALPINE PLC 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance The Board of Alfred McAlpine plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
This commitment is based on compliance with The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, and established and emerging best practice.
Throughout 2006, the Company complied fully with the Code, save that the Board comprised five Executive and, following the appointment of Dr R J Urwin, with effect from 1 September 2006, five Non-executive Directors one of whom was the Chairman, rather than an equal number of Executive and independent Non-executive Directors as recommended by principle A.
The Board continues to believe that the current size of the Board is appropriate for the Company, and that the balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors is correct.
Review of the Group control framework As reported on pages 4 to 5 of the Chairmans statement and on page 12 of the Group Chief Executives Business Review, on 26 February 2007, the Group announced that accounting irregularities involving the deliberate mis-statement of sales and production volumes had been uncovered within the Groups slate business.
On discovering these irregularities, the Board immediately suspended two senior managers at Slate and instigated an independent forensic investigation, which was led by Ashurst and Deloitte under the control of the Audit Committee.
The independent forensic investigation concluded that a systematic and extensive fraud had been perpetrated by senior managers of the slate business over a number of years.
The fraud involved the systematic circumvention of the controls to overstate the business results, and the investigation concluded that the behaviour and collusion of the managers responsible was entirely deliberate.
Ashurst and Deloitte have advised that they believe that it is clear, given the extensive collusion of senior managers in the slate business, that steps would have been taken to attempt to circumvent whatever financial controls were put in place.
Notwithstanding this, the controls in the slate business have been reviewed and, in accordance with the recommendations made by Deloitte, further strengthened where possible.
The remit of the Deloitte investigation also included a wider review of relevant key financial control procedures in the Groups core businesses.
The review confirmed that the Company has an established and sound corporate governance structure and an appropriate internal control framework and validated the robustness and appropriateness of the control procedures in the Groups core businesses.
No material issues were identied.
The recommendations that Deloitte made following this review for further improving the Groups internal control framework are being implemented as appropriate.
Governance structure The overall corporate governance structure is illustrated in the diagram below.
Each of the key components of the structure is described in the headed paragraphs below.
Audit Committee Board Remuneration Committee Routine Business Committee Nomination Committee GEC Approves Group Reviews authority and approves listing Group policy maual Corporate Audit Group Risk Committee BUSINESS Business Services Project Services Infrastructure Services Slate STREAMS Internal Reviewed control framework Group Executive Committee ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200625 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board The Board comprised five Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors one of whom was the Chairman until 1 September 2006 when an additional Non-executive Director was appointed.
Biographical details of the Directors can be found on pages 20 and 21 together with details of Committee memberships.
At the time of publication of this Report, the search process is under way to recruit an Executive Director to ll the vacancy on the Board left following the resignation of Dominic Lavelle, Group Finance Director, on 23 April 2007.
A number of matters are reserved for the Boards formal approval: these include major capital expenditure, treasury and dividend policy, overall Group strategy and all Group budgets and business plans.
These matters are clearly identied in the Group Authority Listing, which sets out the requirements for notication and authorisation of transactions and procedures throughout the Group.
The Group Authority Listing is reviewed regularly and at least annually and is readily available to all employees via the Group intranet.
Board meetings and attendance Seven Board meetings were held during the year.
In addition, Group strategy was reviewed at a meeting set aside for this purpose in July.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Board and principal Board Committee meetings during 2006.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 4 3 3 C D Collins 7433 i i I M Grice 74 3 3 R E Hough 7 4 3 3 i D Lavelle 7 4 C M McGilvray 7 A R Robertson 7 M D Swan 7 ii P H Swatman 6 433 iii iii R J Urwin1 11 i i G O Whitehead 74 3 3 i Attendance by invitation for all or part of the meeting.
ii Mr P H Swatman was unable to attend one scheduled meeting.
iii Dr R J Urwin attended one of two Board meetings, one of two Remuneration Committee meetings and one Audit Committee meeting, held between 1 September 2006 the date of his appointment and 31 December 2006.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have distinct roles and there is clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and proper communication with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for implementing Group strategy and ensuring the effectiveness of the executive functions.
These respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The current Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead, is due to retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 June 2007, when he will be succeeded by Dr R J Urwin, who is currently considered to be independent.
The Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, for specified terms.
They are subject to periodic re-appointment by shareholders following consideration by the Nomination Committee, and are subject to statutory provisions regarding removal.
The terms of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
Each of the Non-executive Directors has significant external commercial experience, and brings expert advice and strong judgement to the Board.
There are clear channels of communication between the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman, providing opportunities for private discussion outside Board meetings.
The Directors are of the opinion that, with the exception of the Chairman, each of the Non-executive Directors is independent of the Companys management and free from any restraint that could materially interfere with the exercise of his judgement.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors takes the form of an annual fee, which is set by the Board in line with market levels for the role undertaken.
As Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead is the only Non-executive Director for whom pension and other benets are provided by the Company.
Non-executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any bonus scheme or to receive options or awards under any of the Companys share schemes.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Senior Independent Non-executive Director Mr C D Collins is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
He was appointed to the Board in September 2000.
Having completed two three-year terms, his appointment has been reviewed and extended to the end of 2007.
Re-appointment of Directors The Companys articles of association require that all of the Directors submit themselves for re-appointment at every third Annual General Meeting.
Although the articles allow the Group Chief Executive to be excluded from this requirement, the Board has determined that all Directors shall comply with the articles.
The names of the Directors submitting themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in the Directors Report on page 22.
Board evaluation A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was carried out in 2006.
This considered the composition and effectiveness of each body and its individual members.
Individual interviews were conducted by the Chairman with each Board member, and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director reviewed the performance of the Chairman with each of the other independent Non-executive Directors, taking into account the comments of the Executive Directors.
As in previous years, Board members were asked to complete a detailed questionnaire on an extensive range of issues which included conduct of meetings, content and time allocation, availability and quality of information, numbers and quality of membership and the value of presentations to the Board.
Training and development needs, succession planning, quality of communications, both internally and externally, and the effectiveness of risk management policies and practices were also covered, as were questions on the appropriateness of and adherence to the Group strategy, corporate responsibility, culture and values.
Responses were largely positive with constructive and creative comments.
As in previous years, the responses have been reviewed and, where necessary, acted upon, with suggestions being agreed and implemented.
The Board believes that this assessment of performance, both collectively and individually, has been carried out in a thoroughly appropriate manner, and intends to repeat the process on an annual basis.
Board training and development Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive a formal induction introducing them to the operations and management of the business.
Site visits are also arranged so as to familiarise the newly appointed Director with the Group.
All Directors receive up-to-date information about the Groups operations and periodic briengs on legal, regulatory and accounting developments.
The Secretary and independent advice The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Chairman on governance matters.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Directors consider it reasonable for any Director who wishes to seek independent legal advice to consult the Company, before advice is sought and any costs are incurred by the Group.
Board and other Committees The Board has established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, Routine Business and Corporate Risk Committees.
All are formally constituted with written terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
Terms of reference are available to view and download from the Group website: www.
com investor governance Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the Independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Mr P H Swatman who is appropriately qualied and has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee currently meets four times a year.
The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the external Auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
The other Executive Directors, each of whom is responsible for one of the three principal Business Streams, and the Groups Head of Corporate Audit attend when required by the Committee.
Each meeting provides an opportunity for discussion between the Non-executive Directors and the external Auditors, from which the Executive Directors and the Group Company Secretary are excluded.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on matters discussed at each Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee oversees the work of the Groups corporate audit team, formally reviewing the remit and scope of its plans in advance to ensure that the necessary resources are available and that appropriate priorities are set.
In reviewing the findings of the corporate audit team, the Committee pays particular attention to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control summary details of which are set out on page 28.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200627 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Committee continues to review the resources available to the corporate audit team and to develop the corporate audit plan in the light of the Groups development and ongoing risk assessments.
Subsequent to the end of the 2006 financial year, the Committee is also making use of the Deloitte review of controls to further rene the corporate audit plan.
The Head of Corporate Audit is able to meet with the Audit Committee Chairman, independently of the executive management team, as appropriate and will meet formally with the Audit Committee Chairman on a quarterly basis, again independent of the executive management team, to report on the progress made in progressing the agreed annual corporate audit plan.
The Groups internal controls are reviewed annually by the external Auditors to the extent they are relied on as part of the audit process and are developed in the light of recommendations made as a result of these reviews.
Subsequent to the end of the 2006 financial year, the Committee has also made use of the Deloitte review of controls to further enhance the Groups internal control framework.
The Committee also monitors the schedule of key risks identied by the Group Executive Committee GEC and ranked according to materiality and probability.
By reference to these sources, the Committee has reviewed and continues to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and identies any areas where improvement may be required.
In relation to risk management, the Committee also considers the activities of the Corporate Risk Committee and the contract risk attaching to major projects undertaken by the Group.
The review of systems of internal control and risk management measures is also applied to the Groups material joint ventures and associates.
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which employees across the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, with a view to ensuring arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action.
The whistle-blowing policy is described on page 29.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Groups external Auditors.
The Committee also reviews the scope, result and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors.
Details of non-audit services provided by  LLP to the Group during 2006 are set out in note 2 to the Accounts on page 52.
Such work is only awarded to  LLP following careful assessment of their expertise relative to that of other potential service providers: the value for money offered: and assurances that, individually or cumulatively with any other factors, the independence of  LLP is not at risk of compromise.
The award of non-audit work to  LLP is subject to pre-determined fee thresholds, requiring prior approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Committee.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is normally chaired by the Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead, and comprises the Non-executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee meets as required and nominates candidates for appointment and re-appointment to the Board.
The Committee met three times during the year to consider the appointment of a successor to the current Chairman.
In accordance with the Code, Mr Whitehead did not chair the meetings at which his successor was considered, Mr C D Collins took the chair.
The Committee considered the qualities and experience required of a Chairman and produced a job specication for the role.
Having considered a number of applicants identied using a specialist external search agency, the Committee recommended the appointment of Dr R J Urwin, who was appointed by the Board on 1 September 2006.
Dr Urwin will take over as Chairman when Mr Whitehead retires from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in 2007.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Mr R E Hough.
The Committee meets three or four times a year and is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and key senior executives.
The Committees Remuneration Report can be found on pages 30 to 38.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee comprises any two Directors one of whom has either to be the Group Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director and the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee deals primarily with routine administrative and banking matters arising between Board meetings and matters that have been approved in principle by the Board that do not warrant specic sub-committees.
Group Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility for the executive business of the Group not specically reserved to the Board or Committees to the GEC.
Comprising the Executive Directors, the Group Director of Human Resources, the Group Company Secretary and the Director of Corporate Development, the GEC is responsible for developing and implementing the Group strategy.
The GEC meets twelve times a year, with additional meetings as required to discuss specic issues.
The GEC is also responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of the Groups system of internal control.
Corporate Risk Committee The Corporate Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and comprises the Head of Corporate Audit, the Group Director of Human Resources, the Group Company Secretary, the Group Director of HSE and Corporate Responsibility, the Group Legal Adviser, the Group Tax Manager and the Group Insurance Manager.
The Committee meets on a quarterly basis and considers areas of risk that are not businessspecic.
The Committee also provides a means of disseminating risk management issues and best practice across the Group.
Committee proceedings are reported to the Audit Committee by the Group Finance Director.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 28 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Accountability and audit Internal control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management, in order to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets, and regularly, and at least annually, reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Should the Board identify any significant failings or weaknesses as part of this review process, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Board has therefore complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Code throughout the financial year to 31 December 2006 and up to the date of approval of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control issued in 2005, a process has been established, and is ongoing, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Such a system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular needs and mitigate the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Group has a control environment, with policies, processes and codes of conduct that are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk across a wide range of business activities.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and appropriate internal controls are embedded into the Groups management systems wherever possible.
In 2004, the Group embarked on a progressive and detailed review of its principal IT systems.
This process, which identies areas where upgrades are necessary to enhance consistency across the Groups various businesses and support future growth, continued through 2005 and 2006.
During 2006, the Corporate Risk Committee led a review of Group controls, including the Group Policy Manual.
the Group Authority Listing and the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
The key components of the Groups system of internal control are: The HSE and Corporate Responsibility team, which reports to the Group Chief Executive, with the objective of monitoring and improving the health, safety and environmental performance of the Group.
The Corporate Audit team, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director on compliance with procedures and authority limits and on the effectiveness of the bottom-up risk management strategies of the businesses, such that the principal areas of business risk and exposure are identied, evaluated and mitigated.
The corporate audit function is also involved in overseeing a system of peer reviews involving audit of business units by other operational staff.
An established management structure for the major operating businesses, with short lines of communication to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Company Secretary.
A comprehensive financial reporting system of annual budgets, periodic forecasts and detailed monthly reporting, together with weekly cash reporting.
Budgets and forecasts are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Delegation through the Group Policy Manual of clearly dened responsibilities and procedures, with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels for the maintenance of effective controls across the whole Group.
A bottom-up system of self-assessment whereby each business and business unit within the Group addresses on a comprehensive basis its approach to controlling business risks, culminating in the annual completion of an internal control framework document.
Management of operational risk is reviewed on a monthly basis, and risk registers are developed for each contract at the tender and approval stages.
The corporate audit team conducts regular reviews of contracts at the execution stage.
A top-down quarterly Group-level review carried out by the GEC to identify the major risks facing the Group and to develop and implement appropriate initiatives to manage those risks.
This information is summarised in the schedule of key risks.
As an integral part of the GECs regular meetings, assessment is made of the progress against objectives, changes to operational risk, adequacy of control and handling of any problems which arise from such reviews.
The twice-yearly review by the Board of the schedule of key risks identied by the GEC.
Advised by the Audit Committee, the Board considers the extent to which the measures taken by the Group address those risks.
A Corporate Risk Committee, reporting to the Audit Committee, which co-ordinates risk management activities across the Group, focusing on those areas not covered by the GEC in its quarterly reviews.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200629 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Risk management process The risk management process comprises the identication and management of risk at both corporate and operational levels.
The GEC assesses the significant risks to the Group as a whole and to each part of the business and records its findings in the Key Risks document.
All risks identied by the GEC and by management are reviewed by the internal corporate audit team during the year.
An overall risk map summarising the likelihood and impact of each risk is reported to the Audit Committee.
Any actions agreed to mitigate risk are monitored during the year.
The internal audit team also reviews the Internal Control Frameworks which are completed by the senior management of each business to illustrate their monitoring of the control systems.
Risk management is discussed at Business Stream level by the Business Stream board meetings which are held monthly and attended by either the Group Finance Director or the Group Chief Executive.
Fraud management policy The Group has now consolidated its fraud risk management policies into a Group-wide fraud risk management policy.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for the operation of this consolidated programme.
Whistle-blowing policy and ethics policy Following a recommendation from the Corporate Risk Committee, the Audit Committee has commissioned independent advisers to review and update the Groups existing whistle-blowing policy.
This policy actively encourages employees to report fraud and wrong-doing through line management, a member of the Human Resources team or the Group centre.
A condential, anonymous and independently operated whistle-blowing hotline is being introduced.
The Group has an ethics policy which is disseminated to all employees on joining the Company and is available on the Company intranet.
The policy is designed to encourage employees to ask questions to identify whether an action raises an ethical concern and, if such a situation arises, to offer guidance including who to contact for further assistance.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages two-way communications with its institutional and private investors.
Each year, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend a series of meetings with analysts, shareholders and private client brokers, who are also invited to attend a number of business specic presentations at the Companys sites.
Feedback from these investor meetings, collected by the Companys broker, is made available to the Board.
Analysts reports are also circulated to the Board, and feedback from analyst meetings is also made available to the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Groups advisers.
The Non-executive Directors attend the AGM each year.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director are available to meet with any major shareholder when reasonably requested.
All queries from shareholders are dealt with in a timely manner, with welcome packs being sent to new shareholders.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with both of the reports of the Auditors set out on pages 39 and 70, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the accounts: The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and detect irregularities and fraud.
The Directors confirm that in preparing the Groups accounts appropriate policies have been consistently applied and they have complied with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
These accounts have been produced in accordance with IFRS.
Further, in all material respects the accounts are supported by prudent judgements and estimates made by reference to information available at the time of preparation.
The Directors are also responsible for the integrity and maintenance of the Groups websites.
The Group financial statements are published on the Groups main website www.
com and follow UK guidance as regards preparation and dissemination requirements in other jurisdictions may vary.
All Directors bring independent judgement to bear on deliberations concerning strategy and performance.
The Directors are satisfied that throughout the period they have had access to sufficient information to enable them to make proper decisions in a timely manner, and the Chairman has ensured that all Directors were kept properly briefed.
Going concern After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts and taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to enable them to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the accounts which appear on pages 40 to 78 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
