qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:07 Page 41 Governance Corporate Governance Introduction and which can be found on the George Wimpey Plc website The Board is fully committed to high standards of corporate governance www.
and corporate responsibility throughout the Group.
The Board supports the There are four standing Board Committees: Nomination, Audit, Corporate Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code as published Social Responsibility and Remuneration.
Each Board Committee operates in July 2003 and updated in June 2006.
The Listing Rules of the Financial within its clearly defined terms of reference and reports back to the Board Services Authority require the Company to include a statement to allow at the next Board Meeting.
Membership of these Committees is reviewed shareholders to evaluate how it has applied the principles and provisions of regularly with a view to ensuring that the expertise and background of each good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
This Report, Director is used to the best advantage of the Company and the need to together with the information set out in the Remuneration Report on pages refresh Committee membership as appropriate.
44 to 50, is published pursuant to the Combined Code which deals with directors, directors remuneration, relations with and accountability to During 2006 the Board met formally, as a whole, ten times.
Twice yearly the shareholders and the audit of the company.
Together, the two Reports are Board spends time with a business unit in the UK and the US which consists intended to explain how the Company has applied the principles in Section 1 of site visits, presentations from local management and also provides the of the Combined Code and provide an insight into how the Board and opportunity for the Board to meet employees both on site and in the host management run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
Statement of compliance During the year, there were no absences from any Board meetings by As a result of the Company adopting early one of the principal changes any Director.
of the 2006 Combined Code, which lifted the restriction on a company In line with the Combined Code, the Board considers that an independent chairman serving on the remuneration committee, John Robinson, who was Director is one who is independent in character and judgement and where considered independent on his appointment as Chairman, was appointed there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect the Directors to the Remuneration Committee on 18 October 2006.
This was ahead of judgement.
Based on this criteria the Board is fully satisfied that each of its the date on which the Financial Reporting Council recommended that Non Executive Directors is independent and has acted accordingly throughout companies should voluntarily adopt the the 2006 Combined Code, namely the year.
In line with the Combined Code, there will be a rigorous review of 1 November 2006.
Otherwise, the Board considers that it has complied with any Non Executive Director wishing to hold office for more than six years the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
with such review also taking into account the need for progressive refreshing The principal changes of the 2006 Combined Code are as set out below: of the Board.
The Board is of the view that the Non Executive Directors play to amend the existing restriction on the company chairman serving on the an important role in upholding corporate governance and in ensuring that remuneration committee to enable him or her to do so where considered no individual or group dominates the Boards decision making process.
In independent on appointment as chairman: achieving this, the independence of Non Executive Directors is vital.
to provide a vote withheld option on proxy appointment forms to enable The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, met the indepence criteria shareholders to indicate if they have reservations on a resolution but do not set out in paragraph A.
wish to vote against: and The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separately to recommend that companies publish on their website the details of proxies held and have been throughout the year.
There is a clear division of lodged at a general meeting where votes are taken on a show of hands.
responsibilities between each position which is documented.
In brief, the Chairman is responsible for the working of the Board and all matters As a matter of best practice, for a number of years, the Company had already relating to it including its balance and composition subject to Board complied with the second and third changes set out above.
and shareholder approval and for effective shareholder communications.
During the year a formal whistleblowing procedure was put in place across The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the the Morrison Homes business.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on the Group and its businesses.
He develops the strategy for Board approval agenda of each meeting of the Audit Committee, at which time the and is then responsible for its implementation.
Committee reviews the whistleblowing procedures in place across the David Williams is the Senior Independent Director appointed in line with Group in line with the Combined Code.
the Combined Code and has held that position throughout the year.
In line The Board of Directors with the Combined Code, the Senior Independent Director provides an On 1 January 2007, the Board consisted of the Chairman John Robinson, additional contact point for shareholders if they have reason for concern the Group Chief Executive Peter Redfern, three other Executive Directors for which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief and five independent Non Executive Directors.
Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
As announced on 21 February 2006, Peter Johnson stood down from the Board as Group Chief Executive on 30 June 2006 and was succeeded by Peter The Articles of Association require one third of the Directors who are subject Redfern with effect from 1 July 2006.
Peter Redfern was a director of the to retirement by rotation to retire at each Annual General Meeting with the Company throughout the year and held the post of Deputy Group Chief Directors due to retire by rotation being those who have been longest Executive with effect from 21 February 2006 to 30 June 2006 and prior to in office since their last appointment or reappointment.
In line with the that had been Chief Executive of the George Wimpey UK business.
Combined Code each Director also seeks reappointment every three years.
Andrew Carr-Locke is the Group Finance Director and held that position Accordingly, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting three Directors will throughout the year.
Steve Parker is the President of Morrison Homes and be required to retire by way of rotation: Andrew Carr-Locke, Christine Cross and was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2006.
Ian Sutcliffe joined the Brenda Dean being the longest standing Directors since their appointment Company in February 2006 as Managing Director of George Wimpey UK or reappointment, will therefore retire and offer themselves for and was appointed to the Board on 11 October 2006. reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Any new Directors appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Throughout the year, in line with the Combined Code, excluding the Chairman, Meeting must, in accordance with the Articles, seek reappointment at at least half of the Board comprised independent Non Executive Directors.
A list of Directors and details of their biographies is set out on page 36.
David the next Annual General Meeting and shall not be taken into account Williams, Christine Cross, Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by were independent Non Executive Directors throughout the year.
Accordingly, Ian Sutcliffe who was appointed on 11 October 2006 will be seeking reappointment at the Annual General The business and management of the Company is the collective responsibility Meeting.
Steve Parker was appointed by the Board during the year and of the whole Board.
At each meeting the Board reviews the performance of was reappointed by shareholders at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
each of its trading businesses in detail and during each year it undertakes a comprehensive strategic review.
There is a formal written schedule of matters An induction programme is provided for new directors which includes reserved for consideration and approval by the Board and these include the the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on annual budget, major land purchases and investment proposals, the approval the Group including its corporate governance policies and procedures.
of annual and interim results and a review of the overall system of internal Where appropriate, newly appointed directors are also provided with the control and risk management.
The Board has formal clearly defined terms of opportunity of attending a training course on the role and responsibilities reference which take into account the requirements of the Combined Code of being a director in a public limited company.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:07 Page 42 Governance Corporate Governance continued Formal agendas and reports for Board and Committee meetings are The Committee is responsible for reviewing the external audit process provided to Directors one week prior to the meeting, thus allowing and for monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls.
It also considers sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents major accounting issues.
The Committee supports the Board in reviewing beforehand.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive maintain regular information which is sent to shareholders to ensure that it presents a contact with all Directors.
James Jordan is the Group Company Secretary balanced assessment of the Companys position.
In addition, the Committee and General Counsel Secretary and he attends all Board and Board reviews the performance and objectivity of PwC, the scope of its work and Committee meetings Nomination, Remuneration, Corporate Social that of the Companys Internal Audit Department.
It also reviews the fees to Responsibility and Audit.
All Directors have direct access to the Secretary be paid to PwC for both audit and non audit related work.
The Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the During the year the Committee formally met on four occasions and there correct procedures are followed at all Board and Committee meetings.
He reports directly to the Chairman and also to the Group Chief Executive.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Board has adopted a procedure whereby any Director may seek, Current Members: Christine Cross Committee Chair, Brenda Dean and Steve through the office of the Secretary, independent professional advice, Parker who were members throughout the year and Ian Sutcliffe who at the Companys expense, in furtherance of his or her duties.
became a member with effect from 1 July 2006 in place of Peter Redfern.
The collective performance of the Board and its Committees has been The Committee has formal terms of reference which can be found on reviewed annually for a number of years.
This year, the process was enhanced the George Wimpey Plc website www.
co. uk and is by the use of a non attributable questionnaire designed to ensure open and responsible for setting the Companys CSR strategy and policies and for constructive feedback.
As part of this Board evaluation, each individual performance monitoring and reporting against identified Key Performance Directors performance was also reviewed.
Indicators, including those relating to Health and Safety, Environment, In line with the Combined Code, the Chairman holds meetings with the Customer Care, Supply Chain Management, Employees and the Community.
Non Executive Directors without any Executive Director present.
In addition, The Committee also highlights and reports on environmental, social and the Non Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Chairman governance issues and opportunities for the attention of the Board.
The present to discuss his performance.
2006 CSR Report entitled Building a Sustainable Future has been sent to all shareholders and many of our stakeholders, including suppliers, local Board Committees authorities, Governmental departments and regulatory bodies.
The report Nomination Committee is also made available to all employees of the Group via the intranet or in Current Members: John Robinson Committee Chair, Peter Redfern, David hard copy if preferred.
In addition, the Report can be found on the George Williams, Christine Cross, Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe.
The Companys Peter Johnson was a member of this Committee until 30 June 2006 when approach to CSR is also summarised on pages 30 to 31 of this Annual Report.
he stood down as a Director.
Peter Redfern became a member of this During the year the Committee met on four occasions and there was only Committee on 1 July 2006. one absence when Ian Sutcliffe was unable to attend a meeting in December Throughout the year and in line with the Combined Code, the Committee due to being engaged on other Company business.
has been made up of a majority of independent Non Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee The Committee meets as and when necessary to consider the appointment Current Members: David Williams Committee Chair, John Robinson of new Executive and Non Executive Directors.
The Committee adopts a Christine Cross, Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe.
rigorous process for the appointment of new directors, involving the use John Robinson was appointed to the Committee on 18 October 2006. of external recruitment consultants followed by meetings with both the Committee and subsequently with the Board as a whole and the Secretary.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies are set out in the This ensures that the selection process is formal, objective and based on merit.
Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50.
The Committee has formal terms of reference which can be found on the George Wimpey Plc website The Committee has formal terms of reference.
It meets as and when required, www.
for example with regard to proposed appointments to the Board and at least once a year to comprehensively review succession planning at both Board During the year the Committee met on six occasions.
There were no and senior management level across the Group.
absences by any member who was a member of the Committee as at the time of each meeting.
In line with the Combined Code, it also reviews the Board structure, size, composition and time commitments required from each Non Executive Relations with shareholders and investors Director and through this keeps under review the balance of membership During the year, the Company has continued to maintain an active investor and the blend of skills, knowledge and experience that is required.
relations programme, encouraging constructive two-way communication with investors, fund managers and analysts.
Presentations are given at the During the year, the Committee formally met on two occasions principally time of both preliminary and interim results and at the Annual General to consider Board changes and also to review succession planning.
The Company has a well established cycle of communication were no absences.
based on the Groups financial reporting calendar.
Video webcasts of results Audit Committee presentations along with the full question and answer sessions and audio Current Members: Anthony Reading Committee Chair, David Williams, webcasts of trading statement conference calls are made publicly available Brenda Dean and Robert Sharpe.
on the George Wimpey Plc website www.
All of the above were members of the Committee throughout the year.
During 2006, Non Executive Directors were present at both the Companys The Committee consists of four independent Non Executive Directors preliminary and interim results presentations where, in line with the including Anthony Reading and David Williams both of whom the Board Combined Code, they were available to meet with shareholders.
The Company is satisfied have recent and relevant financial experience, in line with makes full use of its website www.
co. uk to provide the Combined Code: Anthony Reading is a Chartered Accountant and has information for shareholders and others interested in George Wimpey as an substantial operational experience in the UK and the US: David Williams has investment opportunity.
Our registrars LloydsTSB have also developed substantial corporate and financial experience and was until 31 January 2006, www.
co. uk: an electronic service where shareholders can review Group Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, their shareholding, vote on resolutions and update their personal details.
Group Finance Director and senior management attend Committee During the year, the Group Chief Executive and other Executive Directors meetings for specific items at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
carried out an extensive programme of meetings with institutional The Committee routinely meets with  PwC, shareholders and investors throughout the year following guidance issued by the Companys auditors, without any operational management present.
Meetings were held in London, Edinburgh, The Committee has formal terms of reference which are available on Dublin, Paris, New York and Boston and the Company will consider other our website www.
It receives reports from PwC, visits as appropriate or requested.
The Company also hosted analyst events the Internal Audit Department and also from senior management at during the year.
42 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance WP100 p41-43 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:07 Page 43 Andrew Carr-Locke and the Group Treasurer held meetings across the Land purchase and investment appraisal US with investors in the Companys US Private Placement programme.
There are clearly defined policies and procedures for the purchase of land Presentations are made twice a year to the Companys UK bankers following and for capital expenditure.
These include detailed appraisal and review requirements and due diligence procedures which incorporate a detailed the announcement of the Companys preliminary and interim results.
environmental appraisal of land prior to acquisition.
These procedures are The Companys joint brokers, JP Morgan Cazenove and ABN Amro Hoare subject to rigorous review and authorisation.
Govett, attend Board meetings to provide feedback on the shareholder Development activity surveys that they each carry out following the publication of the Companys There is an established framework for managing and controlling all site results and subsequent meetings with shareholders.
This includes extensive health and safety procedures, regular The Company is pleased to welcome private and institutional shareholders performance monitoring and clear accountability on customer satisfaction.
to its Annual General Meeting which it regards as an important forum for the Operational and financial reporting Board to engage with shareholders.
The Chairman and the Group Chief There is a developed budgeting system with an annual budget approved by Executive use the Meeting as an opportunity to make presentations on the the Board.
Profit and cash forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a monthly business.
The Board will be present at the Meeting to answer questions and basis.
The performance of each business is reviewed monthly by Divisional will be available both prior to and after the Meeting for discussions with and Group management and subsequently reported to the Board against shareholders.
The result of the voting on each resolution will be declared at both budget and forecast.
Particular emphasis is placed on cash flow and the Meeting and will also be announced publicly afterwards in line with forecasting, as well as income statement and balance sheet reporting, and best practice and the recent changes made to the Combined Code.
on key operating issues including health and safety and environmental matters.
Accountability and audit Treasury The Board believes that the financial statements and reviews contained The principal treasury related risks, decisions and control processes are within this document present a balanced and understandable assessment documented.
The Treasury Committee, consisting of Andrew Carr-Locke of the Companys performance and prospects.
The sound system of internal Committee Chair and the Group Chief Executive, Group Treasurer and Head control within the Company enables the Board to make this statement.
of Tax, meets quarterly to consider treasury related issues, decisions and The Audit Committee has a firm policy of not using the Companys auditor control processes.
The Committee has terms of reference.
for non audit work if this could jeopardise the ability of the auditor to provide All of the above internal controls have been in place during the year and an independent and objective audit opinion.
However, in certain cases the are subject to ongoing review.
Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee, use of PwC for non audit work may make it more timely and cost effective the Executive Directors and senior management by independently and due to the firms knowledge of the Group.
Following a competitive tender objectively reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and the control process, which is designed to ensure the best provider is selected, PwC environment.
The Internal Audit methodology is aligned to the key elements currently carries out routine tax compliance work.
PwC also assists the of the Groups internal control framework.
All reviews are formally followed up Company with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Committee to ensure agreed actions have been implemented.
The results of all Internal takes the view that carrying out this non audit work does not affect Audit reviews are categorised according to the outcome of the review and PwCs objectivity or independence.
In addition, PwC is subject to its own are presented and discussed in detail at the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit professional standards which safeguards the integrity of the auditing role reviews are also discussed at Executive Committee meetings which take performed on behalf of shareholders.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in place generally on a weekly basis in addition to regular monthly meetings.
The Executive Committee consists of Peter Redfern Committee Chair, Andrew Carr-Locke, Steve Parker, Ian Sutcliffe and James Jordan.
Internal Internal control Audit reviews are also discussed at Divisional executive meetings of George The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control Wimpey UK and Morrison Homes.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility Going concern of the Executive Directors and senior management.
It is recognised that the The Directors are required under the Financial Services Authoritys Listing system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Rules and the Combined Code to have satisfied themselves as to the Groups risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Consequently, it can only provide ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
A review has been reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
carried out and the Directors have concluded that the Group has adequate The system has been in place throughout the period and is reviewed within resources and is justified in using the going concern basis in preparing the the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control on an annual basis.
The Board has reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the Group faces in its business and operations and the key risks that are identified are documented in the Group Risk Register.
The review includes a review of significant environmental, social and governance matters relevant to the business and operations of the Group.
The Group Risk Register is also monitored throughout the year for ongoing relevance by the Executive Committee.
Specific key operational risks and the procedures and policies that are in place around them that are reviewed include: land purchase, health and safety, environmental matters, financial and data control, IT systems, succession planning, corporate governance, national and local governmental matters and product quality.
The Board, following its review, is satisfied with the process in place for risk identification, evaluation and management.
It is satisfied with current control mechanisms and reporting lines that have been in place throughout the year and the programme of continuous improvement initiatives that has been implemented.
The Group seeks to maintain high standards of business conduct and operates under an established internal control framework which is described below.
Organisational structure The Group operates through a number of operating businesses, each with its own management board.
Clear reporting lines and delegated authorities are in place.
The management and monitoring of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the Group and the use of interactive review processes provides successive assurance through the levels of management up to the Board.
