Corporate governance In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, GKN Directors are regarded by the Board as independent and the Board does not is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions set consider that there exist any relationships or circumstances likely to affect out in Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the the judgement of any Director.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Code and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide the non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys an explanation.
GKN is also required to explain how it has applied the registered ofce and at the AGM.
principles set out in the Code.
The Board normally meets 11 times a year, including at least one meeting The following paragraphs, together with the Audit Committee report on at a Group operating company.
A 12 month rolling programme of items for page 52 and the report on Directors remuneration on pages 53 to 60, discussion by the Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved to provide a description of how the main and supporting principles of the the Board and other key issues are considered at appropriate times.
During Code have been applied within GKN during 2006.
The Directors statement the year there are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with of compliance with the Code is given on page 51. the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present should this be deemed appropriate.
The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Its role The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework proceedings and other claims against its Directors.
Details of indemnities of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and in place between the Company and the Directors can be found in the managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the Directors report on page 46. necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to Chairman and Chief Executive meet its objectives, and reviews management performance.
It also sets The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since 1997. the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the Company, to its shareholders including reporting to shareholders on the Boards the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board and ensuring stewardship and others are understood and met.
Specic responsibilities its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the reserved to the Board include: Companys business.
setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium-term The other significant current commitments of Roy Brown, Chairman, projections: are listed in his biography on page 44.
The Board is satisfied that reviewing operational and financial performance: his commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to GKN and, in particular, would not do so in the event of GKN being involved in approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: a major corporate transaction or other action.
reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk management: Information and professional development ensuring that appropriate management development and succession The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, plans are in place: timely and clear information.
The quality and supply of information provided to the Board was reviewed during the year as part of the performance reviewing the activities of the three sub-committees of the Executive evaluation exercise referred to below.
Committee: Comprehensive brieng papers are prepared and circulated to all Directors reviewing matters relating to corporate social responsibility, including one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
Directors are continually the environmental, health and safety performance of the Group: updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in which it operates and approving appointments to the Board, to the Executive Committee and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briengs to the position of Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
The Chairman arranges Directors remuneration and the severance of Directors contracts: and for the Board to visit at least one of the Groups business locations each year to enable the Directors to meet with local management and employees ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the The Directors responsibility for the preparation of accounts is explained Groups operations.
A number of Directors attended the Farnborough on page 47 their conrmation that they consider it appropriate to prepare Air Show held during the year.
the accounts for 2006 on a going concern basis is given on page 33.
On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack A description of the role of the Board, together with that of the Chairman, which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, details of Board meeting procedures, Directors responsibilities, procedures is available on GKNs website and further details of the Boards role in for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governance-related issues.
relation to the Groups systems of internal control and risk management This is supplemented by a brieng with the Company Secretary who is are given on pages 50 and 51.
Descriptions of the specic responsibilities charged with facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the Group which have been delegated to the principal Board Committees are given and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors.
The Director meets on pages 49 and 50. with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the general Group strategy and each individual business portfolio.
The Board currently comprises two executive and six non-executive Plant visits are organised as necessary for new Directors.
External training, Directors including the Chairman.
Biographical details of the Directors particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the role and are given on pages 44 and 45.
With the exception of the Chairman, who responsibilities of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
is presumed under the Code not to be independent, all the non-executive 48 GKN plc Annual Report 2006 Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be In its communications with shareholders, GKN aims to present a balanced identied in annual individual performance reviews or on an ad hoc basis.
and understandable assessment of the Group.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken Secretary.
Training and development of Directors in 2006 took various as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive forms, including visits to GKN plants both with the Board as a whole and Directors are encouraged to participate.
This includes presentations of the on an individual basis, attendance by certain Directors at external training full-year and interim results, and meetings between institutional investors seminars on matters relevant to members of remuneration committees, and both in the UK and overseas and the Chief Executive, Finance Director, workshops run by external bodies on commercial and regulatory matters.
Head of Investor Relations and members of the Executive Committee.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional shareholders, Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed on all other fund managers and the financial press are also held.
Feedback is legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
In addition, sought by the Companys brokers after meetings and presentations to Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent ensure that the Groups strategy and performance is being communicated professional advice at the Companys expense.
effectively and to further develop an understanding of shareholder views.
This feedback is included in twice-yearly reports to the Board on meetings Performance evaluation with existing and potential investors.
External brokers reports on GKN are During the year, the Board carried out a formal evaluation of its own circulated to all Directors and the Board is briefed periodically by external performance and that of its Committees.
The process involved each financial consultants on investor perceptions of GKN.
Director, as well as other attendees of Board Committee meetings, completing a detailed questionnaire covering issues such as Board and The Chairman offers major shareholders the opportunity to meet with Committee composition, Board remit and objectives, Committee terms him to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy.
Feedback of reference, Board processes, Director induction and training, corporate to the Board is provided by the Chairman on any issues raised with him.
governance, stakeholder engagement and specic Committee-related The Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with questions.
The results of the evaluation and recommendations for shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed through normal improvements were reported to the relevant Committees before the channels of communication.
Board as a whole agreed appropriate changes.
These included minor Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during amendments to the terms of reference of the Board, Audit Committee and the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings Remuneration Committee: a review of the existing induction programme have ended.
Details of the level of proxy votes received are advised for Directors: and changing the process for the consideration of to shareholders at the meeting and are published on GKNs website.
Written responses are given to letters or e-mail received from shareholders The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated at and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, copies of the one-to-one interviews with the Chairman.
To assist this process, a number annual and interim reports.
The investor relations section of GKNs website of assessment areas were identied in advance and used as a framework provides further detail about the Group, including share price information, for conducting the appraisal interviews.
In the case of Helmut Mamsch webcasts and presentations of annual and interim results, other presentations and Sir Christopher Meyer, who both completed their initial three-year made to the investment community, and copies of financial reports.
terms as non-executive Directors during the year, their evaluations provide the basis for the recommendation to shareholders set out in the notice of Board Committees meeting circular that they be re-elected at the forthcoming AGM.
Sir Ian The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are available Gibson, as Senior Independent Director, led the review by the non-executive upon request and on GKNs website.
Directors of the Chairmans performance, which took into account the views Executive Committee of the executive Directors.
Similarly, the views of the other Directors were The Executive Committee is tasked with leading, overseeing and directing taken into account by the Chairman in his review of the Chief Executives the activities of the Group, reviewing divisional and Group strategy plans performance.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of any of and deciding how the various risks facing the Group are to be managed.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and leading the Re-election of Directors implementation of business and operational processes across the Group.
The Companys articles of association require Directors to seek re-election It normally meets monthly.
by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, all Directors The Committee consists of the executive Directors and the Groups senior are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their executive team under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The current appointment by the Board.
Any non-executive Directors who have served membership of the Executive Committee is given on page 45. for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
Details of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at the 2007 AGM are given in The Executive Committee has three sub-committees consisting of members the notice of meeting circular.
of senior management: Relations with shareholders the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Kevin GKN is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has Smith, Chief Executive, is responsible for monitoring and reviewing key a well-established communication programme based on the Groups elements that contribute directly to operational performance and the financial reporting calendar.
This programme enables the Directors to improvement of business health.
It is assisted in this by three senior gain an understanding of the views and opinions of its shareholders.
executive councils covering people excellence, production excellence and business process excellence: Annual Report 2006 GKN plc 49 Corporate governance continued are available on GKNs website.
The Committee has access to such the Technology Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Martyn Vaughan, Chief Executive GKN OffHighway, is responsible for setting policy and information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the providing guidance and direction in relation to technologies employed across all business areas, and provides input to the Executive Committee appointment of external executive search consultants, where appropriate.
to contribute to the formulation of the Groups business strategy: and The Committee meets periodically when required and consists of the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of of the Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is dealing with the Company Secretary, Grey Denham, is responsible for monitoring the appointment of a successor as Chairman of the Board when the Senior and reviewing matters relating to governance and compliance, risk Independent Director chairs the Committee.
management and corporate social responsibility.
Directors attendance record Chairmans Committee The Chairmans Committee is a forum for the Chairman and Chief Executive The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2006 was to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive Directors on particular issues.
The Committee meets before each Board meeting and consists as follows: of the non-executive Directors together with the Chief Executive under Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee the chairmanship of the Chairman.
12 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 2 meetings Audit Committee Director The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and Roy Brown 12 2 audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and Sir Kevin Smith 12 2 risk management system.
The Committee meets at least four times a NigelStein 12 year and consists of all the independent non-executive Directors under Sir Ian Gibson 12 4 8 2 the chairmanship of John Sheldrick.
A report by the Committee on its HelmutMamsch 11482 activities is given on page 52.
Sir Christopher Meyer 11 4 8 2 John Sheldrick 11 4 7 2 Remuneration Committee Sir Peter Williams 11 3 7 2 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors and the Internal control Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration policy which is The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges approved annually by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining the its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk fees of the Chairman and the terms upon which the service of executive management and receives regular reports on such matters.
Directors is terminated having regard to a severance policy adopted by the The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups Board, and for monitoring the remuneration of senior managers just below ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual report has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for identifying, on Directors remuneration set out on pages 53 to 60. evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding The Committee has access to such information and advice both from how these are to be managed.
The Governance and Risk Sub-Committee within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems of the Executive Committee facilitates this process.
In addition to a formal necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of quarterly review of risk management by the Executive Committee, members executive Directors remuneration.
are expected to report to the Committee as necessary the occurrence of any material control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a The Committee meets periodically when required and consists of major commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been the independent non-executive Directors under the chairmanship identied.
Such matters are reported to the next Board meeting and or of Sir Peter Williams.
Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
Nominations Committee Continuing processes under the oversight of the Governance and Risk The Nominations Committee leads the process for identifying, and makes Sub-Committee are in place for all parts of the Group to assess the major recommendations to the Board on, candidates for appointment as Directors risks to which their operations are exposed and the way in which such of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to risks are monitored, managed and controlled.
The risks covered by these succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes processes include those relating to strategy, operational performance, recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Chairmans and finance including risk nancing and fraud, product engineering, business Nominations Committees and the composition and chairmanship of the reputation, human resources, health and safety, and the environment.
It keeps under review the structure, These processes are summarised in a risk map which is reviewed annually size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge by the Audit Committee.
A summary of those risks which could have a and experience and the independence of the non-executive Directors, and material impact on the future financial performance of the Group is given makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
on pages 33 to 35 of the business review.
The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the Nominations Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their Committee in making appointments to the various positions on the Board business risks and to report on whether there has been any material and as Company Secretary.
These procedures, under which the Committee breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is supplemented agrees a description of the role, experience and capabilities for a Director, 50 GKN plc Annual Report 2006 by an interim review conducted at the half year.
Companies also have to receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having confirm annually whether they have complied with statutory and regulatory approved the operating policies and controls for this function: obligations as well as with internal policies on matters such as competition performing at least annually a review of the Groups pension fund law, employment, ethics, document management, data protection and arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes: employee disclosure.
Risk proling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify accidental risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
receiving an annual report, following its review by the Executive Committee, on corporate social responsibility matters, which includes As part of GKNs approach to continuous improvement, actions were the environmental, health and safety performance of the Groups undertaken during 2006 to enhance the Groups internal control review operations: and process.
Existing risk proling tools have been enhanced to establish a common and complete set of risk denitions as well as a common approach reviewing an annual management development and succession plan.
to probability and impact, and to strengthen the ability to consolidate The Executive Committee also reviews management development issues measurement of risk.
These tools are being deployed across the Group at least annually.
during 2007 as part of an enterprise risk management programme.
The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee concerning The objective of the Groups risk management processes is to ensure the the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
sustainable development of GKN through the conduct of its business in a This report, together with the reviews by the Board during the year of the way which: matters described above, enables the Board to form its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
satisfies its customers: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control develops environmentally friendly products and processes: processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee during 2006 provides a safe and healthy workplace: to discharge this responsibility are described in the Audit Committees report on page 52.
To assist it in this role the Committee liaises closely protects against losses from unforeseen causes: with the internal audit department, the Head of which reported directly to minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources: the Chief Executive throughout 2006.
The department utilises a risk-based internal audit programme and its purpose is to review and test the systems, prevents pollution and waste: controls, processes, procedures and practices across the Group.
The maintains proper relationships with our suppliers and contractors: and departments reports are seen by the relevant members of the Executive Committee.
The resolution of any control issues raised by Board members maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which it does or in reports reviewed by the Audit Committee are discussed in Committee business.
The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure internal control and risk management during the period covered by this to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such annual report.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not with the guidance on internal control appended to the Code the revised absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to The review process the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms that no The Board reviews the Groups systems of internal control and risk significant failings or weaknesses were identied in relation to the review.
management on an ongoing basis by: Compliance with the Code setting the strategy of the business at both Group and divisional level It is the Boards view that, throughout 2006, GKN was in compliance with and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget and the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Central to this exercise is a review of the been encouraged to adopt early the new requirements introduced by the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps being June 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which will apply to taken to manage these: GKN for the first time in the 2007 reporting year.
GKN is also in compliance with these new requirements.
reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to optimise operational and financial performance: retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure, major contracts and nancing arrangements.
Below Board level there are clearly dened management authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, major contracts, acquisitions, investments and divestments, together with an established framework for their appraisal, which includes a risk analysis and post-implementation plan, and where appropriate, a post-acquisition review: Annual Report 2006 GKN plc 51
