Audit Committee report reasons to do so.
Any proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit Role of the Committee work must be submitted to the Finance Director who will, depending on The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit the Audit Committee for approval prior to their appointment.
processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system.
In pursuing these objectives, the Committee ensures In accordance with its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved that an appropriate relationship is maintained between GKN and the the external auditors plans for the audit of the Groups 2006 financial external auditors, considers the effectiveness of the external audit process statements.
In approving the terms of engagement for the audit, the and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Committee considered the proposed audit fee and associated expenses.
It reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function During the year the Committee performed its annual review of the and is responsible for approving the appointment of the head of that effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process was based primarily function.
The Committee reviews the Groups systems of internal control on a format devised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
and conducted by means of formal interviews with a number of Directors In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access and senior management across the Group and the external audit to the services of the internal audit function and to the external auditors, engagement partner.
The Committee also reviewed a formal letter provided and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Both the by the external auditors conrming their independence and objectivity Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
standards and received conrmation of compliance with the policy on the employment of former employees of the external auditors.
In addition, The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority a new audit engagement partner was appointed during the year in and responsibilities.
These are considered annually by the Audit Committee accordance with professional standards on the rotation of key audit staff.
and any proposed changes are referred to the Board for approval.
The Committees current terms of reference are available upon request and Internal audit and monitoring of control issues on GKNs website.
At its meetings during 2006 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the Membership adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the The Audit Committee presently comprises John Sheldrick Chairman, Sir Ian implementation of recommendations made by the function.
It also reviewed Gibson, Helmut Mamsch, Sir Christopher Meyer and Sir Peter Williams, all and approved the internal audit plan for the coming year and the level of of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
Their biographical details resources allocated to the internal audit function.
The effectiveness of the are set out on pages 44 and 45.
There were no changes to the membership internal audit function was reviewed based primarily on guidelines issued of the Committee during 2006.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Feedback was obtained from a number the Committee.
of Directors and senior management across the Group by means of formal Report on the Committees activities in 2006 interview.
In addition, an independent review of the function by Ernst & Meetings and attendance Young was completed during the year.
The Committee met on four occasions in 2006 timed to coincide with the The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance at level signicance, including details of any remedial action being taken.
the meetings held during the year is set out in the table on page 50.
It considered reports from the internal audit function and the external The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Internal auditors on the Groups systems of internal control and reported to Audit, the engagement partner of the external auditors and other members the Board on the results of its review.
The Committee also examined of the management team attended meetings by invitation.
At each meeting a post-acquisition report on the integration and performance of a there was an opportunity for the external auditors, and annually an significant recent acquisition.
opportunity for the Head of Internal Audit, to discuss matters with the Whistleblowing Committee without any executive management being present.
In addition, GKN operates an international whistleblowing hotline which is run by an the members of the Committee met separately at the start of each meeting external and independent third party.
Launched during the year as part of to discuss matters in the absence of any persons attending by invitation.
the revised Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy, the hotline facilitates Financial reporting the arrangements whereby employees can make on an anonymous basis During 2006 the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting if preferred condential disclosures about suspected impropriety and and related matters including the interim and annual financial statements wrongdoing.
Any matters so reported are investigated and escalated prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Committee significant areas of judgement that materially impacted reported results.
also reviewed the Groups trading update announcements prior to release.
On behalf of the Committee External auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, regulate the appointment of former employees of the external John Sheldrick audit rm to positions in the Group and set out the approach to be taken Chairman of the Audit Committee when using the external auditors for non-audit work.
As a general principle the external auditors are excluded from consultancy work and cannot be 26 February 2007 engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there are compelling 52 GKN plc Annual Report 2006
