Corporate governance This section discusses GlaxoSmithKlines management structures and governance procedures.
It contains the companys reporting disclosures on corporate governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code, including the required statement of compliance.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the US laws and regulations that apply to it.
The Board 54 Corporate Executive Team 55 Governance and policy 56 Dialogue with shareholders 58 Annual General Meeting 59 Internal control framework 59 Committee reports 60 The Combined Code 62 US law and regulation 63 GSK Annual Report 2006 53 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Dr Daniel Podolsky Aged 53 The Board Appointed on 1st July 2006.
Dr Podolsky is Sir Christopher Gent Aged 58 Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Christopher was the Chief Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School as well Executive officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement in July as Chief Academic officer of Partners HealthCare System.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, editor-in-chief of the journal Gastroenterology, Past President of the a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari S. p. A. a member of KPMGs American Gastroenterological Association and Chairman of the Board Chairmans Advisory Group, a member of the Financial Reporting and scientific Co-Founder of the GI Company.
Council, a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. and a member of the advisory Sir Ian Prosser Aged 63 board of Reform.
Sir Ian Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 59 was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Dr Garnier was Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass plc and ultimately was appointed an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in Chairman of the demerged InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
He 1992, and became Chief Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a Nonwas Chairman of the World Travel and Tourism Council and the Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation and a member London Stock Exchange Listed Advisory Council.
He is Non-Executive of the Board of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
He Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee holds a PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in Corporation and a member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 68 Dr Stephanie Burns Aged 52 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Schmitz Appointed on 12th February 2007.
Dr Burns was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is is Chairman, President and Chief Executive officer of Dow Corning a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc, a member of Corporation.
She is also a member of the American Chemical Society the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot and sits on the Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical Corporation and a member of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG.
Industry, America Section, serves on the American Chemistry Council, Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 47 on the Board of Directors for the Society for Womens Health Research Appointed on 17th May 2006.
and on the Board of Trustees of The Conference Board.
Dr Burns holds Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the a PhD in organic chemistry from Iowa State University.
development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He has a PhD in Molecular Lawrence Culp Aged 43 Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
Mr Culp is Tom fide Swaan Aged 60 President and Chief Executive officer of Danaher Corporation.
Mr fide Swaan to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously was a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial officer of Andersen Consulting.
He was a Non-Executive Director Sir Crispin Davis Aged 57 of the Financial Services Authority.
He is a member of the Board of Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Sir Crispin is Directors of Zurich Financial Services in Switzerland and a member of Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM and Buhrmann in the Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, Netherlands.
He is Chairman of the Board of the Netherlands Opera where he was a member of the main board and Group Managing and a member of the Board of the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra.
He spent his early career with Procter & Sir Robert Wilson Aged 63 Gamble.
Sir Robert Julian Heslop Aged 53 is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and The Economist Group Appointed on 1st April 2005.
Mr Heslop joined and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
In January 2001, Other Directors following the merger, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Dr Lucy Shapiro, formerly Non-Executive Director, retired from the Operations Controller.
Prior to joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior Board on 17th May 2006.
Dr Tachi Yamada, formerly Chairman, finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC.
Research & Development, retired from the Board on 31st May 2006.
Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 59 Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
He was formerly Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group plc and BlackRock Inc. as well as serving on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center and NYU Medical Center.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
GSK Annual Report 2006 54 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Bill Louv Corporate Executive Team CET Chief Information officer JP Garnier Mr Louv succeeded Dr Calhoun as Chief Information officer on 31st Chief Executive officer January 2007.
He is responsible for information technology, a global As Chief Executive officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the function that enables key business processes across all parts of the management of the Group.
He oversees all operational aspects of Group.
He joined the company in 1994 and has held a number of the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, increasingly senior roles in IT, including for US Pharmaceuticals and and he directs long-term strategy.
He was formerly Chief Executive GSKs R&D functions.
officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
Dan Phelan Rupert Bondy Senior Vice President, Human Resources Senior Vice President and General Counsel Mr Phelan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together organisation development, leadership development and succession with environmental, health and safety issues and security.
He was a planning, human resource information systems and employee health lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995. management.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining Smith Kline & French in 1981.
John Clarke President, Consumer Healthcare David Pulman Mr Clarke is responsible for the Consumer Healthcare business which President, Global Manufacturing and Supply produces oral, over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products.
Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply He joined Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Futures Organisation and Global Procurement.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and Group before his current appointment in January 2006. was responsible for the North American supply network, manufacturing strategy and logistics until his current appointment in Marc Dunoyer 2002.
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March Moncef Slaoui 2003.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and Chairman, Research & Development Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment.
Dr Slaoui leads the Groups complex drug discovery and development activities.
He joined the Group in 1988 and was Senior Vice President, Russell Greig Worldwide Business Development until his current appointment in President, Pharmaceuticals International June 2006.
Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA, Japan and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined the David Stout Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business President, Pharmaceutical Operations Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in March Mr Stout is responsible for all pharmaceuticals and vaccines operations 2003. worldwide, including the USA, Europe, International, Japan and Global Manufacturing and Supply.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in Julian Heslop 1996 and was President, US Pharmaceuticals, until his current Chief Financial officer appointment in January 2003.
Mr Heslop became Chief Financial officer on 1st April 2005.
As head of the finance function Mr Heslop is responsible for activities such as Chris Viehbacher financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, finance systems, President, US Pharmaceuticals internal audit, insurance and real estate.
He joined Glaxo Wellcome Mr Viehbacher is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals.
He joined as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSKs European Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointment in 2003.
Duncan Learmouth Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and Andrew Witty Community Partnerships President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Mr Learmouth is responsible for the Groups investor relations, internal Mr Witty is responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals operations in and external communications, its image and partnerships with global Europe.
He joined Glaxo in 1985 and was Senior Vice President, Asia communities.
He joined Glaxo in 1991 and was Vice President, Global Pacic until his current appointment in 2003.
Investor Relations, before appointment to his current position in July Other members 2006.
Mr Ziegler retired as head of the Consumer Healthcare business on 31st January 2006.
Mrs Younger left the Group in June 2006 and Dr Calhoun retired as Chief Information officer on 31st January 2007.
Mr Ingram continues to act as a special consultant to the Group and attends CET meetings in that capacity.
GSK Annual Report 2006 55 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Sir Ian Prosser was appointed Senior Independent Director SID on 1st Governance and policy January 2005 and held this role throughout 2006.
The Board and Corporate Executive Team Board process The Directors are listed under The Board on page 54.
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves the governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, strategic objectives it sets.
The Board discharges those responsibilities strategy and financial performance.
through an annual programme of meetings which includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business strategy.
The The Chief Executive officer CEO is responsible for executive Board reviews the companys internal controls and risk management management of the Group and is assisted by the CET.
The CET meets policies and approves its governance structure and code of ethics.
11 times per year and otherwise as necessary.
The members and their responsibilities are listed under Corporate Executive Team The Board appraises and approves major nancing, investment and page 55. licensing decisions in excess of dened thresholds.
In addition, the Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a The Board comprises three Executive and ten Non-Executive Directors.
This includes: The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Dr Schmitz has served on the Board for engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive more than nine years, having been appointed to the Board of Glaxo Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the financial Wellcome plc on 1st January 1997.
During consideration of the and operating performance of GSK and external issues material to Annual Review of Board effectiveness at its meeting in December the Groups prospects 2006, the Board concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent, evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Groups financial notwithstanding his length of service.
In the opinion of the Board, and business objectives and annual plans Dr Schmitz continued to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such as objectively challenging management and monitoring, through reports received directly or from various taking part in rigorous debate, while at the same time possessing an committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
outstanding knowledge of the companys business and affairs, The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the together with his experience gained as Chairman of the Audit CEO and the other Executive Directors.
The Board has given the CEO Committee.
In a long cycle investment business, such as GSK, it was broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO considered to be particularly important to have experienced members is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, business performance.
When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board to be CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas independent.
Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on 1st of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET members on January 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was an annual basis to discuss collectively the Groups strategy.
excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Christopher Gent did Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-Executive not hold a position on a Board Committee where independence was Directors are encouraged to have separate informal discussions at required under the Combined Code.
He has however been appointed their discretion with any CET members.
a member of the Remuneration Committee effective 1st January 2007 following the recent change to the Combined Code.
The Board met six times in 2006, with each member attending as follows: The Board considers that Dr Burns, Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz, Mr fide Number of meetings Number of Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 Dr JP Garnier 6 6 At the date of publication and throughout 2006, a majority of the Mr J Heslop 6 6 Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent NonDr M Slaoui 4 4 Executive Directors.
Dr Shapiro, who left the Board on 17th May 2006 Mr L Culp 6 5 was not considered to be independent due to the remuneration that Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 she received from the Group as a member of the GlaxoSmithKline Sir Deryck Maughan 6 4 scientific Advisory Board.
Dr D Podolsky 3 3 Sir Christopher Gent succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg on 1st January Sir Ian Prosser 6 5 2005 and chaired the company throughout 2006.
Dr Garnier is the Dr R Schmitz 66 CEO.
The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to the Mr T fide Swaan 6 5 CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board meetings.
Sir Robert Wilson 66 The CEO manages the Group and implements the strategy and Dr T Yamada 3 3 policies adopted by the Board.
The Chairman and the chairmen of Dr L Shapiro 3 3 Board Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a CET members.
The division of responsibilities between the role of quorate basis on three occasions.
Chairman and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the Board and appears in full on the companys website.
GSK Annual Report 2006 56 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Business environment development Audit Committee To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters, The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting including legal, governance and regulatory developments, process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks and presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes internal advisers.
to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Independent advice The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more Directors.
It meets at least four times a year and otherwise as of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or necessary.
The Audit Committee Report is on pages 60 to 62. financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
This is explained in the Corporate Remuneration Committee Governance section of the companys website.
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET indemnification of Directors and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in section and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive 309B 1 of the Companies Act 1985 are in force for the benefit of remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of independent the Directors and former Directors who held ofce during 2006.
Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman, in accordance Company Secretary with the Combined Code.
It meets at least four times a year and The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to otherwise as necessary.
Information on the remuneration of Directors individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82.
Secretary is Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May 2000.
He is a The Chairman of the company and the CEO are responsible for barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is secretary to all the Board evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the Committees.
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Board Committees Nominations Committee The Board has established a number of Committees and provides The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
composition of the Board and the appointment of members to the Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as Nominations or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of succession may be invited to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member of the to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee consists Corporate Administration &Transactions and Financial Results entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are Committees.
Membership of these Committees is shown in the table independent, and meets at least once a year and otherwise as below.
The Nominations Committee Report is given on page 62.
Corporate Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of NonSir Christopher Gent MC C Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular Dr Burns review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact Mr L Culp M upon the Groups business and reputation and for the oversight of Sir Crispin Davis M reputation and the views of external stakeholders.
The Committee is Sir Deryck Maughan M also responsible for governance oversight of the Groups worldwide Dr D Podolsky M M donations and community support.
The Committee meets formally Sir Ian Prosser M M M three times a year and otherwise as necessary.
Dr R Schmitz M MM Mr T fide Swaan C M Financial Results Committee Sir Robert Wilson M C The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of Mr fide Swaan succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the Audit Committee from the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and September 2006. the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with the Key: C Chairman.
preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Director The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is any Committee.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee three members.
To be quorate, each meeting must include the may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Governance Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or section of the companys website.
the Chief Financial officer CFO.
The Committee meets as necessary.
GSK Annual Report 2006 57 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee The Groups Investor Relations department, with ofces in London The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors approves matters in connection with the administration of the Groups throughout the year.
business, and certain corporate transactions.
The Committee consists The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear their of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
The views and discuss issues of mutual importance.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets annually with Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Directors during 2006 was undertaken by the SID and implemented All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen, with the support of to meet with major shareholders if requested.
The Board considered the review conclusions The companys website provides access to current financial and at its meeting in December 2006 and agreed a number of minor business information about the Group.
improvements to its procedures and operating methodology.
Share buy-back programme An external consultant was appointed to assist in the evaluation of The company has repurchased 7.8 billion of its own shares for the Audit Committee.
cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which 1.3 billion was spent in 2006.
In October 2006, a programme totalling 6 billion Dialogue with shareholders of share repurchases over three years commenced.
It is expected that Financial results are announced quarterly.
2 billion worth of shares will be brought back in the first 12 months.
These programmes cover purchases by the company of shares for The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the half-year and full-year results are announced.
The full-year results are authority renewed by shareholders at the companys AGM in 2006. included in the companys Annual Report and Annual Review, which are published for shareholders.
The companys half-year results are In May 2006, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum published in a national newspaper shortly after release.
The CEO, CFO of 582 million shares.
During 2006, 92.6 million shares, representing and President, Pharmaceutical Operations give presentations on the 1.7% of the issued share capital, were purchased and held as Treasury full-year results to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
shares see Note 31 to the financial statements, Share capital and share premium account.
There are webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to media.
The Annual Report, Annual Review and quarterly results are which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather than available on the companys website.
being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place in London, and formal notication is sent to shareholders at least one month in Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political advance.
At the Meeting, a business presentation is made to Expenditure shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company during the AGM, and informally afterwards, for questions.
Committee to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to incur EU Chairmen ordinarily attend the AGM to respond to shareholders Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, questions.
The entire Board was in attendance at the companys AGM Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll as This authority has since been renewed annually.
Although the required by the companys Articles of Association.
The results of the company does not make and does not intend to make such payments poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on or donations to EU political parties, within the normal meaning of the companys website.
Details of the 2007 AGM are set out in the that expression, the denition in the legislation of EU Political section Annual General Meeting see page 59.
It may extend to bodies, which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support including those concerned To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business understand the views of major shareholders about the company, the community and special interest groups, such as those concerned with Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specic issues, as well the environment.
No donations were made to EU Political as general shareholder preferences.
At its meeting in September, the Organisations during 2006.
The Group made donations to non-EU Board received an external review of shareholder opinion.
Political Organisations totalling 319,000 during 2006 320,000 in The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders 2005. on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
GSK Annual Report 2006 58 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Donations of 290,000 301,000 in 2005 were made in the USA, Special business 27,000 19,000 in 2005 in Canada and 2,000 in Australia.
The The company will seek authority to: USA is the largest recipient of political donations, and this reects the make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur EU Political US political system, where candidates are sponsored solely by Expenditure donations from individuals, NGOs, companies and other parties.
allot Ordinary Shares in the company In line with US law, the corporate donations by GSK are not made at a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights when and local levels.
Donations are accepted practice in the USA, and as allotting new Shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise a major employer in a heavily regulated industry, it is important for up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and GSK to engage fully in the political process.
Donations are one of the purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under ways of doing this.
GSK supports those candidates who seek an 10% of the current issued share capital.
environment that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment amend the companys Articles of Association to enable electronic industries and who believe in free market principles and intellectual communication with shareholders, in accordance with the new property rights.
The situation is similar in Canada, and donations follow the same guidelines.
In the rest of the world donations are very rare and of low Internal control framework value.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and There is also a GSK Political Action Committee PAC in the USA which understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
PACs are employee organisations which The structure of accountability and audit operated in GSK is as follows.
allow employees to contribute to a fund for political donations.
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC donations.
In 2006, and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including a total of 735,600 282,000 in 2005 was donated to political financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
organisations by the GSK PAC.
The Board has delegated responsibility for such review to the Audit Committee, which receives reports from those individuals identied in Annual General Meeting the Committees Report on pages 60 to 62.
It is the responsibility of The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 23rd May 2007 at management, through the CET, to implement Board policies on risk The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, and control.
The CET is responsible for identifying, approving, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted at the monitoring and enforcing key policies that go to the heart of how the meeting will include: Group conducts business.
The internal control framework includes central direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2006 Annual activities of research and development, manufacturing, marketing and Report sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial Approving the 2006 Remuneration Report practice.
As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning The Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82 sets out the system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures operating units are reported monthly and compared to the budget.
on Directors remuneration, including those required by the Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
Companies Act 1985 and the Directors Remuneration Report Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises and Regulations 2002.
A resolution will be proposed to approve the risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
and financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local Retirement, election and re-election of Directors business units, supported by a regional management structure.
These Dr Podolsky and Dr Burns have been appointed Directors since the principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership 2006 AGM and will offer themselves for election to the Board.
Mr coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the Heslop, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Schmitz and Sir Robert Wilson will exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
each retire and offer themselves for re-election to the Board under The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and procedures article 93 of the companys Articles of Association.
designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control.
A Group Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, mandates that Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint  business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine significant to their businesses and the Group.
The internal control framework also relies on the following for overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
GSK Annual Report 2006 59 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC Areas of potentially significant risk The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk factors on pages 44 to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and to 47 and Note 43 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises several Effectiveness of controls CET members and some of the heads of departments with internal The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole control, risk management, audit and compliance responsibilities.
of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant approval of this report.
The system of internal controls is designed to risks and their mitigation plans.
The ROCC, responding to the Group manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business policy referred to above, has provided the business units with a objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute framework for risk management and upward reporting of significant assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Mitigation planning and identication of a manager with overall The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually to the Board Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs have been on the effectiveness of controls.
Such controls may mitigate but established in each of the major business units.
Membership often cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, there are areas of the Groups comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate.
The RMCBs return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D and in acquiring oversee management of all risks that are considered important for their new products or businesses.
In these cases, it is the Groups objective respective business units, including those risks that are designated as to apply its expertise in the prudent management rather than significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number elimination of risk.
The Directors review relates to the company and of risks that are actively managed across the Group.
its subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other investments.
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant risks to the ROCC.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates Compliance functions in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system In a number of risk areas, specic standards that meet or exceed of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by requirements of applicable law have been established.
Specialist audit this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
The process and compliance functions for example: Corporate Environment, followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide Regulatory accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Compliance assist in the dissemination, implementation and audit Committee in 1999. of these standards.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC Committee reports The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance Audit Committee Report department which is responsible for supporting the development and The Audit Committees role ows directly from the Boards oversight implementation of practices that facilitate employees compliance function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity with laws and Group policy.
within its terms of reference.
The Committee has written terms of The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in reference which have been approved by the Board.
The Committee preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with law reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities it or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws has been assigned.
The Committees main responsibilities include and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and effective reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process, compliance systems.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, evaluating the system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance officer, who activities of each of the Groups compliance audit functions and reports directly to the CEO.
The Corporate Compliance officer chairs overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs activities and practice.
The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly the Groups significant risks to the CET and the Audit Committee on the relationships between management and the internal and external a regular basis.
The Corporate Compliance Ofcers direct reporting auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the tiers of accountability between them.
executive management should the need ever arise.
GSK Annual Report 2006 60 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET In 2006, the Committee worked to a structured programme of and senior managers covering the key compliance activities of the activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, sales and consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to marketing and EHS.
coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting accounting policies and practices used by the company, alternative experience to the Committees work.
Members have past accounting treatments which had been discussed with employment experience in either finance or accounting roles or management and the resultant conclusion by the external auditors, comparable experience in corporate activities.
material written communications with management and any Dr Schmitz was the Chairman of the Committee from April 2001 until restrictions on access to information September 2006.
Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive Director the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company of the company, he was a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome and on technical financial and accounting matters plc, where he served on the Audit Committee.
Dr Schmitz has also been a member of the Executive Board of Directors of Deutsche Bank the General Counsel reported on material litigation AG.
He retired from that Board in 2000 having been in charge of the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance investment banking.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a member of the the Heads of each of the Groups compliance and audit groups Executive Board of Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990, including reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources and CFO from 1985 to 1990.
He holds an MBA from Insead.
on the results of audits conducted throughout the year Mr fide Swaan joined the Board and the Committee with effect from the Corporate Compliance officer reported on the activities 1st January 2006.
He succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the undertaken by the ROCC Committee with effect from September 2006.
When appointing Mr the Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, fide Swaan to the Committee, the Board determined that he had recent reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure and relevant financial experience, in accordance with the Combined of financial and other material information to the Board, to the Code.
In coming to this conclusion, the Board paid particular attention public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Committee to to Mr fide Swaans role as Chief Financial officer of ABN AMRO, from review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the which he retired on 31st December 2005.
The Board also considers published annual financial statements, interim reports, quarterly Mr fide Swaan to be an Audit Committee Financial Expert as dened and preliminary results announcements and other formal by Sarbanes-Oxley.
announcements relating to financial performance prior to their Sir Deryck Maughan is a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis release by the Board.
Roberts & Co KKR and Chairman of KKR Asia.
He was Chairman and The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the full CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc. Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys corporate Prior to the creation of Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee serves as the Executive officer of Salomon Smith Barney.
He was also Chairman and primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors.
Chief Executive officer of Salomon Brothers Inc.
This facilitates the necessary independence from management and Sir Ian Prosser was CFO and later CEO of Bass plc and is a member of encourages the external and internal auditors to communicate freely the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
and regularly with the Committee.
In 2006, the Committee met both collectively and separately with the external auditors and the Head of Sir Robert Wilson began his professional career as an economist.
He GIA, without members of management being present.
is Chairman of BG Group plc.
He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman, The Committee has primary responsibility for making a from which he retired in 2003. recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment Dr Daniel Podolsky was appointed to the Committee with effect from and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the 1st January 2007.
He is a world-renowned researcher who has qualications, expertise, resources and independence of the external advanced knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease and new auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
His background will enable him to bring scientific expertise to the Committees deliberations.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends the Committees meetings, and it has available to it financial resources to take independent professional advice when considered necessary.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global Internal Audit GIA, Corporate Compliance officer and the external auditors.
GSK Annual Report 2006 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external auditors Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance taking account of their different backgrounds.
This process includes with the requirements.
Where the external auditors provide non-audit meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and visiting services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and particular operational facilities of the Group.
independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval The Committee continued to keep under review the succession by the Audit Committee for such services.
These services may include planning for senior executive positions, including that of the CEO.
audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
During 2006, the Committee agreed the process for selecting Dr Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of Garniers successor as CEO of GSK.
services, and is subject to a specic budget.
The external auditors and management report regularly to the Committee regarding the extent When appointing new Executive Directors, and CET members, the of services provided in accordance with this pre-approval and the fees Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience required for the services performed.
The Committee may also pre-approve for the particular executive position.
The Committee will consider additional services on a case-by-case basis.
Expenditure on audit and potential external and internal candidates before recommending to non-audit services is set out on in Note 7 to the financial statements the Board to approve the new appointment.
All new Directors offer Operating profit.
themselves for election at the companys next AGM.
Their appointments are announced publicly.
The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining The Committee recommended the appointment of Dr Podolsky to the that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a Corporate Responsibility Committee with effect from June 2006 and suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards are then to the Audit Committee with effect from 1st January 2007.
The in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not Committee also recommended the appointment of Sir Christopher compromised: and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are Gent to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1st January within the limits set by the Committee.
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of The Committee met four times during 2006 in full session.
All Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for the members were present at the full meetings.
reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to the Remuneration Report Code were made in 2006.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 65 to 82.
The Committee met in full session five times in 2006 and five times Corporate Responsibility Committee Report on a quorate basis.
Each full session was attended by all members During the year the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed except Mr fide Swaan and Sir Deryck Maughan who were each unable GSKs activity in a number of responsibility areas including access to to attend one meeting.
medicines, community partnerships, reputation management, caring Nominations Committee Report for the environment, ethical conduct, Direct To Consumer DTC The Nominations Committees terms of reference include responsibility advertising and GSKs commercial practices codes.
for proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
Membership of the Committee changed during the year.
Following During 2006, the Committee made recommendations to the Board Dr. Shapiros retirement from the Board in May 2006, Tom fide Swaan on the appointment of Dr Podolsky as a Non-Executive Director and and Dr. Daniel Podolsky joined the Committee.
The Committee met five times during 2006.
Each meeting was In February 2006, the Committee recommended to the Board that Dr attended by all Committee members except Sir Ian Prosser who was Moncef Slaoui, would succeed Dr Yamada as Chairman, Research & unable to attend one meeting, and Dr. Shapiro who was unable to Development, on his retirement from the company on 31st May 2006. attend two meetings.
In February 2007, the Committee with the Boards approval, GSKs Corporate Responsibility Report can be accessed on appointed Dr Stephanie Burns as a Non-Executive Director.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit The Combined Code the Board most signicantly for each appointment.
Broad selection Throughout 2006, the company complied with the Code provisions criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between the of the Combined Code, except as follows: representation of European, UK and US markets, and having individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various sectors B.
1.1 In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, and specialities.
During 2006, particular focus was placed upon the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in recruiting a Non-Executive with scientific and medical expertise.
Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general, Professional search agencies are engaged specialising in the only basic salary should be pensionable.
The companys position is recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82. potential Non-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee and candidates are short-listed for interview after considering their relevant qualications.
GSK Annual Report 2006 62 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports US law and regulation Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: because the companys shares are quoted on the New York Stock they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements or NYSE rules omissions In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the is on the companys website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the require the company to le annual and interim written afrmations dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and concerning the Audit Committee and the companys statement on Form 20-F significant differences in corporate governance.
they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 controls and procedures that ensure that material information is Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA, made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley.
controls and procedures as at the year end, the results of such Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide ranging piece of legislation concerned largely evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F with financial reporting and corporate governance.
they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance GSK has established a Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit Committee.
It is chaired by the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers generally accepted accounting principles from finance, legal, compliance, corporate communications and they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any investor relations.
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for considering the materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the companys internal control over financial reporting disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for the timely ling they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and and Form 20-F.
In 2006, the Committee met 14 times.
the Audit Committee all significant deficiencies and material Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over as to whether a member of the companys Audit Committee is an financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely audit committee financial expert.
For an explanation and details of the the companys ability to record, process, summarise and report basis for the Boards judgement on this matter, refer to page 61. financial information and any fraud regardless of materiality Additional disclosure requirements arise under Section 302 and involving persons that have a significant role in the companys Section 404 in respect of disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting.
internal control over financial reporting.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Groups management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2006.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certications and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures on 2nd March 2007, following which the certicates will be led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. GSK Annual Report 2006 63 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Section 404: Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of SarbanesOxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as dened in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS, including the reconciliations required under US GAAP.
Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during 2006 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2006, and its conclusion will be led with the Groups Form 20-F.  LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2006, has also audited managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
2 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Their audit report will be led with the Groups Form 20-F. GSK Annual Report 2006 64 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
