CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance structure Newly-appointed directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company, the board The board and the relevant policies and procedures.
This takes the form of The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an meetings with other board members and the provision of an appropriate range of skills and experience among its members, and induction pack containing relevant information.
that the objectivity and integrity of members should be exemplary.
The board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, five other Performance evaluation non-executive directors and five executive directors.
The directors The board has in place a process for the regular performance biographies are on page 18. evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors.
Just after the year end a questionnaire was distributed to all board There have been a number of changes during the year.
John Brady members, covering a wide range of matters including board joined as a non-executive director on 24 June 2005, Justin Adams as structure and composition, board processes, communications with managing director of the brewing division on 5 September 2005 and shareholders and corporate governance matters.
The responses to Ian Bull as finance director on 9 January 2006, the latter replacing the questionnaires were then discussed with the directors by the Michael Shallow, who left on 31 December 2005. chairman and the chief executive.
The results of the evaluation process have been reported to the board and a number of matters All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first will be addressed during the course of this year.
The board is annual general meeting after their appointment to the board and to satisfied that it and its committees are operating effectively.
re-election by shareholders every three years thereafter.
In addition, any non-executive director who has served more than nine years is The performance of Tim Bridge, chairman, was also reviewed just subject to annual re-election.
after the end of the financial year.
The process was conducted by the non-executive directors, led by Howard Phillips, the senior nonThe division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive director, taking into account the views of the executive executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed directors.
The performance of the executive directors is reviewed by the board.
The job descriptions are available on request.
The annually by the remuneration committee in conjunction with their chairman has primary responsibility for running the board and annual pay review and the payment of bonuses.
devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties.
The chief executive has responsibility for executing the Independence of non-executive directors company's strategy and achieving operational and financial goals.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its examined and fully discussed.
Their independence and objectivity decision, including approval of the long term objectives and strategy, are of paramount importance.
The board believes that they all have a approval of budgets and financial statements including the report range of skills and experience which will help the company and that and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of their understanding of the company, its strategy and operations the group and overall corporate governance issues.
It reviews increases over the years.
trading performance and considers major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Management is delegated the task of the The board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were detailed planning and implementation of the company's strategy.
independent throughout the year, being free from any relationship with the executive management which could result in any conflict or Information and training affect their independent judgment, and that they all remained Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to independent in character and judgment.
Alan Bowkett, who has properly discharge its functions.
All directors have access to the served as a non-executive director since 1993, will be retiring at the advice and services of the company secretary and are provided with forthcoming AGM and we will be looking for a new non-executive the opportunity to question management as required.
Explanations director to replace him.
of issues and legislative changes affecting the industry have been provided to the board during the year.
None of the independent non-executive directors participates in the share option schemes or long-term incentive plan operated by the The training needs of the board are regularly reviewed.
There is an company and none was dependent on the fees received from the agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in furtherance of company as their primary source of income.
their duties, to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The company has in place directors' and The senior independent non-executive director is Howard Phillips, officers' liability insurance.
who was appointed to the board in June 1998 and has never been employed by the company.
The board considers that he remains independent from management in both character and judgment, that GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE his performance continues to be effective and that he continues to the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the demonstrate commitment to the role.
The chairman holds regular informal meetings with the nonexecutive directors without the executive directors being present.
Tim Bridge took over as chairman of the board on 2 May 2005.
The board noted that he did not meet the independence criteria of the The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at combined code as a result of his long tenure on the board.
scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
However, the board was and remains confident that the strength of character and independent judgement that he exhibited as chief Board committees executive would continue in his role as chairman.
The board is satisfied that his performance as chairman is effective and that he The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
Tim Bridge is a committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal non-executive director of William Ransom & Son plc and terms of reference governing its method of operation.
Each of the Weatherbys Ventures Limited but these are not regarded as terms of reference, which are available on request and will be available significant commitments which will impact upon his ability to perform for inspection at the annual general meeting, reflect the provisions of his role as chairman effectively.
the combined code and have been approved by the board.
Meetings and attendance Set out below are reports from each of the nomination committee, Board meetings are scheduled to be held nine times a year.
There is audit committee and remuneration committee.
also a strategy day and a pub away-day for the full board each year.
Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact Nomination committee report to progress the companys business and if necessary, board meetings During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc Bridge, and the other members of the committee were Alan Bowkett, committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it Howard Phillips and Norman Murray.
Apart from the chairman, all is known will need to be dealt with between scheduled board members are considered by the board to be independent.
If directors are unable to attend meetings they are given Meetings held during 2005-06 Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee 93 5 4 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive directors Rooney Anand 9 - - - 2 Justin Adams 6- - - Mark Angela 9 - - - 3 Ian Bull 4- - - David Elliott 9 - - - 4 Michael Shallow 5- - - Non-executive directors Tim Bridge 9 - - 4 Alan Bowkett 8 2 4 3 5 John Brady 8- - - Norman Murray 9 3 5 4 Howard Phillips 9 3 5 4 Jane Scriven 9 3 - - During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
1 - not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
2 Justin Adams was appointed as a director on 5 September 2005.
He has attended all board meetings since that date.
3 Ian Bull was appointed as a director on 9 January 2006.
4 Michael Shallow resigned as a director on 31 December 2005.
He attended all board meetings up to that date.
5 John Brady was appointed as a director on 24 June 2005.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Its role is to propose candidates for appointment to the board, to During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board and within Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work such as taxation advice make recommendations to the board with regard to any adjustments and transaction support.
The audit committee has established a that are deemed necessary.
policy in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work.
The company will award non-audit work to the firm which provides The committee met four times during the year, with three of the the best commercial solution for the work in question.
Pieces of meetings being held to deal with the appointment of the new work estimated to be in excess of an agreed level are put out to directors.
The chief executive, at the request of the committee, tender unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit attends its meetings.
Limits of authority have been placed on the ability of the finance director and the chairman of the audit committee to approve The appointment of John Brady as a non-executive director was made specific engagements, with fees in excess of those limits being without reference to an external search consultant as his reputation subject to approval of the committee.
was known to the board through his background with McKinsey.
It was established in an informal discussion that he was willing to serve The company has a limited internal audit function which focuses on and, having considered his other commitments, the committee the group's managed house division, where the greatest financial recommended his appointment to the board from 24 June 2005. risks are perceived to exist.
Elsewhere within the group a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following their financial risks involved are felt to be such that a wider internal audit appointment and subsequently in every third year.
John Brady was refunction would be superfluous.
elected as a director at the AGM in 2005.
The nomination committee undertakes a review of all directors who are due for re-election to Remuneration committee report determine whether or not to recommend their re-appointment.
During the year the remuneration committee was chaired by Howard Phillips and the other members were Alan Bowkett and Norman Audit committee report Murray.
All the members were considered by the board to be The audit committee is chaired by Norman Murray and the other independent.
members of the committee during the year were Alan Bowkett, Howard Phillips and Jane Scriven.
All members are considered by The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration the board to be independent.
The board is satisfied that Norman policy for the executive directors and the chairman and fixing the Murray has recent and relevant financial experience, being a total individual remuneration package of each of the executive chartered accountant who has already chaired audit committees of directors, considering the granting of share options and awards other UK listed companies and is also currently President of the under the long-term incentive plan and determining bonuses Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
payable to the executive directors.
The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full year The remuneration committee met five times during the year.
The audit and approve the interim results in each case prior to their chairman and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, submission to the board.
It is also responsible for reviewing the attend its meetings.
The chairman does not participate in any company's internal financial control and risk management systems, discussions relating to his own remuneration.
The chief executive is advising the board on the appointment of external auditors, consulted by the committee on its proposals, but does not participate overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing the in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
company's whistleblowing procedures and considering the need for a full internal audit function.
Details of the company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are set out in the remuneration report The committee had three meetings during the year and on each on pages 69 to 77. occasion the then finance director attended.
The external auditors attended all of the meetings.
In addition, the chairman regularly Communication with shareholders meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the board, with the annual report and interim statements being the The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with the principal media used.
In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, means of communicating directly with private shareholders, who objectivity and independence.
It agrees the scope of the audit work have a full opportunity to ask questions.
The board aims to ensure and discusses the results of the full year audit and interim review that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen of each year.
The board is satisfied that the auditors are independent of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
the company and that best practice is being observed.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 80 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt In preparing each of the group and company financial statements, with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the the directors are required to: report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with both consistently.
the articles and the combined code and is sent to shareholders a minimum of 20 working days before the meeting.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim For the group financial statements, state whether they have results.
The board receives regular reports from the chief executive been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
on the meetings he and the finance director have with principal shareholders.
The senior independent non-executive director, For the company financial statements, state whether applicable Howard Phillips, is available to shareholders if they have concerns UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any about governance issues which the normal channels of contact have material departures disclosed and explained in the company failed to resolve.
The company maintains a web site www.
co. uk to Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis provide up-to-date, detailed information on the companys unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor relations company will continue in business.
All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for presentations to investment analysts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Directors' responsibility statement position of the company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general These are the groups first consolidated financial statements responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prepared in accordance with IFRS.
safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group and company financial statements, in accordance with Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also applicable law and regulations.
responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that UK company law requires the directors to prepare group and law and those regulations.
company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements Internal control in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the company financial statements in accordance with UK The board acknowledges its responsibility for the group's systems of Accounting Standards.
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not to eliminate, the risk of The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as failure to achieve business objectives.
They can provide reasonable, adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded performance of the group.
and that the financial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
The company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these and The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial other issues.
There are processes in place which are in accordance statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
The statements giving a true and fair view are references to their board has adopted a formal risk policy and regularly reviews risk achieving fair presentation.
management and internal controls, including key performance indicator data on the significant risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective management of risk throughout the business at their regular meetings.
This group oversees the development of risk management strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and monitors progress made.
The audit GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
Exception summary The board is ultimately responsible for the companys system of internal The company is committed to ensuring that high standards of control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal assessment of the corporate governance are maintained.
The board considers that the risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date company has complied with the combined code, except in the of this report has been undertaken, based on detailed reports from, and following areas.
subsequent discussions with, senior management.
No significant problems were disclosed in these reports.
1.3 requires the non-executive directors to meet without the The control environment comprises the elements set out below: chairman at least once a year to appraise the chairman's performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
6.1 Internal control and risk management process requires the non-executive directors to evaluate the performance of The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management the chairman, taking into account the views of the executive and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the directors.
This exercise was carried out in June 2006. significant risks faced.
Major risks are identified, the financial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and A.
6 effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
6 requires the board to undertake a formal and rigorous annual Any issues arising from this process are discussed with evaluation of it own performance and that of its committees and operational management as needed.
Appropriate steps are then individual directors.
This exercise was carried out in June 2006. taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and the audit committee of the board.
Internal audit The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, the audit committee assesses the procedures and scope of internal audit within the group, including seeking the views of the external auditors.
Annual budgets Detailed annual budgets covering all financial aspects of the groups business are evaluated and approved by the board.
The actual results are compared against these budgets on a four-weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any appropriate action can be taken.
Capital and project control There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the original plan.
Certain transactions are reserved for approval by the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of authority have been identified for employees.
External audit The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit and interim review.
