GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 13 Richard Hutton FCA Finance Director, 38, was appointed CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to the Board on 13 March 2006.
He qualified as a Chartered The Board recognises the importance of, and is Accountant with KPMG and gained career experience with committed to, high standards of corporate governance Procter & Gamble before joining Greggs in 1998.
He was and to integrity and high ethical standards in all of its appointed Finance Director on 10 May 2006.
Richard is also a business dealings.
non-executive director of Northern Recruitment Group plc.
The Board considers that it has complied, throughout the Malcolm Simpson FCA IT Director, 65, qualified as a year under review, with the principles of governance set out Chartered Accountant with what is now known as KPMG.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate governance He then worked for eight years within the finance department published by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined of Procter and Gamble.
He joined the Company in 1973 and Code effective during the financial year.
was appointed Finance Director in 1975.
He stepped down from this role in May 2006 and is now responsible for the IT The following statements, together with the Directors' operations of the Company.
Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 64, describe how the Raymond Reynolds Retail Director, 47, was appointed relevant principles and provisions of the Combined Code to the Board on 18 December 2006.
He joined Greggs in were applied to the Company in 2006 and will be relevant retail management in 1986.
During the late 1990s, as General to the Company for the 2007 financial year.
Manager he built a significant new business for Greggs in the THE BOARD Edinburgh region, and in 2002 he was appointed Managing Composition Director of Greggs of Scotland.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 4 executive Stephen Curran, 63, joined the Board in 1981.
He was and 5 non-executive directors as follows: Chairman of Candover Investments plc from 1999 to 2006, having previously been Chief Executive of Candover since Derek Netherton Chairman, 62, spent his career in January 1991.
Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, he was a investment banking and retired in 1996 from his position as managing consultant with Coopers & Lybrand Associates joint head of corporate finance at J Henry Schroder & Co and then an investment manager with what is now Cinven.
He is a non-executive director of Next plc and He remains a director of Candover Investments plc and is a St Jamess Place plc.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 March non-executive director of Copthorne Holdings Limited, O. X. I. P. 2002 and was appointed Chairman in August of the same and the Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad Corporation.
There have been no significant changes to the Chairmans In 2004 he was appointed as the Senior Independent other commitments during 2006.
He is Chairman of the Non-Executive Director.
Ian Gregg OBE, 67, qualified as a solicitor before joining Sir Michael Darrington FCA Managing Director, 65, the Company as Executive Chairman and Managing Director qualified as a Chartered Accountant and then spent 17 years on the death of his father in 1964.
He built the business up with United Biscuits, latterly in General Management.
During from a single-shop operation to a multi-divisional specialist this time he attended the PMD course at Harvard Business retailer with almost 300 shops by the time of its successful School.
He joined Greggs in 1983 and was appointed Managing flotation in 1984.
Following the appointment of Director in January 1984.
Mike Darrington as Managing Director in January 1984, 14 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Directors Report and Business Review continued Sir Ian Gibson CBE, 60, was appointed to the Board on CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 1 April 2006.
He was Chief Executive of Nissan Europe N. V. Ian continued in the role of Executive Chairman until July 1993.
Senior Vice President of Nissan Motor Company Japan, He was then invited to become non-executive Chairman, Deputy Chairman of Asda Group and Chairman of BPB plc.
which role he handed over to Derek Netherton in August 2002.
He is now a non-executive director of Northern Rock plc and GKN plc and Chairman of Trinity Mirror plc.
Bob Bennett, 59, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He trained as a Chartered Accountant with Spicer & Effectiveness Pegler and was Group Finance Director of Northern Rock plc The Board, under the chairmanship of Derek Netherton, meets from 1993 until his retirement at the end of January 2007. regularly to discharge its duties.
At these meetings, it reviews He has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2004.
Group strategy, performance, resources, risk management Julie Baddeley, 55, was appointed to the Board in March procedures and other matters reserved for the Board.
She has held senior executive roles in the Woolwich the executive responsibility for running the Companys business plc where she was responsible for Information Technology rests ultimately with the Managing Director, Mike Darrington, and Human Resources, Accenture and Sema Consulting.
Julie the non-executive directors ensure that the strategies proposed is a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building Society, by the executive directors are fully discussed and critically Computerland UK and is an Associate Fellow of the Said examined prior to adoption.
During 2006, the Board met Business School, Oxford.
Julie was appointed as Chair of the five times and the number of meetings attended by each Remuneration Committee in 2005. director was as follows: Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Number of meetings held 5 3 6 2 Derek Netherton 5 - - 2 Mike Darrington 5 - - 2 Malcolm Simpson 5 - - - Richard Hutton appointed 13 March 2006 4 - - - Raymond Reynold appointed 18 December 2006 - - - - Ian Gregg retired from the Remuneration Committee 9 March 2006 5 - 1 2 Stephen Curran 4 2 5 2 Julie Baddeley 5 3 6 2 Ian Gibson appointed 1 April 2006, appointed to the Remuneration Committee 10 May 2006 4 2 4 1 Bob Bennett 5 3 6 2 Susan Johnson resigned 30 September 2006 3 2 - 1 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 15 The Board has adopted a paper identifying the separation of Ian Gregg is a member of the Companys pension scheme and a former employee, Managing Director and the roles of the Chairman and the Managing Director.
The Chairman of the Company.
Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information Stephen Curran and Ian Gregg have both served on the in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge Board for more than nine years from the date of their its duties.
The Board considers that it effectively leads and first election.
All directors take decisions objectively The Board is grateful for the continued involvement of Ian and in the interests of the Company.
The non-executive and Stephen, who bring considerable experience and insight directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting to Board discussions.
Both are now required by the Companys agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of Articles of Association to seek re-election to the Board by performance.
All directors receive induction training on joining shareholders annually see below.
the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or activities must retire and seek re-election at the first AGM following outside the Company.
Thereafter, one half of the directors other than The Board meets with the senior management at a different those appointed since the last AGM being those who have operating division each year.
In addition, as part of the process been in office longest since last re-election and any other of maintaining an awareness of the Companys activities and director who has not been elected or re-elected at either of assessing the ability of the management team, several members the two preceding AGMs must seek re-election at each AGM.
of the senior management team are invited to attend Board Any non-executive director who has served on the Board for meetings and or to present papers to the Board.
This process more than nine years must seek re-election annually.
also affords senior managers the opportunity to bring matters All directors are able to receive training and to take to the attention of the Board.
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that a strategy is in place for orderly They also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who succession to the Board and to positions of senior management is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on all governance matters.
within the Company and on the Board.
During the year, the Chairman met with the non-executive After carefully reviewing the guidance in the Combined Code, directors without the executive directors present.
The Senior all of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board Independent Director meets the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement and to be free without the Chairman present annually to appraise the from any business or other relationship or circumstance which Chairman's performance.
The performance of the Board, its is likely to affect or to interfere with the exercise of their Committees and of all directors is evaluated annually by a independent judgement.
The following relationships might formal and rigorous process.
Each director completes a appear to be capable of affecting the individual non-executive questionnaire.
The results are fed back to the Chairman and directors independence.
However, having considered these the Senior Independent Director and then to the Board for relationships carefully, the Board is of the view that they do discussion.
These discussions are used to identify actions to not and that the individuals concerned are of sufficient improve effectiveness and also to identify individual and strength of character to avoid allowing their independence collective training needs.
to be so compromised: 16 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Directors Report and Business Review continued The Remuneration Committee currently consists entirely CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED of independent non-executive directors Julie Baddeley Board Committees Chair, Stephen Curran, Bob Bennett and Ian Gibson.
The The Board delegates some of its activities to the following Committees main duties are to determine the basic salary, committees, each of which has written terms of reference, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, which are available on the Companys website.
The Company performance-related bonuses, share options and pension Secretary acts as secretary to each of these Committees.
benefits of the executive directors and the Chairman on The Audit Committee currently consists of four behalf of the Board.
The Committee is also responsible for independent non-executive directors Bob Bennett - Chairman, the operation of the Companys share option schemes and, Stephen Curran, Julie Baddeley and Ian Gibson.
when requested by the Board or by the Managing Director, The Committees main functions are to endeavour i to ensure for monitoring and making recommendations in respect of that the accounting and financial policies of the Company the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
are proper and effective: ii to monitor the integrity of the A separate Executive Director Committee sets, after accounts and information published by the Company: iii to discussion with the Chairman, the fees for the non-executive review the internal financial controls and the Groups approach directors so as to ensure that no director is involved in setting to risk management: and iv to monitor compliance with his or her own remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Report is set out on pages 58 to 64 of this Annual Report.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Derek The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual and interim accounts issued to shareholders, compliance Netherton - Chairman, all of the non-executive directors and with financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the Mike Darrington.
The Committees main functions are to internal audit function.
The Committee also considers and review the balance and constitution of the Board: to advise makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the the Board as to whether directors retiring by rotation should independence and objectivity of the external auditors including be nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by them and and manage the process for setting the specification for all their suitability for re-appointment.
The Audit Committee Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that determines the scope of the external audit in discussion with specification and making recommendations to the Board on the external auditors and agrees their fees in respect of the the basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in audit.
The Committee normally meets with the Finance respect of all new Board appointments.
Director and the external auditors in attendance, although time Each of the Committees is provided with sufficient resources is set aside annually for discussion between the Committee and to undertake its duties.
the external auditors and with the internal auditors, in each case in the absence of all executive directors, and the Committee RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chairman has the power to engage outside advisers if it sees fit.
The ensures that there is effective communication with individual Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the and institutional shareholders through the announcement of internal audit activities.
regular trading updates, as well as general presentations after The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that announcement of the interim and preliminary results and the at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent posting of results on the Companys website.
The Board receives and relevant financial experience the Board is satisfied in reports on any comments received from shareholders this respect.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 17 The Board considers that the AGM is the main forum for Board of Directors The Board takes a proactive approach to the management communication with investors, with the Chairmen of the Board of all forms of risk, and views risk management as a vital and its Committees available to answer any issues raised constituent of its role.
At each Board meeting, the and any newly appointed directors being available to meet effectiveness of the controls relating to the most significant shareholders.
In addition, the Company Secretary and the risks i. e. those which may restrict the Companys ability to Companys Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all meet its objectives are monitored and reviewed.
The Audit relevant shareholder communications.
The Board also Committee, on behalf of the Board, conducts a formal review reviews briefings and comments by analysts in order to maintain of risks and risk management procedures and reports its findings to the Board.
Remedial action is determined where an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
For some key risks, where it is felt necessary, The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders specialist advice is sought from external agencies and if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels professional advisers.
The Board also reviews, at least annually, of the Chairman, Managing Director or Finance Director have the level and scope of insurance cover maintained within the failed to resolve, or for which such contact is not appropriate.
The Board receives reports from management on significant changes in the business and external environment At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against which might affect the risk profile.
It has also set in place a each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
system of regular hierarchical reporting, which provides for All substantial issues, including the receipt of the annual report relevant details and assurances on the assessment and control and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is ultimately responsible Operating Board for the Groups system of internal control, which covers all The Operating Board, answerable directly to the Managing aspects of the business, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Director, is responsible for implementing decisions of the However, any such system can only be designed to manage, Main Board and providing protection against the major risks by various techniques, including sharing best practice, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the monitoring, supervision and training.
Companys objectives and, therefore, is only able to provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Risk Committee misstatement or loss.
The directors regularly review the risks A Risk Committee, consisting of the heads of each management to which the Company is exposed, as well as the operation function within the business, has responsibility for analysing, and effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
This is assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys risk environment, as well as devising a sound risk management an ongoing process which accords with the guidance in the strategy for review and approval by the Board.
The Risk Turnbull report, involving the identification, evaluation and Committee reports its findings and important changes to the management of the significant risks faced by the Company.
Board on a regular basis through personal presentation, Key elements of the internal control system, which have narrative reports and key performance indicators internal and been in place during the whole of the year under review and external to the organisation and through the Audit Committee.
up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and The Risk Committee also feeds the results of its assessments accounts, are: back into the business planning process at least annually.
18 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Directors Report and Business Review continued Health and Safety CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Company is committed to improving continuously the The risks are assessed on a regular basis across all functional working environment with the objective that accidents and areas but, in particular, the areas of food safety, health and work related ill health should progressively be reduced.
An safety, information flow, asset protection and regulatory requirements.
occupational health strategy has been produced with Health and Safety Officers and Occupational Nurses appointed in The Board considers the key risks to the Group to be as follows: every division.
Targets are set and programmes are devised External factors to implement them.
This approach involves a rigorous health Changes in the retail trading environment or in customer assessment, during which hazards are identified, risks assessed, preferences will clearly have an effect on the business.
The control measures applied and improvement actions agreed Company continually monitors market trends, the performance to manage residual risks.
of its competitors and the performance of its own products and retail formats.
Consumer research is carried out and key Financial Reporting market reports are monitored.
The Company operates a comprehensive financial control system that incorporates Divisional Financial Controllers who Operational The safety of our products, employees and customers is have responsibility for implementation of the Companys paramount.
Detailed systems are in place to ensure that we financial management policies within each division.
Each are operating safely and these systems are subject to regular Divisional Financial Controller works closely with their audit to ensure compliance.
High priority is given to respective Divisional Managing Director to monitor implementing any resulting recommendations.
performance at Divisional Board level as against planned and Detailed plans are in place for all our major production facilities prior year comparatives.
In addition, assets and liabilities are to maintain business continuity in the event of any potentially scrutinised at several levels on a regular basis and remedial disruptive occurrence.
A comprehensive annual planning process is carried out which determines expected levels of Organisational performance for all aspects of the business.
Each Divisional The success of the Company is dependent upon the efforts Financial Controller also reports directly to the Finance and abilities of its employees.
The Company has established remuneration packages that will attract, retain and motivate Director on technical matters.
individuals with appropriate skills and experience.
A senior Whistle Blowing management executive training programme is in place together with group-wide processes for the training and development The Company has adopted whistle blowing procedures of all employees.
enabling employees to bring matters to the attention of the senior management and for the confidential, proportionate Policies and Procedures and independent consideration and follow-up of any matter so Policies and procedures, covering control issues across raised.
The whistle blowing procedures are reviewed appropriate aspects of the business, are defined and regularly by the Audit Committee.
communicated to the respective managers and staff at all levels.
Adherence is monitored and reported upon on an ongoing basis.
