Corporate Governance Corporate governance be independent, due to him being the appointee of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of CVC Shareholders under Article 73 of the Companys corporate governance.
The Board is committed to high Articles of Association.
standards of corporate governance and its policy has been to manage the affairs of the Company in It is the policy of the Nomination Committee and the accordance with the principles of good governance and Board to maintain an appropriate balance between the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined executive and non-executive directors in line with the Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the provisions of the Combined Code.
As reflected in the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the biographical details of the directors given on pages 22 Combined Code.
The following statement describes and 23, the directors have wide experience, which enables how the Company has applied the main and supporting them to contribute fully to the Board and to the Groups principles set out in the Combined Code.
business and ensures that independent judgement is exercised on issues such as strategy and performance Compliance with the Combined Code and also that a proper balance of power is maintained for The directors consider that the Company has fully full and effective control.
The Board believes that all the complied with the requirements of the Combined Code directors devote sufficient time and attention as necessary throughout the period under review.
in order to perform their duties.
The directors The Company is supportive of executive directors who The following persons were directors of the Company wish to take one non-executive directorship with a during the year: company outside the Group, as exposure to such duties Rob Templeman Chairman to 31 March 2006 can broaden experience and knowledge, which will be to Richard Pym Senior Independent Director to 31 March the benefit of the Company.
Executive Directors may retain 2006, Chairman from 1 April 2006 any fees they receive.
Ian McLeod is currently a nonIan McLeod Chief Executive executive director of Fulham Football Club 1987 Limited.
Nick Carter Finance Director Jonathan Feuer non-executive director to Richard Pym was the Senior Independent Director 11 January 2006 throughout the period under review.
The Board has Keith Harris non-executive director appointed Nigel Wilson as the Senior Independent Bill Ronald non-executive director Director with effect from 1 April 2006.
The Senior Nigel Wilson non-executive director, Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders Independent Director from 1 April 2006 upon request if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or The Boards role is to determine the long-term direction executive directors has failed to resolve, or for which and strategy of the Group, create value for such contact is inappropriate.
shareholders, monitor the achievement of business objectives and ensure that good corporate governance The Board will appoint any new directors having first is practised and that the Group meets its other considered recommendations made to it by the responsibilities to its shareholders, customers and other Nomination Committee.
Following such appointment, the stakeholders.
The Board is also responsible for director will be required to retire and seek reappointment ensuring that appropriate processes are in place in at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
respect of succession planning for appointments to Under the Companys Articles of Association there is also the Board and to senior management positions.
a process of rotation, which ensures that approximately one-third of all directors are required to retire and seek The Board is currently composed of six members, re-appointment at each Annual General Meeting and that consisting of two executive directors, a non-executive no director serves for more than three years without chairman and three non-executive directors.
The being proposed for reappointment at an Annual General Chairman, Richard Pym, was deemed by the Board to be Meeting.
At this years Annual General Meeting Richard independent on his appointment as Chairman.
The three Pym and Nick Carter will, in accordance with the Articles, non-executive directors are considered by the Board to seek re-election.
Accordingly, no individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making and Non-executive directors are appointed for specified the requirement of the Combined Code that at least half terms normally three years, subject to reappointment of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise under the Companys Articles of Association and subject independent non-executive directors is satisfied.
For the to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a period under review until his resignation on 11 January director.
The Chairman will confirm to shareholders when 2006, Jonathan Feuer was deemed by the Board not to proposing an appointment or reappointment that, 28 Corporate Governance Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 following formal performance evaluation, the individuals In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board held performance continues to be effective and they an additional meeting to review corporate strategy, the demonstrate commitment to the role.
Audit Committee held meetings to review the various trading statements, and the Nomination Committee met The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of to discuss the appointment of the new Chairman.
the Board and is not involved in day-to-day operational issues.
Save for matters reserved for decision by the The Board has a formal schedule of reserved powers, Board, the Chief Executive, with the support of the which it retains for Board decision-making on a range Finance Director, is responsible for the running of the of key issues, including the formulation of strategy, financial reporting and controls, corporate governance Groups business, carrying out the agreed strategy matters, and treasury and risk management.
A adopted by the Board and implementing specific Board procedure has been adopted for directors to obtain decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
independent professional advice, where appropriate, at The Board meets on a regular basis.
During the the cost of the Company and all directors have financial year ended 31 March 2006, the Board met unrestricted access to the Company Secretary.
In relation to non-reserved matters, the Board is assisted formally nine times.
Appropriate documentation and by a number of committees with delegated authority.
financial information is provided on a monthly basis and The make-up and roles of the Audit, Remuneration and also in advance of each Board meeting.
These normally Nomination Committees are described below and in include monthly management accounts, reports on relation to the Remuneration Committee in the current trading and papers on matters in respect of Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39. which the Board makes decisions or is invited to give its approval.
Specific presentations are also made on The Board has formally adopted an induction business or strategic issues, when appropriate.
The programme for new directors, which will be tailored to Board also receives information from management on each new director who joins the Board and includes the current trading of its retail units and their prospects briefings regarding the activities of the Group and visits and the market position of the Group, together with key to stores.
Documentation and training on their duties as issues being addressed by the management team.
directors are also available to all directors.
In addition, Minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all directors are also informed regularly on relevant Board members, unless a conflict of interest arises.
material changes to laws and regulations affecting the These procedures are intended to ensure that the Groups business.
All directors have access to the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is appropriate to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
also responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The number of meetings of the Board and of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees The Board has established a formal process for the held during the year ended 31 March 2006, together annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its with a record of the attendance, is set out below: principal committees and individual directors.
Number of meetings attended Questionnaires are drawn up, which provide the  for the evaluation process.
Each member of Board Audit ation ation Meetings Committee Committee Committee the Board or appropriate Committee submits replies to the questionnaires, which are collated.
Following a Rob Templeman review of these responses by the Board or the resigned 31 March appropriate Committee, any appropriate action will be 2006 8 taken to ensure that the performance of the Board as a Ian McLeod 9 3 whole, its principal Committees and individual directors Nick Carter 9 is such that each can perform at the optimum level for Richard Pym 9 3 2 3 the benefit of the Company.
The Senior Independent Nigel Wilson 9 3 2 Director and the other independent non-executive Bill Ronald 9 3 4 directors conduct the annual performance evaluation of Keith Harris 8 2 3 the Chairman.
Jonathan Feuer resigned 11 January The Company maintains an appropriate level of 2006 5 Directors and Officers liability insurance to provide Total meetings in year 9 3 2 4 cover for its directors and officers for claims and liabilities or legal actions arising out of the performance note: no entry denotes that a director was not a member of the relevant Committee of their duties or roles.
The directors of the Company, Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance 29 Corporate Governance and the directors of each of the Companys publication, the Committee has responsibility for subsidiaries, have the benefit of an indemnity provision monitoring a number of other areas of activity including: in the Companys Articles of Association that was the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls approved by shareholders at last years Annual General and the Groups risk management policies and Meeting.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying systems third party indemnity provision as defined by Section the integrity, performance, and independence of the 309A of the Companies Act 1985, was in force Groups relationship with the external auditor throughout the year and is currently in force.
reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee Board committees requires any proposal for expenditure of over The Board has established Nomination, Remuneration 25,000 on non-audit services to be referred to it and Audit Committees, with formally delegated duties for scrutiny and approval.
The Committee will and responsibilities and written terms of reference.
The determine whether the provision of such services Company Secretary acts as secretary to all three may affect the objectivity and independence of the Committees.
Only the members of each Committee are external auditor entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, making recommendations to the Board on the professional advisers and members of the senior appointment of auditors and the audit fee management team attend when invited to do so.
The keeping under review the scope and results of the Audit Committee will invite the external auditor to audit and its cost-effectiveness certain of its meetings.
In the cases of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, no member is present At least once a year the Audit Committee meets with when business pertinent to them is under discussion.
the external auditor without any executive directors A Treasury Committee, chaired by the Finance Director, present.
has been established to manage the day-to-day treasury needs of the Group.
The Treasury Committees Nomination Committee membership is drawn from senior members of the For the year ended 31 March 2006 the Nomination finance and treasury teams.
When the need arises, Committee comprised Richard Pym Chairman, Keith separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Harris, Bill Ronald and Ian McLeod from 27 April 2005.
Board to consider specific issues.
From 1 April 2006 the Committee also included Nigel Wilson.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald are Audit Committee independent non-executive directors.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Audit Committee comprised Nigel Wilson, Richard Pym and Bill Ronald.
The Nomination Committee has formal terms of From 1 April 2006 the Audit Committee comprised Nigel reference and meetings are held as and when required, Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill Ronald, all of whom are although the Committee is required to meet at least independent non-executive directors.
The Committee twice each year.
During the period under review it met chairman is Nigel Wilson, who, being also Chief Financial to consider succession planning for the Board and Officer of United Business Media plc, is considered by senior management generally, and to propose the the Board to have recent and relevant financial appointment of the new Chairman.
Each of the other independent non-executive directors on the Committee has, through their other In addition, its remit includes: business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
nominating candidates both executive and nonexecutive for appointment to the Board, to fill The Committee has formal terms of reference and meets vacancies or appoint additional persons to the at least three times a year, according to the requirements Board of the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the monitoring the size, structure, balance and Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the composition of the Board independent non-executive directors to meet without the evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and executive directors present.
The independent nonexperience of the Boards members executive directors also have the opportunity at this time making recommendations in respect of the to raise any issues of concern with the Companys membership of the Audit and Remuneration external auditor.
Committees making recommendations in respect of the In addition to monitoring the internal and external audit reappointment or not of non-executive directors functions and ensuring the integrity of the Groups and of the continuance in service or not of interim and full-year financial statements before executive directors.
30 Corporate Governance Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 In discharging its duties, the Committee considers the determining the basis on which the employment of challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the the Companys executive directors and certain skills and expertise required for the future.
In relation to senior executives of the Group is terminated any new appointments the Committee evaluates the operating and administering the Companys share balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the option schemes and employee benefit trust.
To Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a assist the Committee in its work, the services of description of the role and capabilities required for a remuneration consultants Watson Wyatt LLP were particular appointment.
retained to provide advice on appropriate levels of remuneration or fees for each of the directors and During the year, the Committee nominated Richard Pym for other senior executives in the Group.
who was not present at that meeting for appointment as Chairman, having unanimously agreed that he possessed The Committee also assists the Board in preparing the the requisite qualities, skills and experience for the role.
annual report on directors remuneration.
The Boards The Committee also noted that on his initial recruitment remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006 to the Board as the Senior Independent Director in 2004, is set out on pages 34 to 39 of this report.
Richard Pym had been identified by the external search agency engaged as being suitable to step into the Accountability, risk management and internal Chairmans position should a vacancy arise.
The Board control subsequently approved the nomination and Richard Pym The respective responsibilities of the directors and the was appointed as Chairman on 1 April 2006. external auditor in connection with the Companys financial statements are explained below under the Remuneration Committee headings Statement of Directors Responsibilities on For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Remuneration page 40 and Respective Responsibilities of Directors Committee comprised Keith Harris Chairman, Richard and Auditors on page 41.
The directors are responsible Pym and Nigel Wilson.
From 26 April 2006 the for presenting a clear and balanced assessment of the Committee also included Bill Ronald.
Keith Harris, Nigel financial situation and prospects of the Group and, as Wilson and Bill Ronald are all independent non-executive part of this assessment, the Chief Executives Review is directors.
The Board has agreed that Richard Pym will set out on pages 6 to 17 and the Finance Directors remain a member of the Committee, in anticipation of the Report is set out on pages 18 to 21.
Financial Reporting Councils recommendation to amend the Code, so as to allow company chairmen to sit on The Board has overall responsibility for the system of remuneration committees, being brought into effect.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group.
The system of internal control is The Committee has formal terms of reference and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of meetings are held as and when required, although the failing to achieve business objectives and can provide Committee is required to meet at least twice each year.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee on The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines all behalf of the Board reviews the effectiveness of the elements of the remuneration packages of the executive Groups systems of internal control.
directors and certain senior executives of the Group.
It approves the terms of service contracts with executive The Board considers risk assessment and control to be directors and would also approve any compensation fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within arrangements resulting from the termination by the an acceptable risk reward profile, and there is an Company of a directors service contract.
The Committee ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the also approves the grant of share options.
The terms of significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness reference of the Committee include the following: of related controls.
The key elements of this process are: making recommendations to the Board on the reviews of Group risk assessment reports by the Companys framework of executive remuneration Audit Committee and its cost reviews of performance, through a comprehensive reviewing and determining on behalf of the Board, system of reporting, based on an annual budget, the remuneration and incentive packages of the with monthly reviews against actual results, Companys executive directors and certain senior analysis of variances, key performance indicators executives of the Group to ensure that they are and regular forecasting fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to well-defined policies governing appraisal and the Groups overall performance approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance 31 Corporate Governance the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the Identification and evaluation of risks and control outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the objectives: The process of risk assessment and the Board and the Board receives minutes of those evaluation of its related financial impact is an meetings.
ongoing process reflected in decision-making at Group and operating levels.
The Boards internal control system focuses on a wide Monitoring and management of risk: Central review range of business risks and financial risks as follows: and approval procedures are in place in respect of the major areas of risk such as acquisitions and Business risks: There is an ongoing process for disposals, major contracts, capital expenditure, identifying, evaluating and managing the business risks litigation, treasury management and taxation.
faced by the Group and this process was in place for Conformity with procedures is monitored on an the year under review and up to the date of this Report.
Business risks are identified and evaluated through Information and communication: Comprehensive senior managements ongoing review of progress information systems are maintained at Group and against strategic objectives agreed with the Board.
The operating unit levels and are subject to scrutiny by business risks reviewed include: the Board, as follows: detailed budgeting procedures, with an annual external business risks, including regulatory and budget approval compliance obligations monthly consideration of actual results operational risks arising from, e. g. supplier compared with budgets and forecasts dependency, fire, material damage, etc.
regular reviews of rolling profit and cash flow legal risks, e. g. the risks arising under leases of forecasts retail units and under contracts with suppliers regular reviews of the Group capital informational risks, including the integrity of IT expenditure plan systems and the security of information reporting of legal and accounting the risks to members of staff from crime.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of these Regular executive and Board meetings and operational controls on behalf of the Board.
reviews are held with a view to ensuring variances and discrepancies are identified and investigated in a timely Financial risks: The key internal financial control way.
Reviews of issues arising under the annual audit procedures, which operated in the Group throughout the are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and period covered by the financial statements, are as follows: the Board and corrective action agreed and implemented.
The external auditor reports directly to Control environment: Levels of authority and the Audit Committee.
The Groups business operates within a framework of procedures laid Deloitte & Touche LLP, as independent adviser, is down in written policy documents and the Groups formally engaged to provide internal audit services personnel are required to comply with these reporting to the Board, via the Audit Committee.
These procedures as relevant to their functions and reports evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of our responsibilities.
Financial reporting follows generally internal controls and recommend improvement, based accepted accounting practice.
on a systematic risk assessment of the business.
32 Corporate Governance Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Relationship with shareholders The Board is committed to the constructive use of the The Board recognises the importance of establishing Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with and maintaining good relationships with all of the investors and to hear their views and answer their Companys investors.
The Chief Executive, Finance questions about the Group and its business.
The Director and the Chairman meet regularly with analysts Company will dispatch the notice of the Annual General and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of Meeting, with an explanatory circular describing any significant developments and report to the Board items of special business, at least 20 working days accordingly on the views of the major shareholders.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Senior Independent Director is also available to attend Nomination and Audit Committees will normally attend such meetings, if required.
Each of the other nonthe meeting and will answer questions that may be executive directors is also offered the opportunity to relevant to the work of those Committees.
If they are attend meetings with major shareholders and would do unable to attend they will appoint a deputy to attend in so if requested by any major shareholder.
It is the Companys practice to propose Companys investor relations programme includes separate resolutions on each substantially separate formal presentations of full year and interim results.
issue at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman will Feedback from these meetings is provided to the advise shareholders on the proxy voting details for each Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with resolution after it has been put to the meeting.
bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys The Companys financial calendar is set out on shareholders, including private investors.
The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Directors remuneration Accounts are the primary means the Board has of Details of directors remuneration and emoluments communicating during the year with all of the required to be disclosed by the Combined Codes Companys shareholders.
The Board also recognises requirements regarding remuneration matters and by the importance of the Internet as a means of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 are set out in communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39. an extensive investor relations website at The Directors Remuneration Report will be put to an www.
com has been developed to advisory vote of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual facilitate communications with shareholders.
Information available online includes copies of the full and interim financial statements, press releases and By order of the Board Company news, corporate governance information and statements, the schedule of matters reserved for the Philip Parker, Company Secretary Board, and the terms of reference for the Audit, 7 June 2006 Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance 33
