Halma p. l. c. 2006 91 Corporate governance The Board is committed to the maintenance of high standards Application of the principles of good governance of Corporate governance.
The policy of the Board is to manage The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting of a the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles of Chairman, four Directors and three other non-executive Directors.
corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Their biographies appear on pages 86 and 87.
The Board Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules considers the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is to be independent.
In assessing independence, the Board accountable to shareholders.
considers that the Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent of management and free from business and other Compliance with the code of best practice relationships which could interfere with the exercise of Throughout the financial year, the Company complied with independent judgment now and in the future.
The Board believes the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC that any shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance except in respect Directors serve to align their interests with those of all of provisions A3.2, A4.1 and C3.1 all of which involve the shareholders.
Mr Stone is acknowledged as the Senior composition of the Board or its committees and the number Independent Director.
Upon appointment and at regular intervals, of members who are independent non-executive Directors.
all Directors are offered appropriate training.
Each Director is The Board reaffirmed its decision to maintain the composition subject to re-election at least every three years.
of the Board based on its assessment that this is the most The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of appropriate structure for the Company: the Chairman also corporate strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk specifically raised this point with shareholders during the 2005 management policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters Annual General Meeting and received the unanimous support of reserved for the Boards decision and the Board meets at least those present.
However Geoff Unwin, Chairman of the Board, six times each year with further ad hoc meetings as required.
did step down from membership of the Audit and Remuneration Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive board Committees in August 2005 to ensure compliance with the papers in the week preceding each Board meeting.
The Board believes it important that the have access to the advice and services of the Company Chairman continue to attend these Committee meetings, by Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for invitation, to enable him to contribute to their deliberations and to obtaining independent professional advice.
enable him to properly discharge his responsibilities as Chairman.
From August 2005, the Nomination Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
Board and Committee meeting attendance During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total scheduled meetings 6 3 3 2 Geoff Unwin 5 1 1 2 Andrew Williams 6 N A N A 2 Kevin Thompson 6 N A N A N A Neil Quinn 6 N A N A N A Richard Stone 6 3 3 2 Keith Roy 6 N A N A N A Andrew Walker 6 3 3 1 Stephen Pettit 6 3 3 1 Geoff Unwin was not a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee when two of the three meetings of each Committee were held.
Andrew Walker and Stephen Pettit were not members of the Nomination Committee when one of the two meetings was held.
92 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Corporate governance continued Committees of the Board Other committees Halma has six committees of the Board: the Remuneration The Share Plans, Bank Facilities and Guarantees and Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, Acquisitions and Disposals Committees terms of reference the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Facilities and Guarantees provide that certain Directors and the Company Secretary Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
may form sub-committees to cover administrative matters or to Each of these committees has terms of reference approved by formally enact matters that have already been determined by the Board, copies of which are available on request from the the Board in principle.
Executive Board Remuneration Committee Control of divisional operating matters is delegated to the Richard Stone chairs the Remuneration Committee of which Executive Board of which the Group Chief Executive, Group each of the non-executive Directors is a member.
The Committee Finance Director and all of the Divisional Chief Executives are makes recommendations to the Board on the framework members.
Biographies of Executive Board members appear for executive Directors and senior executives remuneration on pages 86 and 87.
The Group Chief Executive chairs the based on proposals formulated by the Group Chief Executive.
Executive Board, which meets regularly, thereby ensuring The Committee meets at least twice per year.
Further information the Boards strategies are communicated to those overseeing about the Committee is contained in the Report on remuneration operations.
The Executive Board reviews operational activities, trading Audit Committee results, budgets, policy matters, investment opportunities, Andrew Walker chairs the Audit Committee.
Each of the resource allocation and risk exposures.
Any matters arising out non-executive Directors is a member of the Committee.
of the Executive Board meetings are reported to the Board via The Committee reviews the interim and annual accounts and the Group Chief Executives report to the Board.
the disclosures contained therein, accounting policies and The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director matters of significant judgement, the statement on internal also meet regularly with each Divisional Chief Executive controls, the process of Internal Audit and the Group to monitor progress against key objectives and review whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee is also responsible operational performance.
for the relationship with the external auditors including terms of engagement, fee levels, approval of the annual audit plan, Individual operating company boards, chaired by the appropriate a review of the findings of the audit and assessing auditor Divisional Chief Executive, manage operating companies.
The Chairman, Group Chief These boards have clearly defined responsibilities for the Executive, Group Finance Director and representatives from the operation of their businesses, including compliance with Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to legislation and regulations, and for internal reporting.
The system provide appropriate advice.
The Committee routinely meets with of internal control exercised within the Group is described below.
the Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors: the Committee meets at least three times per year.
Board effectiveness The Board evaluates its performance and that of the Nomination Committee Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees at least Geoff Unwin chairs the Nomination Committee.
In 2005 06 the evaluation commenced with a joined the Committee on his appointment as Group Chief self-assessment questionnaire, the results of which were Executive in February 2005.
Richard Stone is also a member of compiled by the Company Secretary and discussed by the the Committee, and Andrew Walker and Stephen Pettit joined Board at the November 2005 Board meeting.
The Board then the Committee on 3 August 2005.
The Committee makes met in February 2006, separate from any scheduled meeting, recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new for a general discussion on Board effectiveness followed by a Directors.
External search consultancies are retained when meeting of the executive Directors with the Chairman, a meeting recruiting non-executive Directors and are used to evaluate of the Chairman and non-executive Directors, and then a internal and external candidates for succession planning.
meeting of the non-executive Directors without the Chairman The Committee meets at least annually.
The outcomes of these meetings were then fed back to individuals by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or Group Chief Executive, as appropriate.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 93 Investor relations Internal control In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Group The Board of Directors has overall responsibility to the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director communicate shareholders for the Groups system of internal control and the Groups strategy and results, disclosing such information responsibility for reviewing its effectiveness has been delegated as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Any system of internal control can Such meetings ensure that institutional shareholders provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against representing over 50% of the Companys issued share capital material misstatement or loss.
meet with the Company on a regular basis.
Major shareholders Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of the guidance are also offered the additional opportunity to meet with the for directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Meeting, and major shareholders are also invited to briefings the significant risks faced by the Group, that this has been in following the interim and annual results.
The content of place for the year under review and up to the date of approval presentations to shareholders and analysts at results of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process has been announcements and all announcements are contained reviewed by the Board, and the Group accords with the on the Group website, www.
The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Reports, biographical audited the financial statements and have reviewed the internal information on key Directors and Officers, share price financial control systems to the extent they consider necessary information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well to support their audit report.
as hotlinks to their own websites.
The website also contains the The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted facility to request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for by the Group.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors The Financial Calendar is set out on page 108. maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
Going concern Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable spreads the Group activities across a number of autonomous expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies operates with resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable a high quality board of directors including a finance executive.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes but is not limited to: a defined organisational structure with an appropriate delegation of authority to operational management: the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and informally through close monitoring of operations: a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets and previous years figures on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and Group level: an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure: self-certification by operating company management of compliance and control issues: a prescribed robust structure under which it is appropriate to adopt means of electronic communication and to conduct e-commerce.
94 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Corporate governance continued The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the As noted above, a programme of internal control visits is effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are conducted.
Following its review of internal control activities in summarised below.
2004, the Audit Committee established an internal audit function for independent reporting of the outcome of these visits to the Operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment Audit Committee.
each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this During the year several benchmarking activities have been information, against which action is monitored through to undertaken to assess the Groups Internal Audit activities.
In addition, Divisional Chief Executives carry out an result further improvements have been targeted for the coming independent risk assessment for each operating company.
year to enhance our processes.
A review of Group risks is also conducted.
Auditor independence Each month the board of each operating company meets, The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor discusses and reports on its operating performance, its independence and objectivity annually.
During 2003 04, the opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
Committee set down the Policy on Auditor Independence and The relevant Divisional Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
Services provided by the External Auditor.
This policy states Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the Group Chief that the Group will only use the appointed external auditor for Executive and Group Finance Director and report progress to non-audit services in cases where these services do not conflict the Executive Board.
The policy also sets a fee level A set of warning signs which are specifically relevant to every of 100,000 above which non-audit services are subject to a Halma operating company has been developed and these are tendering process.
The above fee levels for non-audit services reported and monitored each month with actions taken at senior regarding the external auditors are also subject to an annual cap level where required.
During the year the use of these warning equal to the audit fee.
signs has become further embedded within the operating processes of each company.
As a result, potential risks are highlighted at an earlier stage for corrective action.
The Group Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma p. l. c. Board meeting which includes financial information, the main features of Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks facing the Group at that time.
Cyclical internal control visits, the frequency of which has been increased this year, are carried out by senior finance staff resulting in actions fed back to each company and followed up by Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Chief Executives with the feedback process having been further strengthened during the year: visit reports are coded in terms of risk with any significant control failings reported directly to the Audit Committee and a summary of all such visits reported to the Audit Committee regularly: senior finance staff also carry out financial reviews at each operating company prior to publication of half year and year end figures.
The Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of Internal Control for its review.
The Board receives the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings and uses these as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
