Corporate governance 59 The Board is accountable to shareholders for good business governance The attendance records of individual Directors are set out below: and is committed to high standards of corporate governance, recognising that Hansons good reputation is one of the Companys most valuable assets.
Attendance M W Welton 7 7 To maintain and enhance this reputation Hanson has published its business A J Murray 7 7 principles which require its officers and employees to act in accordance with G Dransfield 7 7 the laws and customs of each country in which we do business: be honest J C Nicholls resigned October 31, 2006 6 6 and act ethically: operate with integrity: observe and respect the culture and W F Blount 7 7 traditions of each country in which we operate: and not to offer, pay or accept bribes or favours in any form whatsoever.
C J Brady 7 7 W S H Laidlaw 5 7 Divisional codes of conduct and supporting policies are also in place.
J W Leng 7 7 The Baroness Noakes 7 7 A code of ethics for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 US SOX, which applies to Hanson as a company listed on the NYSE, covering There are clearly occasions when circumstances arise which prevent Hansons Chief Executive, Finance Director, Legal Director, Divisional Chief Directors from attending meetings.
It is the usual practice in these Executives and other identifiable persons in the group, including those circumstances for the Director concerned to review the Board papers performing senior accounting and controller functions, is in place.
No with the Chairman and convey any views.
amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code were made during 2006.
This code is available on request from the Company Secretary or on All Directors then in office attended the AGM in 2006.
The Board managed overall control of the Companys affairs with reference The way in which Hanson applies the principles set out in the Combined to the schedule of matters reserved for its authorisation and approval, review Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in and responsibility.
This schedule was reviewed and updated during the year.
July 2003 the Code is described within this Corporate governance section and in the Remuneration report.
The Board considers that Hanson has been Of the matters reserved for authorisation and approval, during the year the in full compliance with the Code throughout the year under review and also Board considered and approved as appropriate the Companys long-term with the revised Code published in June 2006, applicable for reporting years strategy, the annual operating budget, the financial statements, dividend beginning on or after November 1, 2006. recommendations, treasury activities, major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects and expenditure, and the appointment of a new Finance Director.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice Hanson, as a company listed on the NYSE, is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the Matters for which the Board has responsibility include compliance with the rules of the SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of SOX, as it applies to groups corporate responsibility policies, including environmental and health foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst the Directors believe that the and safety for which group policies were endorsed during the year.
groups corporate governance policies are robust, changes have been and will continue to be made to ensure compliance with the rules that are in place Matters which the Board reviewed included quarterly results and performance at any point in time.
Hanson follows UK corporate governance practice, which against budget, the groups management resource planning and development, does not differ significantly from the NYSE corporate governance standards, charitable donations, the Companys corporate governance arrangements and except that the Nominations Committee is required to be comprised of a the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control, as set out below.
majority, rather than entirely, of independent directors.
All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the The Board of Directors Companys affairs.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors and their biographies The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility for ensuring that are on page 56. the business strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
This enables the Directors to act in the best long-term interest of shareholders, There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
whilst taking account of the interests of employees, customers, suppliers and The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive the communities in which the businesses operate.
is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, M W Welton has responsibility for the running of the Board and for ensuring that all The Non-executive Directors also oversee the operational performance of Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
To do this they have full and timely access to all relevant Executive, A J Murray has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed information, with updates also provided on governance and regulatory matters by the Board and for managing the group.
In addition, senior executives below Board level are invited, as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings to make presentations The commitments of the Chairman did not change during the year.
on their areas of responsibility.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be As part of the initial induction process for those Non-executive Directors independent of management and free from any business or other relationships newly appointed, documents describing the Company and its activities which affect their ability to exercise independent judgement.
J W Leng is the are provided.
An element of the induction focuses on relevant corporate Senior Independent Director.
responsibility matters and management resource planning and development.
The induction programme also includes site visits and, although there were The Board considers that the current Non-executive Directors bring a wide no new Non-executive Directors appointed in 2006, site visits were arranged range of business and financial experience required for the successful at various times during the year, including two arranged in conjunction with direction of Hanson as an international force in the heavy building materials the holding of the overseas Board meeting.
industry and provide a solid foundation for good corporate governance, ensuring that no individual or group dominates the Boards decision making.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity, and encouraged to go, for training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and Through the Nominations Committee, the Board ensures that plans are best practice and changing commercial and other risks.
Typical training in place for the succession of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
experience for all Directors included attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and working groups, in addition to which W F Blount completed The Chairman and the Company Secretary work closely together in planning an externally certified Directors College Programme in the USA.
the annual programme and agendas for meetings.
During the year, there were seven Board and strategy meetings held, including one offsite in the UK and In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors to seek both another in the US.
independent advice and the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Corporate governance Corporate governance 60 During the year, an evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including the Recommendations to shareholders on the re-appointment of the Directors effectiveness of Committees of the Board, was undertaken by external is not automatic and is subject to consideration by the Committee, prior consultants by way of a written questionnaire followed by individual meetings to approval by the Board.
A report was prepared for the Board for its consideration.
The results of the evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees were Audit Committee operating effectively but did identify some areas which would help the Board The Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors: provide a higher performance.
These covered such areas as the process The Baroness Noakes Chairman, W S H Laidlaw and J W Leng.
for developing strategy: the dynamics of the Board: talent management: enhancing the involvement of the Board with the operations: and the In 2006, the annual fees for chairing the Audit Committee and for acting as workings of the Board.
Identified improvements will be introduced in 2007. a member of the Committee were 20,000 and 5,500, respectively.
There has been no change to the fee arrangements for 2007.
The Board plans to conduct evaluations on an annual basis and may use alternative approaches in future years.
Regular attendees at Committee meetings, at the invitation of the Committee, included the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the As part of the evaluation process, the Chairman considered the performance, Group Financial Controller, the Group Chief Accountant and representatives including time commitments, of each individual Non-executive Director and from the external auditors.
In 2006, the Chief Executive also attended one concluded that the performance of each continues to be effective.
meeting prior to the appointment of a new Finance Director.
Also during the year and in the absence of the Chairman, the Non-executive The Committees principal duties include: Directors, led by J W Leng, conducted a review of and discussed the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements Directors.
Feedback was given, including any actions which will be put into reviewing the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial effect during 2007, to the Chairman, by J W Leng, and the conclusion reached reporting and risk management was that the Chairmans performance was effective.
Similarly, during the year, reviewing the internal audit programme and monitoring the effectiveness the Chairman met separately with the Non-executive Directors to consider of the internal audit function the performance of the Chief Executive in the discharge of his duties.
It was overseeing the processes for the appointment, re-appointment and removal concluded that the performance of the Chief Executive continues to be effective.
of the auditors approving the terms of engagement and the remuneration for audit services The Non-executive Directors fulfil a key role in corporate accountability.
The setting the policy for the provision of non-audit services and pre-approval remits and membership of the Remuneration, the Nominations and the Audit of all permitted non-audit services Committees of the Board are set out below.
The Company Secretary acts as monitoring the whistleblowing procedures secretary to all of these Committees.
ensuring the objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained.
The terms of reference of the Committees are available on Hansons website During the year the Committee met four times, which all of the Committee at www.
members attended, other than on one occasion when J W Leng was unable to attend.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of four independent The Board considers that each of the members of the Committee has Non-executive Directors: W S H Laidlaw Chairman, W F Blount, experience of corporate financial matters.
The Baroness Noakes, who is The Baroness Noakes and C J Brady and, since January 2007, a Chartered Accountant, is considered by the Board to have recent and M W Welton.
Its role is described in the Remuneration report.
relevant financial experience and is also identified as the Audit Committee financial expert for the purposes of SOX.
On appointment to the Committee In 2006, the annual fees for chairing the Committee and for acting as a all members receive appropriate induction.
There were, however, no new member were 12,500 and 5,500, respectively.
There has been no change members appointed during the year.
to the fee arrangements for 2007 and no fee will be paid to M W Welton for acting as a member of the Committee.
The Committee discharged its responsibilities through a series of Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports were presented for Nominations Committee review.
The Committee received reports either from the external auditors, The Nominations Committee consists of M W Welton as Chairman, the Head of Internal Audit or Company management.
The Committee A J Murray and the independent Non-executive Directors.
met privately with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit as appropriate.
It has authority to seek any information it requires from any The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, employee, authority to obtain external legal or other independent professional include the review of the structure, size and composition of the Board, with advice on any matter within its terms of reference and to secure the recommendations to the Board on any changes, and planning for the orderly attendance of external advisors with relevant experience and expertise if it succession of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
There were no occasions during the year when it considered it was necessary to obtain external advice.
There were no fees payable for chairing or acting as a member of the Committee in 2006.
There has been no change to the fee arrangements During the year, the Committees meetings considered, addressed or for 2007. approved, as appropriate, the following principal matters: During the year, on behalf of the Board, the Committee undertook a search the interim and full year financial results prior to consideration by the Board for the appointment of a new Finance Director, for which search a candidate the annual internal audit programme and its resourcing profile was agreed.
The Committee then appointed an external search the auditors interim and full year reports consultancy and met with candidates prior to making a recommendation the auditors report to management to the Board, which resulted in the appointment of P S Binning as Finance the overseeing of the groups SOX compliance work Director and as a member of the Board on January 2, 2007.
For the the overseeing of the whistleblowing programme appointment of Non-executive Directors, the Board considers the balance the scope and cost of the external audit of skills and experience on the Board and then agrees a candidate profile any non-audit work carried out by the auditors: and for the search, for which an external search consultancy is appointed.
The an evaluation of the effectiveness of the auditors, which included feedback Committee meets with candidates prior to making a recommendation to the from management on the quality of the audit and the working relationship Board.
No new Non-executive Directors were appointed during the year.
between management and the auditors, and consideration of their reappointment.
During the year the Committee met twice formally, and on a number of other occasions, principally in the search for a new Finance Director.
The Committee also undertook a review of its terms of reference and its own W S H Laidlaw was unable to attend one of the formal meetings.
The work and effectiveness, working with the same external consultants used for Committee also undertook a review of its own effectiveness, working with the Board evaluation, and reported back to the Board.
the same external consultants used for the Board evaluation, and reported back to the Board.
The Committee received reports during the year on the groupwide whistleblowing programme, MySafeWorkplace, through which employees Following appointment by the Board, new Directors must submit themselves may in confidence raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial for election by the shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
The Committee ensured proportionate and Thereafter, subject to the Articles of Association in relation to the re-election independent investigation of such matters with appropriate follow-up of Directors, all Directors are subject to re-election every three years.
biz 61 Additionally, to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditors Well-defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval of and to ensure that the independence of the audit work undertaken by the investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval auditors is not compromised, the Committee considered the auditors own procedures incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular assessment of independence and compliance with relevant professional post investment reviews.
The views of management were also taken into consideration.
Verification An internal audit function, which undertakes periodic examination of The Committee also has a policy for the provision of non-audit services business units and processes and recommends improvements in controls by the auditors.
The policy defines services which can be provided by the to management.
auditors and requires all non-audit services to be approved in advance by The external auditors, who are engaged to express an opinion on the the Committee, which has delegated this task to the Head of Internal Audit.
The approval process requires full disclosure of the objective and the scope An Audit Committee, which considers significant control matters and of services to be performed in addition to the fee structure.
During the year receives reports on internal controls from both the internal and external the Committee reviewed all approved services and level of expenditure.
The auditors on a regular basis.
auditors were permitted to perform non-audit service only where the scope of A Risk Committee, which monitors and reviews significant financial and work was within the terms of the policy and there was a business benefit non-financial risk.
to the group in these services being performed by them rather then an alternative supplier.
A breakdown of the non-audit fees can be found Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures in note 32 o of the Notes to the accounts.
The Company has a Disclosure Committee, which includes amongst its members, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Legal Director.
The Committee considered that Ernst & Young LLP were effective in The Committee monitors and reviews the groups disclosure controls and conducting the audit and work on SOX compliance during the year.
procedures to ensure these are satisfactory for the purpose.
The review includes the evaluation of the effectiveness as at December 31, 2006 Risk Committee of these disclosure controls and procedures to permit the signing of the A further Committee of the Board is the Risk Committee, which consists certifications required from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Legal Director and other in accordance with the requirements of section 302 of SOX.
Based on this senior executives.
It is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the groups evaluation, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director concluded that the significant financial and non-financial risks in relation to treasury activities, tax, disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information insurance, asbestos, legacy issues, pensions, internal audit, internal control, required to be disclosed in reports filed under the US Securities Exchange business risk and other matters as they arise from time to time.
As one of its Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within main duties, on behalf of the Board, the Committee identifies the principal specified time periods and that information required to be disclosed is risks and mitigating actions arising out of the internal control reviews, as accumulated and communicated to management, including them, to allow outlined below.
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal control Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting The Board recognises that it is responsible for the groups system of internal In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of SOX, the following control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Code requires the Board to report is provided by management in respect of the Companys internal review the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually.
In addition, under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code was published in September 1999 and revised in October 2005, to provide Hansons management is responsible for establishing and maintaining guidance to Directors in respect of this requirement.
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Hansons management has used the Committee of Sponsoring The Board confirms that procedures, which accord with the guidance, Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework to have been in place for the year to December 31, 2006 and up to the date evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
of approval of the Annual Report and Form 20-F by the Board.
These Management believes that the COSO framework is a suitable framework procedures provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and for its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting because it managing the principal risks faced by the group, thereby ensuring that is free from bias, permits reasonably consistent qualitative and quantitative the Board is made aware of these.
measurements of our internal controls, is sufficiently complete so that those relevant factors that would alter a conclusion about the effectiveness of our The Board is responsible for the system of internal control.
It is regularly internal controls are not omitted and is relevant to an evaluation of internal reviewed by the Risk Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, for control over financial reporting.
effectiveness and adequacy and the Board confirms that necessary actions Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses financial reporting, as at December 31, 2006, and has concluded that such identified from those reviews.
Such a system can only provide reasonable internal control over financial reporting is effective.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it Ernst & Young LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve statements of the group for the year ended December 31, 2006, has also business objectives.
In seeking to achieve these objectives, many of which audited managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control are already features of the existing processes and procedures within the over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
2 of the Public Company, the Board has specifically instituted the following processes, Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
See the Auditors which have been in effect throughout the reporting period and up to report on page 69. the date of approval of the Annual Report and Form 20-F by the Board.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting Policies During the period management has continued to improve its control A planning framework which incorporates a four year plan approved by environment and to enhance its information systems and processes.
There the Board, with objectives for each business unit.
have been no changes in the groups internal controls or in other factors A mechanism for reporting weaknesses in internal control systems and during the period that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely for monitoring corrective action.
to materially affect, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
Processes Internal Audit Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by recruitment and Each major operating division has internal audit capability and these are promotion, of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
co-ordinated centrally by the Head of Internal Audit under the guidance of A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based on an the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews internal audit annual budget with monthly reports against actual results, analysis of reports and considers the overall effectiveness of the function.
2006 has seen variances, scrutiny of key performance indicators and regular re-forecasting.
an ongoing focus on financial statement risks identified through existing risk Formal business risk reviews performed by management which evaluate management procedures and through the assessment of internal control over the potential financial and non-financial impacts of identified risks and financial reporting, required by SOX.
During 2006, we have further embedded possible new risk areas, set control, mitigation and monitoring procedures the SOX requirements in the organisation and broadened the scope of and review actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learnt.
internal audit to carry out more extensive work on operational risks.
This Regular treasury reports to the Board which analyse the funding greater emphasis on operational risks will continue into 2007 and will again requirements of each class of assets, track the generation and use of contribute to the development of the groups risk management framework and capital and the volume of liquidity, measure the groups exposure to its internal controls environment.
interest and exchange rate movements and record the level of compliance with the groups funding objectives.
Corporate governance Corporate governance 62 Shareholder communications Hanson values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors and, based on publicly available information, constructive two-way communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is promoted and encouraged.
Principally, the investor relations team maintain regular contact with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, regular analyst presentations, copies of which are available to download from the investors section of the Hanson website at www.
biz, are undertaken and roadshows by the Chief Executive and Finance Director follow the announcement of the interim and annual results.
A quarterly report covering analyst coverage, shareholder analysis, feedback from investor meetings and press coverage is provided to the Board.
An independent survey of the Companys major shareholders was also undertaken during 2006 with feedback, in the form of a presentation, given to the Board.
In addition, a consultation exercise was undertaken with the Companys major shareholders in relation to the introduction of a new Long Term Incentive Plan which was subsequently approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
Although the Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders, no specific shareholder requests were made during the year.
The Hanson website also provides information on the Company and its businesses.
It is not intended for the website address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this document.
At the AGM see page 58 for details, the Chief Executive will present a review of the results and current business activity.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions on items of business put before the meeting and will have the opportunity to vote separately on each resolution.
The Chairman will indicate the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution following each vote on a show of hands and details of those abstaining from voting will also be disclosed.
As for the prior year, this information will also be posted on the Hanson website after the meeting.
Following the meeting, the Directors will be available to meet with shareholders.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that Hanson has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors consider that they have: selected suitable accounting policies, and applied them consistently: made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and followed applicable international accounting standards.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the Annual Report and Form 20-F of the Company is placed on the Companys website www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Paul Tunnacliffe Company Secretary February 22, 2007 Hanson 2006 www.
