com Corporate Governance The Board of Hays plc bases its actions on the principles of On appointment, Directors receive a formal induction, which openness, integrity and accountability emphasised by the includes visits to relevant business units and functions.
July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance These are tailored to the individual needs of the Directors the Code.
This statement describes how the Company and continue throughout their tenure.
Brieng sessions on applies the principles of the Code.
legislative and accounting developments are held for the Board when appropriate.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2006 the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Company continues to maintain Directors and Ofcers of the Code.
liability insurance and under the Companys Articles of Association each Director or officer of the Company is Board indemnified by the Company for any liability incurred in The Board provides the Group with both leadership and defending proceedings in which the Director is acquitted, stewardship.
The Board comprises the Chairman, Chief or judgement is given in his, or her, favour.
Executive, Finance Director and four independent non-executive Directors.
Six Directors served throughout the whole financial Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and year.
Mr J W Martin resigned as a Director on 16 March 2006 Senior Independent Director and Mr P Venables was appointed as a Director on 2 May 2006.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
Biographical details for all the Directors appear on page 21, A formal division of each individuals responsibilities has been and demonstrate the range of experience and independent agreed and documented by the Board.
Mr B G Wallace is the judgement they each bring to bear on Board matters.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved The non-executive Directors bring an independent view to the for its decision, including acquisitions and disposals, major capital Boards discussions and its development of strategy.
Their projects, financial results, Board appointments, dividend range of experience ensures that managements performance recommendations, material contracts and Group strategy.
in achieving the business goals is challenged appropriately.
In conjunction with the executive Directors, they ensure that The Board meets at least 10 times a year and additionally as financial controls and systems of risk management are both required.
A two day strategy review meeting was held and rigorous and adequate for the businesses needs.
one overseas business unit was visited by the full Board during the financial year.
The Board received presentations on All the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board key aspects of the business from relevant senior management to be independent as detailed in the Code.
at other meetings during the financial year.
The letters of appointment for non-executive Directors are The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, available for review at the Registered Ofce and prior to the plans the programme for Board visits and presentations from Annual General Meeting.
senior executives during the year.
The agenda for Board and Committee meetings is considered by the relevant Chairman Performance evaluation and issued with supporting papers during the preceding week.
Building on the review undertaken in April 2005, the Board For each Board meeting, Directors receive a Board pack conducted a subsequent review of its effectiveness in 2006, including detailed monthly management accounts, proposed the findings of which were considered by the Board and acquisitions and disposals and major capital and operating certain actions are due to be implemented as a result.
Chairman has met with the non-executive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, to consider the findings The attendance of those Directors in place at the year end at of the review.
The Senior Independent Director has also met Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: with the other non-executive Directors to review the Chairmans performance, having consulted with the executive Directors.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Evaluation of individual Directors as members of the Board has also been conducted by the Chairman in 2006.
Held 10 3 3 5 Following the review, the Chairman is satisfied that each Attended of the Directors being put forward for re-election at the R A Lawson 10 3 forthcoming Annual General Meeting continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
D R Waxman 10 Mrs L M S Knox, who is the non-executive Director being put C W Eccleshare 10 3 3 5 forward for re-election, has completed one full three year term since appointment.
A procedure exists for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, under the guidance of the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Hays plc The Audit Committee meets the external auditors without Responsibilities and membership management being present.
The Audit Committee also of Board Committees considers the effectiveness of the external auditors annually.
The Board has agreed written terms of reference for the following committees: The terms of reference for all three Board Committees are published on the Companys website, www.
com, and Nomination Committee are also available from the Company Secretary at the The Nomination Committee identies and selects candidates in connection with any proposed new appointments of Registered Ofce.
Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments.
Mr R A Lawson chairs the Internal control Nomination Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox and Messrs C W The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal Eccleshare, P H Stoneham and B G Wallace were members control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness.
of the Committee throughout the year.
The Chief Executive A review has been completed for the year ended 30 June 2006 attends by invitation when appropriate.
in accordance with the recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to During the year under review, a new Finance Director was safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability of appointed to the Board.
In consultation with the Board, the information used both within the business and for publication.
Nomination Committee identied the type of candidate and Systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the experience needed and, using the services of a search agency, risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reviewed both internal and external candidates for the only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material consideration of the Board.
From the selection of candidates, misstatement or loss.
The key features of the internal control the Nomination Committee put forward a final recommendation systems which operated throughout the period covered by to the Board for approval.
the financial statements and up to the date of signing the Remuneration Committee accounts, are described below.
Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive Director, Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Messrs C W Eccleshare, of the business has been delegated to the Chief Executive P H Stoneham and B G Wallace were members of the and his Executive Committee, comprising the Finance Director, Committee throughout the year.
Divisional Managing Directors and Human Resources Director.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the The Company Secretary attends all Executive Committee Board, the remuneration and benets of the Chairman and meetings.
Clear levels of authority and terms of reference executive Directors of the Company and monitors the levels of exist for the Groups Executive Committee.
As far as possible, remuneration and benets of selected senior managers of the the business units are given autonomy, whilst operating within Group.
In formulating its remuneration policy, the Remuneration an established internal control environment as set out in the Committee gives full consideration to the matters set out in Group Policies and Procedures Manual.
This manual is Schedule A to the Code.
The Groups remuneration policy is designed to ensure that significant risks, investment decisions described in the Remuneration Report on page 27. and management issues are escalated to Board level at the earliest appropriate opportunity.
The Group Policies and The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of Procedures Manual is updated on an ongoing basis to reect non-executive Directors, after taking into account fees payable changes in procedures as and when they occur.
by comparable companies and after receiving external advice.
Certain specic administrative functions are controlled centrally Audit Committee by the Group.
Taxation, treasury, and insurance functions report The Audit Committee examines all financial statements and to the Board via the Finance Director.
The legal, property, preliminary announcements, considers the appropriateness compliance and health and safety functions report to the Board of accounting polices adopted and whether the financial via the Company Secretary.
Procedures are clearly dened to statements give a true and fair view.
The Audit Committee ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the risk considers the appointment of external auditors and the scope, prole of the organisation.
An overview of the Groups treasury materiality and results of their work.
It also oversees the Internal policy is set out on page 17.
Audit department and considers compliance with legal, regulatory, ethical and other issues.
The Group has a process for the identication, evaluation and reporting of major business risks.
Progress on the management Mr B G Wallace, an independent non-executive Director, of key issues is reported through the management structure to chairs the Audit Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox and Messrs executive management and to the Board.
C W Eccleshare and P H Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved The Board is satisfied that Mr B G Wallace has recent and at business and Group level.
This process includes the relevant financial experience.
identication and quantication of significant risks relating The external auditors normally attend Audit Committee to markets and operations.
Monthly performance is reported meetings and, at the request of the Audit Committee, the against budget and prior year.
The monthly management Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and other senior accounts analyse and explain variances against budget managers also attend.
and report on key indicators, with detailed explanations for In addition to reviewing the preliminary and interim statements variances and movements in forecasts provided to the Board.
before publication, the Committee reviews financial and control The Group has an internal audit department.
The resources issues throughout the Group.
These include tax and treasury of this department are augmented with independent expert issues, issues relating to the disposal of the Groups former external resources, wherever necessary, to review risk and businesses, internal audit reports and updates on the monitor compliance with Group policies and procedures.
recommendations of the internal audit department.
The Groups Regular reviews of the most important controls are undertaken whistleblowing procedure was reviewed during the year.
to ensure that key control objectives are achieved.
Reports The Committee reviews and considers whether any on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls appointment of the external auditors for non-audit services are regularly presented to executive management and to is appropriate, thereby ensuring that independence and the Audit Committee and recommendations are agreed upon objectivity are safeguarded.
com Corporate Governance continued Although the Group transformation is complete in all material respects, there is a level of residual risk.
Management continues to monitor and control any matters that arise.
The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through review by executive management reporting to the Board.
This is supplemented by reviews undertaken by the internal audit department of the controls in operation in the business units.
Relations with shareholders The executive Directors of the Company have a regular dialogue with analysts and large shareholders.
All non-executive Directors are aware of the programme of proposed visits and are invited to attend.
Investors have been offered the opportunity to meet the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman following the announcement of the 2006 results.
The Board reviews published broker reports and considers the issues raised within them.
The Groups advisers maintain a dialogue with major shareholders and after each investor roadshow compile a report of shareholders views on key issues and management performance of the report.
This report is subsequently considered by the Board.
In 2006 the Institutional Investor Magazine named Hays as the most shareholder friendly company in its sector, following a survey of portfolio managers.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
In addition, preliminary results are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced.
Also, at least twice a year, the Company hosts a teleconference for analysts and investors.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 November 2006 see pages 72 to 75 has been sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
At the meeting the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be available.
Each substantially separate issue is proposed in the Notice of Annual General Meeting as a separate resolution and there are separate resolutions relating to the Report and Accounts and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Furthermore, it is intended that the Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
