A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 Corporate Governance The company is committed to good standards of corporate Further details of the boards role in relation to the groups governance and, save as set out on page 34, has complied systems of internal control and risk management are given on throughout the year with the principles of corporate governance pages 33 and 34.
Descriptions of the specific responsibilities as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which which have been delegated to the principal board committees is appended to the the Listing Rules of the Financial Services are given on pages 30 to 32.
The following paragraphs, together with the report on directors remuneration on pages 35 to 40, provide At the end of 2006 the board comprised three executive a description of how the group has applied the principles of good directors, including the Chairman, and three non-executive governance set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the directors.
Biographical details of the directors are given on main and supporting principles.
All the non-executive directors are regarded by the board as independent.
The board does not consider that any Directors and board effectiveness relationships or circumstances exist that are likely to affect the The board is collectively responsible for the success of the judgment of any director.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to The board normally meets ten times a year, including at least be assessed and managed: to set strategic aims, ensure that the one meeting at a group operating business.
Comprehensive necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet its briefing papers are provided to all directors one week before objectives, and review management performance: to set the board meetings.
During the year there are sufficient groups values and standards: and to ensure that its obligations opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
directors without the executive directors being present should this be deemed appropriate.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the board include: All directors have direct access to the advice and services of setting group strategy and approving an annual budget and the Company Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that board medium term projections.
In addition, directors may, in reviewing operational and financial performance.
furtherance of their duties, take independent professional approving acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure.
advice, if necessary, at the companys expense.
reviewing the groups systems of financial control and risk management.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive ensuring that appropriate management development and The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are split.
Whilst succession plans are in place.
collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the group, reviewing the health and safety and environmental the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the board and performance of the group.
ensuring its effectiveness and the Group Chief Executive is approving appointments to the board and to the position of responsible for running the business.
Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to directors remuneration and the severance of directors service contracts.
The other significant current commitments of the Chairman are ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with listed in his biography on page 22 and the board is satisfied that shareholders.
his existing commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to the group.
The directors responsibility for the preparation of accounts is explained on page 44.
The directors confirmation that they consider it appropriate to prepare the accounts for 2006 on a going concern basis is given on page 28.
Headlam Group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued Induction and professional development Communicating with shareholders On joining the board, a director receives a comprehensive Meetings between directors, senior management and major induction pack which includes background information about the institutional shareholders are held during the year.
group and its directors, details of board meeting procedures, directors responsibilities, procedures for dealing in company The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive shares and a number of other governance-related issues.
The directors are encouraged to attend presentations to analysts and director meets with the Group Chief Executive to be briefed on shareholders, in particular the annual and interim results the general group strategy encompassing visits to group presentations.
External training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a director and the role and responsibilities of board The Group Finance Director reports twice a year to the board on committees, is arranged as appropriate.
Ongoing training is meetings with investors.
These reports include summaries provided as and when necessary and may be identified in annual prepared by the companys brokers on the markets reaction to performance reviews or on an ad hoc basis.
The suitability of results announcements and the subsequent meetings between external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary.
External brokers reports on the Training and development of directors in the year took various company are circulated to all directors.
forms, including visits to group businesses, both with the board as a whole and with the Group Chief Executive, attendance by All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders are certain directors at courses run by professional bodies and invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with solicitors, attendance at external training sessions and seminars directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Shareholders on matters relevant to members of the audit and remuneration at the meeting are advised as to the level of proxy votes committees and workshops run by external bodies on various received, including the percentage for and against each commercial and regulatory matters.
resolution together with the level of abstentions, following each vote on a show of hands.
The group seeks to present an accurate, Board appointments and performance evaluation objective and balanced picture in its annual and interim reports, There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the trading statements, results presentations and city announcements appointment of new directors to the board.
This is described in in a style and format which is appropriate to the intended the section on the nominations committee below.
Copies of annual and interim reports are available on executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term its website.
and, subject to review and re-election, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
Board Committees The terms of reference of the following board committees are During the year, using an in-house process the board conducted a available upon request.
formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, including the Audit Committee Chairman.
The process involved the completion of detailed The audit committee consists of the independent non-executive questionnaires in respect of each board member.
The output from directors which operates under the chairmanship of Dick Peters.
the questionnaires was compiled into a report prepared for the The committee monitors the integrity of the companys financial board at its meeting in December.
No actions were considered statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It necessary as a result of the evaluations.
The board intends to is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship conduct a further evaluation of its performance during 2007. between the company and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees, and makes Director re-election recommendations to the board on the appointment, All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first reappointment or dismissal of the external auditors.
It also AGM following their appointment by the board.
Under the articles reviews the groups systems of internal control and the processes of association of the company, each of the directors is required for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group on an to retire by rotation at least once every three years.
The committee periodically reviews its terms of the directors retiring and seeking re-election at an AGM are given reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the board any to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting.
changes required as a result of such review.
The audit committee A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Corporate Governance continued meets at least twice a year, including meetings before the annual reviewing the effectiveness of the 2005 external audit process and interim results announcements.
and recommending to the board, after due consideration, the reappointment of the incumbent external auditors at the AGM.
Members attendance record at meetings of the committee in 2006 is given on page 32.
The committee has authority to reviewing the application of the boards policy on non-audit investigate any matters within its terms of reference, to access work performed by the groups external auditors together with resources, to call for information and to obtain external the non-audit fees payable to the external auditors in 2005. professional advice at the cost of the company.
reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Only members of the committee are entitled to be present at groups 2006 accounts, which included key areas of focus, key meetings however the auditors, Chairman, Group Chief Executive risks on the accounts, confirmations of auditor independence and Group Finance Director attend when appropriate.
At each and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of meeting there is an opportunity for the external auditors to engagement for the audit.
discuss matters with the committee without any executive management being present.
The committee has independent reviewing reports from the external auditors on the groups access to the external auditors who have direct access to the systems of internal control in advance of the announcement of Chairman of the committee outside formal committee meetings.
the groups results for 2005 the internal report included a The audit committee has the specific task of keeping under summary of and commentary on the business risks and internal review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by control processes and reporting to the board on the results of the external auditors in order to ensure that objectivity and this review, and reviewing interim updates prior to the interim independence are maintained.
The external auditors have in place results.
processes to ensure their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that, where they do provide non-audit receiving regular updates from management on key financial services, their independence is not compromised.
They have control matters arising in the group.
written to the audit committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
reviewing the results of the performance evaluation questionnaire see page 30 as it related to the committee and During the 2006 financial period, the audit committee discharged approving certain consequential changes to the committees its responsibilities by: procedures.
reviewing the groups draft 2005 preliminary annual results Remuneration Committee announcement and financial statements and 2006 interim The remuneration committee consists of the independent nonresults statement prior to board approval, including executive directors which operated under the chairmanship of consideration of the significant accounting judgments Tom Anderson until 15 March 2007 and subsequently his contained therein, and reviewing the external auditors successor Mike OLeary.
The committee is responsible for detailed reports thereon.
approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration of the executive directors in accordance with a remuneration policy reviewing the groups trading update announcement prior to which is approved by the board.
It is also responsible for release at the AGM.
determining the terms upon which the service of executive directors is terminated, and for monitoring the remuneration of reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the groups senior managers just below board level.
Non-executive directors accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting fees are determined by the board as a whole and no director may standards and methods used to account for significant or influence their own remuneration benefits.
reviewing regularly the potential impact on the groups financial statements of certain matters such as impairment of asset values and employee benefits.
Headlam Group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued The committee meets periodically when required.
Members composition of the board, including the balance of skills, attendance record at meetings of the committee in 2006 is given knowledge and experience and the independence of the nonbelow.
Only the members of the committee are entitled to be executive directors, and makes recommendations to the board present at meetings however the Chairman, Group Chief Executive with regard to any changes.
The committee meets periodically and Group Finance Director attend when appropriate.
Members attendance record at meetings of the committee has access to such information and advice both from committee in 2006 is given below.
Only members of the within the group and externally, at the cost of the company, as it committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing consultants in be invited by the committee to attend.
The board has agreed the respect of executive directors remuneration.
procedures to be followed by the nominations committee in making appointments to the various positions on the board and The committees report on directors remuneration is set out in as Company Secretary.
The committee has access to such the remuneration report on page 38. information and advice both from within the group and externally, at the cost of the company, as it deems necessary.
Nominations Committee This may include the appointment of external executive search The nominations committee consists of the non-executive consultants, where appropriate.
The procedures referred to above directors and the Group Chief Executive under the Chairmanship were used in the appointment during 2006 of Mike OLeary as a of Mike OLeary except when the committee is dealing with the non-executive director.
This included an assessment of the time appointment of a successor as Chairman of the board when the commitment expected from the director.
Independent executive Senior Independent Director chairs the committee.
The search consultants were not used in connection with the committee leads the process for identifying and makes appointment.
recommendations to the board on candidates for appointment as directors of the company and as Company Secretary, giving full Directors attendance record consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of The attendance of directors at relevant meetings of the board the group.
It also makes recommendations to the board on the and of the remuneration, audit and nominations committees held composition and chairmanship of the audit and remuneration during 2006 was as follows: committees.
It keeps under review the structure, size and Scheduled Remuneration Audit Nominations board committee committee committee 9 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings Non-executive director Trevor Larman Chairman 4 4# 2 2# 1 1# 1 1# resigned as director and chairman 1 June 2006 Executive directors Graham Waldron Chairman 9 appointed Chairman on 1 June 2006 Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive 9 2 Stephen Wilson Group Finance Director 9 Non-executive directors Tom Anderson Senior Independent Director 9 4 3 2 Dick Peters 9 4 3 2 Mike OLeary 8 8# 4 3 1 1# appointed director on 10 March 2006 Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the committee Chairman.
# Actual attendance maximum number of meetings director could attend as a member.
A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Corporate Governance continued Risk Management and Internal Controls potential exposure to fraud.
The group has clearly defined In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull committee, the guidelines for capital expenditure and investment appraisal.
directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the These include annual plans, detailed appraisal and review groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements effectiveness.
The systems are designed to meet the groups when businesses are acquired.
Any acquisition or disposal of a particular needs and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks business needs formal board approval.
The board reports that full to which the businesses are exposed.
By their nature, they procedures are in place to achieve compliance with the internal provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against control aspects of the Code for the next financial period.
The board considers that the measures taken, including physical controls, segregation of duties The output of these reviews form an important element of and reviews by management, provide sufficient and objective management reporting and a process is in place for monitoring assurance.
the achievement of action plans together with the identification of new and emerging risks.
An ongoing process of risk During the year the board maintained its process of hierarchical management and internal control in accordance with the Code reporting and review in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the has been in place for the financial year under review and up to groups systems of financial and non-financial controls.
The group the date of this report.
The group views the careful management has developed a comprehensive series of operating and financial of risk as a key managerial activity in delivering business control procedures which are applied at all businesses and the opportunities.
The ethos of the group, delegation of group finance team performs annual reviews to verify that the responsibility and other control procedures together with businesses are complying with the prescribed operating and accounting policies and procedures are communicated through financial control procedures.
In addition, the board reviews the the group and laid out in the group procedures manual which is groups high level internal controls and risk management periodically updated.
Furthermore, the audit committee receives reports from the external auditor on matters identified in the course of The objective of the groups risk management processes is to its statutory audit work.
ensure sustainable development throughout the conduct of its business in a way which: These procedures provide a documented and auditable trail of accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed by satisfies its customers.
management for completeness and accuracy.
These procedures maintains proper relationships with suppliers and contractors.
allow for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher protects against losses from unforeseen causes.
levels of management through to the board.
Planned corrective provides a safe and healthy workplace.
actions are monitored for timely completion.
Having reviewed its develops environmentally friendly processes.
effectiveness, the directors are not aware of anything in the minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce groups systems of control during the period covered by this resources.
report and accounts which could render them ineffective.
There prevents pollution and waste.
were no changes in the groups internal controls or financial maintains a positive relationship with the communities in reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely which it does business.
to affect, the groups systems of internal control.
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at The group operates a comprehensive planning system, including all levels within the group.
The groups health and safety detailed reviews at all subsidiary undertakings, together with approach is supported by training programmes at operating formal reviews and approval of annual plans by the board.
Actual businesses, group health and safety rules and monitoring and performance is reported on a monthly basis measured against auditing to promote a high level of awareness and commitment.
plan and prior year including a detailed explanation of major Individual businesses are assessed on a periodic basis, and variances.
The company and its subsidiary undertakings have remedial solutions implemented where necessary.
Line implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and management retain the responsibility for completion of action accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the plans with progress being monitored and reported.
Headlam Group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued The audit committee meets at least twice a year and in The Code provision D. 1.1 states that the senior independent accordance with its terms of reference, reviews the effectiveness director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major of the groups systems of internal control.
In accordance with the shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a Code the board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major group internal audit function.
The board considers that the shareholders.
Whilst the opportunities exist, such meetings do control systems and procedures undertaken by the group are not currently take place, however the executive directors are fully adequately performed by management and therefore does not aware of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders and currently propose to introduce a group internal audit function but share these with the board twice a year following the will keep the matter under review.
announcement of interim and full year results.
Meetings are also held as deemed necessary throughout the period.
The integrity and competence of personnel is assessed during the recruitment process and monitored throughout employment.
This directors report has been approved by the board and signed Ethical standards expected of personnel are laid out in the group on its behalf by procedures manual.
Geoff Duggan Compliance with the Combined Code Company Secretary The group was in compliance with the relevant provisions of the 20 March 2007 Code throughout 2006, except with regard to the following aspects: The Code provision A3.2 states that except for smaller companies, at least half of the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
The Code provisions B2.1 and C3.1 state that the board should establish both an audit and a remuneration committee of at least three, or in the case of smaller companies, two members, who should all be independent non-executive directors.
The group complied with these provisions following the appointment of Mike OLeary as a non-executive director in March 2006 and who became a member of each of the remuneration, audit and nominations committees.
