Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 29 Audit Committee report The Corporate Governance Principles require that this Annual The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed by the Report separately describes the work of the Audit Committee Audit Committee during the period under review and referred to and how it discharges its responsibilities.
Terms of reference Composition The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters Hikmas Audit Committee comprises four members Breffni Byrne, indicated by the Combined Code and clearly set out its authority Michael Ashton, Sir David Rowe-Ham, and Ronald Goode, who and duties.
These can be found on the Companys website at joined the Committee following his appointment to the Board on www.
com and are summarised as follows: 12 December 2006 all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, and whose qualifications are set out on page 24. monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any The Committee is chaired by Breffni Byrne, who is a chartered other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial accountant and who is considered by the Board to have recent performance and review summary financial statements and and relevant financial experience.
No members of the Committee significant financial returns to regulators: have links with the Companys external auditors.
The Company review and challenge accounting policies and accounting therefore considers that it complies with the recommendations for significant or unusual transactions: of the Corporate Governance Principles regarding the composition of the Audit Committee.
The Committee Chairman review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his estimates and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in additional responsibilities.
financial reports: review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, Responsibilities UK Listing Authority and legal requirements including the The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its requirements of the Combined Code: responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audit and internal control, including reviewing the review arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in Companys annual financial statements, interim report and trading confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting updates, reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit or other matters: work undertaken by external auditors, and reviewing the monitor and review the internal financial controls and the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities, internal Groups overall risk identification and management systems: controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the internal audit function, its annual plan, its resources and external auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
access to information and its freedom from management The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual or other restrictions: report and accounts and the half-yearly reports remains with review and monitor managements responsiveness to the the Board.
findings and recommendations of the internal auditors: Meetings consider and make recommendations for appointment, The Audit Committee met eight times during the year under re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditor, review, with the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary and oversee the relationship with the external auditor: in attendance.
The Audit Committee reviewed the 2005 annual review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity report and accounts, the 2006 interim report and the trading of the external auditor accounting for relevant UK and statements issued during the year.
The Committee also reviewed professional regulatory requirements and approve their and approved the audit plans for 2006 for both internal and remuneration and terms of engagement: external auditors and the related scope of internal audit work to be undertaken.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external Groups internal controls and risk management processes and auditor of non-audit services, taking into account relevant the disclosures made in the annual report and accounts on these ethical guidance and potential conflicts of interest.
The Committee also reviewed its own term of reference and general effectiveness.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 30 Audit Committee report continued The Groups external auditors, Deloitte and Touche LLP, attended A policy has also been adopted whereby prior approval by the four Audit Committee meetings for the purposes of presenting Audit Committee is required before the recruitment of a senior their 2005 audit results and findings, the results of the 2006 member of the audit team or the recruitment of an employee interim review and their audit plan for 2006.
The internal auditors, of the external auditors to a senior finance position within Ernst & Young presented their 2006 audit plan and summary the Group.
findings of their work to the Audit Committee, who also reviewed The Group Whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the the response by management, proposed action plans and the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent overall effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In accordance Director to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee also met with the risk issues, internal control and other instances of allegedly Groups external auditor and internal auditor without executive improper behaviour by Group employees.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman met with the external Overview auditor at the principal subsidiaries in the United States, Jordan, The Audit Committee concludes that it has acted in accordance Portugal and with the auditors of JPI in Saudi Arabia following with its terms of reference and ensured the independence the acquisition of its outstanding shareholding during the year.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the The Audit Committee Chairman also met with Ernst & Young in late effectiveness of the external auditors and recommends to the 2006 to discuss the scope of the 2007 internal audit programme.
Board that they be reappointed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting Attendance of members at Committee meetings is shown on to answer questions on the work of the Committee.
page 26 of the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
External auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit, and has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services are outlined in Note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Audit-related services are services carried out by the external auditor by virtue of its role as auditor and principally include assurance-related work and accounting advice.
In line with best practice the external auditor does not provide services such as information system design and valuation or advocacy work which could be considered to be inconsistent with the audit role.
In addition audit related and non-related services provided by the external auditor in excess of certain monetary limits require prior approval by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor and is satisfied that the nature of these services has not compromised the auditors independence.
