Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 26 Corporate Governance Principles Combined code Each of Michael Ashton, Breffni Byrne, Ronald Goode and The Board is responsible for and committed to meeting the Sir David Rowe-Ham are independent Non-Executive Directors.
standards of good corporate governance set out in the Combined The fifth Non-Executive Director, Ali Al-Husry, who brings financial Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial experience to the Board as well as an in-depth knowledge of Reporting Council in July 2003 as revised the Combined Code the MENA region which is significant to the Groups business, as well as the corporate governance principles set out in the is not treated as being independent as a result of his close links Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services Authority the to the Darwazah family through Darhold, the Companys Markets Law together the Corporate Governance Principles.
This report, the Audit Committee report set out on pages The Non-Executive Directors who have diverse business 29 and 30 and the Remuneration Committee report set out on backgrounds, skills and experience bring independent judgement pages 33 to 42 describe how the Board applied the Corporate to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources, key Governance Principles during the year under review.
appointments, standards of conduct and other matters presented The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the to the Board.
During the year under review, the Company has Markets Law require the Group to report on its application of the complied with the Combined Code requirement that at least principles of good governance and the extent of its compliance half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Principles.
This statement provides details on how the Group has applied The senior independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham.
Board procedures and support The Board Board procedures afford the provision of timely, regular and The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
necessary management information to Directors to enable them The Boards role is to determine long-term strategy: to to fulfil their duties, with full board papers circulated in advance monitor the achievement of business objectives: to ensure of Board and Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary is the Group has adequate available resources: to promote good charged with ensuring good information flow within the Board corporate governance: and to ensure that the Group meets it and its Committees, so that adequate information is provided to responsibilities to shareholders, employees, customers and other the Board before making decisions.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards consideration and decision.
This includes approval The Directors are able to obtain independent professional advice of strategic plans, approval of financial statements, the annual at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as budget, material investment decisions, acquisitions and Directors.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and divestments, and review of the effectiveness of the Groups services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring system of internal control.
that good board procedures are followed and for advising the Board through its Chairman on all good corporate governance Except for the matters formally reserved for the Board, and in matters to maintain compliance throughout the Group.
accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary has delegated responsibility for the management of the Group, is a matter reserved for the Board.
through the Chief Executive, to executive management.
Board meetings Composition of the Board During the year under review, the Board met on nine occasions.
A majority of the Board comprises Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary attended all Board Meetings and The Board currently comprises of the Chairman, who is also Committee Meetings.
A table showing attendance at these the Chief Executive, the Executive Vice-Chairman and five meetings is set out below.
The names of the Directors and their Meeting biographical details are set out on pages 24 to 25.
The Chief record Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive and the Executive Vice-Chairman were appointed to Number of meetings 9 8 8 5 the Board on the incorporation of the Company on 8 September 2005.
Save for Ronald Goode, who joined the Board on Samih Darwazah 9 12 December 2006, each of the Non-Executive Directors joined Mazen Darwazah 9 5 the Board prior to the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange, on 14 October 2005.
Ali Al-Husry 8 Michael Ashton 8 8 8 5 The Company combines the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, both these roles being held by Samih Darwazah, the Breffni Byrne 9 8 8 founder of the Group.
David Rowe-Ham 9 8 8 5 The Board believes that notwithstanding the Combined Codes Ronald Goode 1 guidance that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be combined, at this important time in the Groups Ronald Goode was appointed at the final meeting of the year.
development, and following its transition from private to public company in late 2005, the knowledge of the Groups business and the experience in guiding it to its current position brought to the Board by Mr Darwazah justifies his holding both positions.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 27 The Directors maintain a close dialogue between board meetings, presentations at investor conferences.
In 2006 the Company also ensuring that, amongst other things, the Non-Executive Directors held a site visit for investors and analysts at its manufacturing are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups facility in Portugal.
Visits by each of the Non-Executives to the Groups main The Chairman, Executive Vice-Chairman, Chief Financial Officer facilities in the MENA region, the United States and Europe help and other senior corporate executives have all participated in this to reinforce the Boards understanding of key business issues.
investor programme during the period under review.
Board performance evaluation The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is through All Directors other than Ronald Goode were elected by the publication of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting, held on and Interim Results, together with the opportunity to question 25 May 2006.
Ronald Goode will be subject to election by the Board and Committees at the Annual General Meeting.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 June The Company maintains a website www.
All Directors are subject to re-election thereafter at intervals financial and other information which is updated regularly.
of no more than three years.
Non-Executive Directors are Additionally the Company presents a balanced view of the Groups appointed for an initial term of three years, which can be renewed performance and prospects through the release of appropriate and extended for not more than two further three-year terms.
press announcements and other updates.
The Chairman believes that the Non-Executive Directors The Board is kept updated on the views of shareholders and the continue to bring a balance of skill and experience to the Board, market in general through the feedback from the investor meeting and have shown themselves to discharge their roles effectively programme and results presentations.
Analysts reports are and with commitment to the strategic aims of the Group.
circulated to the Board members together with monthly Investor Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on Relations reports.
The senior independent Director has undertaken page 24. to be available to shareholders if they have a concern that cannot be appropriately addressed through the Chairman Chief Executive.
As required by the Combined Code, an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Chairman, the Committee Board Committees Chairmen and the individual Non-Executive Directors was In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance undertaken during the period under review.
and in compliance with the Combined Code and the Markets Law, The Non-Executive Directors, led by the senior independent the Board maintains three Committees the Audit Committee, Director, met to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The Group of the Chairman.
In addition to the matters set out overleaf in also has an Executive Committee comprising the Executive respect of all Directors, the review addressed effectiveness of Directors and senior management of the Group, and an Ethics leadership, setting the Board agenda, communication with Committee, which draws its members from the Board and the shareholders and internal communication and Board efficiency.
senior management of the Group.
Discussions on the performance of the Board, each of its Each of the three Combined Code Committees has terms of Committees and each Non-Executive Director were also undertaken reference, which were reviewed during the year.
Copies are by the Chairman with each Committee Chairman and each published on the corporate website at www.
These discussions focused on Board and Their Chairmen give reports of the Committees business to Committee performance and membership, timetabling, internal the Board.
and external support, the quality and timely availability of Nomination Committee relevant Board information and the contribution of, preparation The Nomination Committee consists of two independent for and performance by individual Directors at Board and Non-Executive Directors Sir David Rowe-Ham Committee Committee meetings.
Chairman and Michael Ashton and the Executive Vice-Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
The majority of the members Directors service arrangements and terms of appointment of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements and an independent Non-Executive Director holds the Chairmanship Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are contained of the Committee, and the Company has therefore complied with in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 33 to 42. the requirements of the Corporate Governance Principles.
Directors remuneration The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning Details of the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive and for ensuring that all appointments to the Board are made on Directors are contained in the Remuneration Committee report objective criteria.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the set out on pages 33 to 42.
Committee is required to take into account the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in making its decisions and is able to Dialogue with shareholders use external search firms or open advertising to compile shortlists Communication with shareholders is a high priority and in addition of candidates for the Board.
It is also charged with reviewing to presentations at the time of the release of the annual and the appropriateness of the size, structure and composition of interim results, the Company has undertaken a programme of the Board.
meeting with institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe, the The Nomination Committee met five times during the year, United States and the MENA region.
This programme includes culminating in the recommendation of the appointment of but is not limited to one-on-one meetings, conference calls and a new Non-Executive Director.
In discharging their responsibilities, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 28 Corporate Governance Principles continued the Committee appointed an independent search firm and used The key elements are as follows: other sources to identify relevant candidates, compiled a shortlist, An organisation structure with clear operating and reporting and following a process of interviews conducted by members of procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties and the Committee, made a recommendation to the Board in respect delegated authority: of the appointment.
Annual budgets and long-term business plans for the Group Remuneration Committee that identify risks and opportunities which are reviewed and The Remuneration Committee consists of the Companys approved by the Board: four independent Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton Committee Chairman, Breffni Byrne, Sir David Rowe-Ham A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting which and Ronald Goode, who joined the Committee following includes regular comparison of financial results and key his appointment to the Board on 12 December 2006. performance indicators against budget, along with The Remuneration Committee therefore consequently management comments: complies with the Corporate Governance Principles A clearly defined process for controlling capital expenditure membership requirements.
including appropriate authorisation levels, which is approved by The Committee met eight times during the year with full the Board on an ongoing basis: attendance.
The Committee is responsible for setting and Written policies on procedures for all material functional areas reviewing executive remuneration and that of the Company with specific responsibility allocated to individual managers.
Secretary and is able to take external advice from consultants when required.
A full report on the role of the Remuneration During the year under review, Ernst & Young continued its Committee is set out in the Remuneration Committee Report management and execution of the Groups internal audit function on pages 33 to 42. on a global basis under a three year contract entered into in 2005.
This involves a risk-driven approach to internal audit which was Audit Committee overseen by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit process The Audit Committee consists of four independent Non-Executive focuses on reviewing areas of business risk, internal controls and Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton, systems in the Companys main subsidiaries and at the corporate Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode, who joined the level, with regular reports of its findings to the Audit Committee.
Committee following his appointment as a Director on Ernst & Young have direct access to the Audit Committee and the 12 December 2006.
The Audit Committee consequently Board Chairman.
complies with the Corporate Governance Principles membership requirements.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the Markets Law, a review of the The Committee met eight times during the year with full effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls was attendance.
A full report of the role of the Audit Committee conducted during the year.
and the details of how it carried out its duties is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 29 and 30.
Insurance Executive Committee The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and The Group also has an Executive Committee, made up of the Officers insurance in respect of action taken against Directors.
Executive Directors and other senior management of the Group, Additionally, in accordance with the Companys Articles of which oversees the day-to-day operation of the Groups major Association, to the extent permitted by law, directors are operating subsidiaries, implements the decisions of the Board, granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities and makes recommendations for the Boards approval.
incurred as a result of their office.
Ethics Committee Compliance with the Corporate Governance Principles The Ethics Committee is chaired by Michael Ashton and draws During the year under review, the Company applied the principles its members from the Board Michael Ashton, Ronald Goode set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the and Mazen Darwazah and senior management across the main principles and the supporting principles, save in respect of Group.
The Ethics Committee aims to monitor ethical behaviour Code provisions A2.1, A2.2 pursuant to which the Code requires and integrity across all areas of the Groups business.
Thus, the that the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, Committee is responsible for the review and approval of with an independent Chairman leading the Board.
For the reasons statements and policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles outlined above, the founder of the Group, Mr Samih Darwazah, within the Group.
Internal control The Company also applied the Corporate Governance Principles The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups required by the Markets Law.
The above disclosure is also made in systems of internal control and risk management and has applied respect of the Companys obligations under Article 20 of the the relevant principles of the Combined Code in establishing a Markets Law.
continuous process of identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the Going concern effectiveness of these systems on an ongoing basis.
The system of The Board believes that the Group has adequate resources to internal control provides reasonable but not absolute assurance continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, against material misstatement or loss.
it will adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
