22 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance Compliance with the Code In accordance with the Combined Code at least half the Board, The Company has complied throughout the year with the excluding the Chairman and Brian McLaughlin, comprise provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined independent Non-Executive Directors.
As noted above, for the Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code except period 1 August to 31 December 2005 this was not the case.
for the period from 1 August to 31 December 2005 when, on a Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three strict interpretation of Rule A.
3 of the Combined Code, the Board years and the Articles of Association include a requirement comprised of more Executive than independent Non-Executive that all Directors submit themselves for re-election by the Directors.
This occurred on the appointment of Steve Knott as shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following an Executive Director, the voluntary resignation of Robin Miller appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
In the and the subsequent appointment of David Kappler as interim 2004 05 financial year the period of appointment for each of Chairman.
On 31 December 2005 Brian McLaughlin ceased Roy Brown, David Kappler, Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty to be an Executive Director, becoming a non-independent was extended by a further period of three years to 22 April 2008.
Non-Executive Director, thereby restoring the equality of Details of those Directors who will stand for re-election Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found The following paragraphs, together with the Directors on page 35.
Each of these Directors has been subject to Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 32, provide a evaluation, as indicated below, and continues to demonstrate description of how the Combined Code has been applied.
commitment to the role and be an effective member of the Board.
Accordingly the Board believes these Directors should The Board be re-elected.
As at the end of the year under review the Board comprised four On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a formal independent Non-Executive Directors, one non-independent induction and thereafter receive further guidance and training Non-Executive Director, the Chairman, and three Executive as and when required.
There are also procedures for the Directors being the Chief Executive officer, the Group Finance Directors to take independent professional advice at the Director and the Managing Director of HMV UK and Ireland.
cost of the Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have The biographical details of the members of the Board are set access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary out on pages 20 and 21.
The Board considers that each of who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Roy Brown, Mark McCafferty, and Lesley Knox are independent.
procedures and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
Notwithstanding the interim chairmanship by David Kappler, The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a the Board also consider Mr Kappler to be independent.
matter for the Board as a whole.
In addition the Board determined that Carl Symon was independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman Performance evaluation on 1 February 2006.
Brian McLaughlin, who retired as an The Board has an established process for evaluating the employee from the Company on 31 December 2005 and on individual Directors, the Board as a whole and each of the Board 1 January 2006 became a Non-Executive Director, is not Committees.
This evaluation process involves an objective and deemed to be independent.
comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and any development plans for the Whilst the Board is collectively responsible for the Board.
The evaluation process for the Board as a whole and for success of the Company, the Chairman manages the Board each of its Committees was conducted by means of detailed to ensure that: questionnaires completed by all Directors.
The results of the the Company has appropriate objectives and an evaluation of each of the Board Committees were reviewed effective strategy: and discussed by each of the relevant Committees and then there is a Chief Executive officer with a team to implement reported to the Board as a whole, together with the results of the strategy: the appraisal of the Board itself.
A number of recommendations there are procedures in place to inform the Board of were agreed for the Board and its Committees and these will be performance against objectives: and implemented during 2006. the Company is operating in accordance with the The Chairman appraises the performance of the principles of corporate governance.
individual Board members through discussion with all Directors The Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on individually.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible page 21.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint for the evaluation of the Chairman and the views of the other on the Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Company.
The results of the performance The Senior Independent Director, who is also Deputy evaluation for each of the Directors and the Chairman were Chairman, acts as a channel of communication for shareholders reported to the Board.
The development plans for the Board and who have concerns if those concerns have not been resolved the performance evaluation process will be reviewed annually.
through the usual channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive The Non-Executive Directors met on several occasions officer or Group Finance Director.
He also oversees senior without the Executive Directors being present during the executives remuneration and remuneration policy as Chairman year under review, and met once without the presence of of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief Executive officer has the Chairman.
overall responsibility for running the Companys business.
Board Committees The Board has a schedule of matters specically reserved to it There are three principal Board Committees, each of which for decision.
These include the following major matters: regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear terms approval of any material investments, capital expenditure, of reference which can be found on the Companys website acquisitions and disposals by Group companies: www.
The terms of reference of each of the substantial alteration in the general nature of Board Committees were reviewed and amended in 2004. the business: Each Committee has and will keep under review its terms of approval of the operating plan and the three year reference and its effectiveness and make recommendations to strategic plan: the Board of any appropriate changes.
The chairman of each of setting of financial and dividend policies: the Board Committees will be available to answer shareholders consideration of interim and final dividends: questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
change of auditors, accounting policies and practices: changes to the share capital of the Company: appointment and removal of all Directors and senior management: and corporate governance and corporate social responsibility of the Company.
Annual report and accounts 2006 HMV Group plc 23 Audit Committee to the Committee on 23 April 2002.
Robin Miller was Chairman The Audit Committee as at the end of the financial year, of the Committee until his resignation from the Company on comprised Lesley Knox Chairman, Roy Brown and Mark 28 July 2005.
From that date, up to and including 31 January McCafferty, all of whom were appointed to the Committee 2006, David Kappler was Chairman of the Committee.
David Kappler was Chairman of the Committee The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
until his appointment as interim Chairman of the Board on The Committee meets as and when required and during the 28 July 2005 when he stepped down from the Committee period under review the Committee met on five occasions.
and Lesley Knox was appointed Chairman in his stead.
These meetings were to evaluate the Committees own The Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director, performance and to deal with succession planning issues.
the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Operating officer and the Members attendance at meetings of the Committee external auditors were invited and attended meetings of the during the period under review is set out below.
is responsible for identifying and nominating executive and Lesley Knox, Chairman of the Committee, has recent non-executive candidates for approval by the Board to ll relevant financial experience, having a finance and investment vacancies as and when they arise and to put in place succession management background.
The Board believes that the other plans for Directors and other senior managers.
The Committee Committee members have relevant experience to serve on has access to such information and advice both from within this Committee.
the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems The Committee is required to meet a minimum of three appropriate.
External consultants are used to assist in identifying times a year and members attendance at the Committee can suitable external candidates based on a written specication for be found below.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the each appointment.
Committee members prepare a shortlist of external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the candidates for consideration by the Board.
The final candidate Committee outside the formal Committee meetings.
is then subject to formal nomination by the Committee and approval by the Board.
In addition, the Committee will review The main duties of the Committee are as follows: the Board structure, size and composition and from time to time i monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the make any relevant recommendations to the Board.
financial statements: ii the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness Remuneration Committee and independence of the external auditors: The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least twice iii approval of the scope of the Companys risk management a year.
As at the end of the year under review, the Committee programme and review of the risk management process: comprised Roy Brown Chairman, Lesley Knox and Mark iv reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal McCafferty, all of whom were appointed to the Committee on audit function: and 23 April 2002.
David Kappler was a member of the Committee v to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good until his appointment as interim Chairman of the Company business practices throughout the Group.
No person other than the members of the During the period under review, the Committee met on three Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but others may occasions in order to review a wide range of financial matters, be invited by the Committee to attend.
No Director is present including annual and half year profit gures, financial statements, when the Committee considers matters relating to him or acts in trading statements and other regulatory information disclosed matters relating to him.
to the public and to conduct a review of the internal audit The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of function and to receive regular reports from internal audit, service and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors before making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
and other senior managers of the Group in accordance with a remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is Nomination Committee also responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and The Nomination Committee, as at the end of the year under the terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is review, comprised Carl Symon, who was appointed Chairman of terminated, having regard to a severance policy adopted by the the Committee on 1 February 2006, Roy Brown, David Kappler, Board.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty, all of whom were appointed report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 25 to 32.
A record of members attendance at the Board and other Committee meetings is as follows: Board attendance chart Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Roy Brown 19 20 3 3 6 6 5 5 Neil Bright 20 20 3 3 1 Alan Giles 20 20 3 5 2 David Kappler 20 20 2 2 2 2 2 5 5 Lesley Knox 20 20 3 3 6 6 5 5 Steve Knott 16 16 1 Mark McCafferty 18 20 3 3 6 6 5 5 Brian McLaughlin 20 20 3 2 Robin Miller 3 3 2 2 1 1 Carl Symon 8 8 1 2 2 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
Not a Committee member but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
Mr Kappler attended two meetings as a member of the Remuneration Committee, and after he ceased to be a member of that Committee, he was invited to attend a further two meetings.
All instances of non-attendance were in respect of additional meetings arranged at short notice.
Internal control designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to The Board attaches considerable importance to, and achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or internal control and risk management and carries out regular loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk reviews of their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is management process and significant risk issues are referred 24 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued to the Board for consideration.
The Board confirms it has Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, reviewed the Groups system of internal controls including the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet with private financial, operational and compliance controls as well as risk investors at the Companys general meetings, where management, and that these accord with the guidance on shareholders are invited to ask questions and express views internal controls set out in the Internal Control: Revised on the Companys business.
The views of shareholders are Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the reported to the Board as and when appropriate.
Financial Reporting Council in October 2005, and that such controls have been in place during the year under review and Accountability and audit up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and and that there are satisfactory ongoing processes for balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statement of faced by the Group.
The systems of internal control and the the Chairman and the Business and Financial Review on processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of pages 4 to 19. those systems include: The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors with a view to conrming Group that, in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one an internal audit function which carries out a programme hand and value for money on the other has been kept of audits covering the management of significant corporate appropriately in balance.
The external auditors have in place risks and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the processes to ensure their independence is maintained including Board on the effectiveness of key internal controls: safeguards to ensure that where they provide non-audit services detailed risk registers which describe the significant risks their independence is not threatened.
In this context, the Audit and control strategies in each area of the business and Committee considers that it is appropriate for the external which are reviewed annually: auditors to provide to the Group tax advice and other accounting a comprehensive system of financial reporting which services, including those in connection with supporting and includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting reporting on financial representations in public documentation.
with rolling forecasts, and half year and annual During the year under review the auditors were used for tax reporting to enable the Group to meet its public advice work and the Company foresees using the auditors for financial reporting requirements: this advice in the future.
In addition, the auditors undertook due regular performance monitoring with remedial action diligence work in respect of the acquisition of Ottakars plc.
taken where necessary: The provision of other services is considered on an ad hoc regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid to the auditors in reserved to the Board for decision: the year, for audit and non-audit services, are given on page 47. established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring major projects: Statement of Directors responsibilities a policies and procedures manual which sets out, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report inter alia, authority limits and guidelines for capital and the financial statements in accordance with applicable expenditure, which include annual budgets and appraisal United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting and review procedures.
All operating businesses have to Standards as adopted by the European Union.
confirm compliance with the manual on an annual basis: The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for certain centralised functions that are staffed by each financial year which present fairly the financial position of appropriately qualied individuals who draw on external the Company and of the Group and the financial performance professional advice.
These functions include finance, and the cash ows of the Company and of the Group for that tax, treasury, management information systems, legal, period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors company secretarial and internal audit: and are required to: clearly dened organisational structures and appropriate i select suitable accounting policies and then apply delegated authorities.
them consistently: ii present information, including accounting policies, in a Audit Committee manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and approving the scope of the annual Group risk understandable information: and: management programme: iii provide additional disclosures when compliance with the reviewing the results of the risk identication process: specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users providing input on risks and internal controls into the to understand the impact of particular transactions, other annual Board strategy discussions: events and conditions on the entitys financial position reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and financial performance: and process and discussing significant risk issues with iv state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject the Board: to any material departures disclosed and explained in the considering reports from internal and external audit financial statements.
on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting reviewing the internal audit and external audit work records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, plans: and the financial position of the Company and of the Group and at the year end, before producing the Statement of enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply Directors Responsibilities in the Annual Report and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Accounts, the Board, through the Audit Committee, They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the considers reports generated from the internal and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention external auditors on any major problems that have and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern Relations with shareholders The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider The Board places high importance on maintaining good to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to relationships with both institutional and private investors continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
and ensures, through its investor relations programme, For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis that shareholders are kept informed of significant Group in preparing the financial statements.
Shareholders can access further information on By order of the Board the Group via the Companys website at www.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly Elaine Marriner Company Secretary with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Major institutional 5 July 2006 shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with the
