Corporate Governance Homeserve complied throughout the year with the provisions During the year the Board was led by Brian Whitty, the Executive set out in the Combined Code published by the UK Financial Chairman, who also served as a member of the Boards Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except where Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly fide ned in a written The manner in which the Company applies the principles of good speci cation agreed by the Board and which makes clear the governance contained in the Code is described in the appropriate division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman parts of this Report and Accounts.
Thus the application by the and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of Company of the Codes principles relating to remuneration the Board, effective communication between executive and matters at pages 50 to 61 should be read in conjunction with the non-executive directors and the general progress and long term statement below.
A review of the Groups position and prospects development of the Group.
His executive responsibilities include is set out in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives major strategic acquisitions, relations with shareholders and those Review and Financial Review on pages 2 to 30. relating to property, legal and governance matters.
The Board The Board has established a formal procedure for directors The Board of directors leads and controls the Company by wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice holding at least nine meetings a year at which its current and and all members of the Board have access to the advice and forecast performance is reviewed and monitored.
Regular services of the Company Secretary.
reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a The day-to-day running of Homeserves business is delegated to timely manner with the information necessary to make informed an Executive Board, also led by Brian Whitty, and which includes judgments.
In addition, the Board holds regular meetings to Richard Harpin, Chief Executive, Andrew Belk, Group Finance devise and discuss the Companys medium and long term Director and Ian Carlisle, Chief Executive of the Emergency strategic focus and management development strategy.
Other members of the Executive Board, together informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to with autobiographical details, are listed on pages 40 and 41. apprise directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Richard Harpin, the Chief Executive, is responsible for leading In accordance with the provisions of its Articles of Association business development, operational issues and marketing.
He is and with the Code, each director is subject to election by also responsible for all operational public relations and tactical the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting acquisitions.
immediately following his appointment and is subject to reelection at least every three years thereafter.
During the year, three independent non-executives with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, provided the Board The Board has a Schedule of Matters speci cally reserved to it with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of John Maxwell served as the Companys independent senior the various committees to which it has delegated its authority non-executive director.
The Board is currently in the process of in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include the selecting a further independent non-executive director.
recommendation or approval of dividends, the approval of final and interim financial statements, major financial commitments, the acquisitions of signi cant companies or businesses, appointments to the Board and its committees, the Companys future strategy and its internal controls.
It also provides that the Board receive regular updates from the chairmen of its committees.
Homeserve plc 45 Corporate Governance The Board actively encourages all directors to deepen their Its duties include the review of the size, structure and knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear composition required of the Board, and succession planning for understanding of the Group and the environment in which directors and other senior managers.
During the year, these it operates: and has recently adopted a formal policy on the duties were undertaken by the Board itself.
induction and training of directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee are and have the opportunity to receive formal training.
During the available on the Companys website.
year, the Groups non-executive directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and have visited Audit Committee several of the operating businesses.
Further training for directors The Audit Committee is chaired by John Maxwell, a chartered is available and offered as appropriate.
accountant and the senior independent non-executive director.
It comprises only independent non-executive directors: Barry The Board has adopted a formal process for reviewing its own Gibson and Justin Jewitt being its other members.
effectiveness and that of its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the non-executive The Committee meets regularly to review the preliminary and directors were held without the executive directors, and at least interim results before they are presented to the Board, to receive once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate reports from the Companys internal and external auditors and his performance.
The evaluation process, which was facilitated to make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies.
by external advisers, was completed at the beginning of the Its primary duties include the monitoring, on behalf of the Board, year, comprising one-on-one meetings to discuss the existing of compliance with and the effectiveness of the Companys and future needs of the Board, its composition and the skills of accounting and internal control systems.
The Committees duties its members.
The results of the process were reviewed by the also include agreeing audit strategy, monitoring the scope and whole Board in April 2005 and a further review is planned to take results of the Companys annual audit and the independence and place early in the 2006 7 financial year.
The external auditors and the Group Finance Director are invited but are not entitled to attend all Committees meetings.
The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain speci c responsibilities and each of which The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
fees paid in respect of such services.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters Nomination Committee or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the executive The Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations directors.
to the Board on the appointment of directors, is chaired by Brian Whitty and also comprises Barry Gibson, Justin Jewitt and The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available John Maxwell, independent non-executive directors.
Other on the Companys website.
The Committee has also agreed and members of the Board may be invited, but are not entitled, to implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own attend its meetings.
The Committee draws on the advice of such effectiveness and that of the external audit process: the results of professional advisers as it considers necessary and, during the year, the review were considered by the Committee in March 2006. met to consider the possible appointment of a further director.
Report & Accounts 46 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for the The Committee is chaired by Justin Jewitt.
It comprises only Companys Board.
independent non-executive directors, Barry Gibson and John Maxwell being its other members.
Short biographies of each of the directors, including their membership of the Boards Committees outlined above, may be The Remuneration Committees responsibilities include found on pages 40 and 41. determining the Groups overall remuneration strategy and the remuneration packages of the executive directors and other Relationships with shareholders members of the Executive Board, after having consulted with the The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to Chairman and Chief Executive and having received professional maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chairman advice from remuneration consultants.
The Committee is also and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional responsible for approving the grant and exercise of executive investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance long-term incentive arrangements.
In determining remuneration and all shareholders have access to the senior independent nonpolicy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as executive director, who is available to discuss any questions which it sees t, and regularly monitors both the policies of comparator investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
companies and current market practice, in order to ensure The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual that the packages provided are suf cient to attract and retain General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either executive directors of the necessary quality.
in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact Homeserve direct, either through its The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the website or by telephoning its of ces.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness: the results of the review were considered by the Committee in March 2006.
Attendance at meetings The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees by each member during the year.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Number of meetings held 9 3 5 1 Meetings attended B H Whitty 9 - - 1 R D Harpin 9 - - - A J Belk 8 - - - I Carlisle 9 - - - J H Maxwell 9 3 5 1 J A S Jewitt 9 3 5 1 J M B Gibson 9 2 5 1 Homeserve plc 47 Corporate Governance The Board also recognises the need to ensure that all directors The Groups management operates a formal process for are fully aware of the views of major shareholders about the identifying, managing and reporting on operational and Group.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses, are circulated to all directors upon publication, monthly analyses whereby each of the risks identi ed is reviewed in detail by of the Companys shareholder register are made available to the executive directors on a regular basis.
Executive Board the Board and written feedback from shareholders and analysts, meetings are held on a monthly basis at which the Groups prepared by the Groups brokers and public relations advisers is senior managers report on the progress of the companies provided to all directors after every signi cant corporate event or discipline for which they are responsible and share best and at least twice a year.
Going concern A clearly fide ned organisation structure is in place with clear The directors con rm that, after reviewing the Groups budget for lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
2006 7, the three year operating plan and projected cash ows, The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate for individual managers, with all material transactions being resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable approved by the Board.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed Internal controls and approved by the Board.
As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function which relating to internal controls, having implemented the procedures reports directly to the Audit Committee and a formal audit necessary to comply with the guidance issued in September 1999 plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
the Turnbull Committee Report and to report in line with that guidance.
Financial results and cash ows, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal monthly basis, with variances being identi ed to initiate action control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is to mitigate them.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee has adopted a formal whistleblowing There is an established internal control framework in place, which policy for employees who wish to raise any issues of concern is continually reviewed and updated taking into account the relating to the Companys activities on a con dential basis.
changing nature of the Groups operations.
This process has been in place for the whole of the year and up to the date of approval A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk of the Annual Report and Accounts.
management processes to any signi cant new business acquired or begun by the Company immediately upon The key elements of the system operated by the Group to acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to identify, evaluate and manage signi cant risks include the following: con rm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
Report & Accounts 48 Corporate Governance At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews a register summarising the signi cant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: At the end of the year, the executive directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit Committee and the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee reviews reports of the executive directors and the internal and external auditors, on any issues identi ed as having a potentially substantial impact on the results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers signi cant to the Board for its consideration.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all such meetings.
