Corporate Governance Report In this section: Statement of compliance During 2006, and having regard to the Organisational structure The Board is committed to high standards changes in the Galiform business, the Committees of corporate governance and supports Nominations Committee continued the Relations with shareholders the principles of the Combined Code and process of refreshing the composition Risk and internal control complies with the provisions set out of the Board.
Four appointments have Going concern in section 1 of the Code.
been made during the period and it was Compliance with Combined Code announced on 6 March 2007 that Michael Directors responsibilities Organisational structure Wemms had succeeded Lesley Knox as Directors indemnity and insurance The Board reviews, as part of its continuing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Attendance at meetings evaluation procedures, the appropriateness and Angus Cockburn had succeeded of its organisational structure.
The Tony fide Nunzio as Chairman of the Audit structure is required for planning, Committee.
Mr fide Nunzio was Senior executing, controlling and monitoring independent director throughout the year the business in a manner, which seeks to and Michael Wemms assumed that role achieve the Groups objectives taking into on 6 March 2007. account the interests of all stakeholders.
The Board has identified the following The primary purpose of the Board is non-executive directors as independent at to ensure that the needs and aspirations all relevant times in accordance with the of all stakeholders are satisfied.
The definition of independence contained Board seeks to achieve this through the in the Combined Code in the case of development of a balanced strategy which new Chairman, this test is required to be serves the interests of the stakeholders.
satisfied as at the date of appointment : The Boards role is then to set the context for the businesses, to create suitable Will Samuel Chairman structures for implementing the strategies Angus Cockburn and to ensure the coordination, alignment Ian Smith and motivation of resource.
The Board then Peter Wallis assesses the results of these actions and Michael Wemms sets revised priorities where appropriate to service the needs of the stakeholders.
Non-executive directors are appointed for The Board reviews annually the schedule an initial term of three years, subject to of matters reserved for its decision.
Their During 2006, the Board held 18 formal letters of appointment are available for Board meetings and held a number of other inspection at the Annual General Meeting meetings and teleconferences for the and on request.
A Committee appointed by purposes of reviewing progress on the the Board comprising the Chairman and many important projects and issues Chief Executive Officer agrees the fees affecting the Company during the year.
The The Board currently comprises the Remuneration Committee determines the non-executive Chairman, Will Samuel, Chairmans fee.
All directors are subject to who succeeded Ian Peacock in October reappointment by shareholders at the first 2006, three executive directors and four annual general meeting following their independent non-executive directors.
appointment by the Board and thereafter at The Chief Executive Officer is Matthew intervals of no more than every three years Ingle who has held that position since by rotation under the articles of association.
Mark Robson joined the The separate roles of the Chairman and Board as Chief Financial Officer in April Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
Tony fide Nunzio was the Deputy The Chairman is responsible for leadership Chairman and Senior Independent Director of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in throughout 2006.
Gerard Hughes is Group all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, Commercial Director and was appointed to and the Chief Executive Officer for the the Board on 6 March 2007.
Will Samuels satisfactory execution of the strategy other commitments include his positions as agreed by the Board, working with his Vice Chairman of Lazard Bros & Co Ltd. fellow executive directors and other Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc and executives.
Appropriate induction as non-executive director of Edinburgh described below in the section on the Investment Trust plc and Ecclesiastical Nominations Committee and training is Insurance Group plc.
Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 30 to 32.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 43 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board holds regular meetings and financial statements represent a true assisted in its work by its appointed firm receives accurate and timely information.
and fair reflection of this position.
of professional advisers, the Chairman, The Board conducts its procedures for It also assists the Board in ensuring the Chief Executive Officer, the Company evaluation of its performance, including its that appropriate accounting policies, Secretary and the Companys internal Committees, through a continuing internal controls and compliance Human Resources function.
Full details on programme that extends over more than procedures are in place and monitors the the Committees work are contained in the one period.
During 2006, the programme management of Risk and the effectiveness Remuneration report.
This report includes was scheduled to concentrate on reviews of the internal audit function by reviewing details on remuneration policy, terms of of the effectiveness of the Committees its work schedule and reports.
In particular, appointment, and the remuneration of of the Board.
Towards the end of the year, it undertakes regular reviews of internal executive directors.
Angus Cockburn and Michael Wemms controls to enable reports to be made As reported last year, the policy of were appointed with a view, after to the Board to enable it to review the the Company had been changed so as to appropriate transition periods, to their effectiveness of the Groups system of ensure that all executive directors service succeeding as Chairmen of respectively internal controls, as described below.
contracts provide that compensation on the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
During the year, the Committee has termination is determined by reference In the course of their induction, reviews monitored the implementation, under the to a notice period of 12 months.
This had have been undertaken of the Committees supervision of the Risk Committee as brought the Company into compliance with terms of reference, which remain relevant described below, of continuous provision B.
All executive and appropriate, and of the annual improvements in the Groups risk directors notice and contract periods do programmes of meetings which have been management processes.
The Committee not exceed one year.
adjusted to meet changing requirements.
also reviews the effectiveness and During 2006, the Committee met In addition, the performance of each independence of the Companys auditors, four times.
director has been evaluated in accordance Deloitte & Touche and is responsible for with the Code and feedback provided.
approving their remuneration and terms Nominations Committee The process of succession in relation to of engagement.
The Nominations Committee consists of the role of Chairman included meetings The Committee has recommended the Chairman of the Board, who chairs of non-executives without the Chairman to the Board that a proposal be put to the Committee and the independent being present as described below.
the shareholders at the Annual non-executive directors.
The Committee There is a procedure for all directors to General Meeting that Deloitte & Touche keeps under review the composition of the take independent external advice, at the be reappointed.
Board, including succession, and makes Companys expense, in the course of their Details of Deloitte and Touches fees recommendations to the Board for all duties via the Company Secretary.
Working for audit and non-audit work during 2006 new appointments and reappointments.
with the Chairman, the Company Secretary are on page 61.
The non-audit fees for During 2006, the Nominations is responsible for ensuring that Board 2006 included a substantial amount of Committee met six times.
The Committee procedures are followed and all directors non-recurring work in connection with the was responsible for the process of have access to his advice and services.
The Committee identifying the requirements of the The Board has established Audit, reviews the appropriateness of all nonCompany and the Board in relation to Remuneration and Nominations audit work with a view to ensuring that Ian Peacocks successor, as Chairman.
Committees, each with defined terms it is necessary and not inconsistent with The Committee worked with independent of reference.
The terms of reference of auditor objectivity and independence.
search consultants to refine a shortlist of these Committees are reviewed regularly.
The Audit Committee met three candidates who were interviewed by Membership of these Committees, which is times in 2006. members of the Committee, leading to the reviewed annually, is shown on page 104.
Committee then making a recommendation The terms of reference for each Remuneration Committee to the Board in relation to the appointment Committee are available on request from The Remuneration Committee currently of Will Samuel.
Mr Peacock excluded the Company Secretary and on the consists of four independent non-executive himself, as required by the Code, from the Companys website www.
com directors and is chaired by Michael process of identifying his successor and Wemms.
Its composition during the year accordingly the Nominations Committee Audit Committee was as described in the Remuneration was chaired for that purpose, by Tony fide The Audit Committee currently consists of Report on pages 35 to 42.
It is responsible Nunzio, deputy chairman and senior four independent non-executive directors for advising on the remuneration packages independent director.
and was chaired throughout the year by needed to attract, retain and motivate When the candidacy of Mr Samuel Tony fide Nunzio.
With effect from 6 March executive directors of the required quality.
was identified, Lesley Knox, who is related 2007, Angus Cockburn, who is a chartered The Remuneration Committee is to him, also excluded herself from this accountant and Group finance director of responsible for developing strategy and recruitment and nominations process.
Aggreko plc, was appointed Chairman of policy on executive remuneration, deciding The Committee and the Board was satisfied the Committee.
The Audit Committee on the remuneration packages of individual following the recruitment process that assists the Board in ensuring that the executive directors and reviewing the Mr Samuel was independent upon Groups financial systems provide accurate remuneration and policy of certain other appointment, as required by the Code.
and up-to-date information on its financial senior executives who are not on the position and that the Groups published Board.
The Committee is regularly 44 Galiform Annual Report 2006 The Committee, as part of the continuing Risk and internal control An ongoing process for the effective process of progressively refreshing the The Board is responsible for the Groups management of risk has been defined Board, was also responsible during the system of internal control and for reviewing by the Board and is operated in the year for the appointments of Angus its effectiveness, whilst the role of following stages: Cockburn and Michael Wemms, as new management is to implement Board non-executive directors.
In both cases, policies on risk and control.
Such a system E ach operating entity and central independent search consultants were is, however, designed to manage rather function identifies key risks through the used to identify candidates who met the than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve adoption of both a bottom-up and specifications defined for the assignments business objectives.
In pursuing these top-down process.
These key risks by the Nominations Committee and the objectives, internal controls can only are regularly reviewed by each short-listed candidates were interviewed provide reasonable assurance against executive team.
The key risks to by the Committee prior to its formal mis-statement or loss.
The Combined Code each business areas objectives are recommendations to the Board.
recommends that the Board at least identified and scored for probability and The biographies of all the newly annually reviews the effectiveness of the impact.
The key controls to manage the appointed directors, showing their Groups system of internal controls, including risks to the desired level are identified.
background and experience, will be found financial, operational and compliance A local database of risks and controls is on pages 30 to 32.
All are experienced controls and risk management.
Subsequently maintained within each operating entity directors or officers of listed companies the Institute of Chartered Accountants in and central service function, which is and their induction programmes have England and Wales produced further consolidated into a central register to concentrated on familarising them with guidance on the wider aspects of internal become the key risk register for the the businesses of the Group, including control in September 1999 the Turnbull Group.
The Group Risk department meeting directors and executives Guidance.
The Board has conducted facilitates the identification of these individually, visiting operational locations, reviews of the effectiveness of the system risks and provides an independent discussions with the Companys external of internal controls through the processes appraisal of the interpretation of the advisers and the provision of introductory described below.
scoring mechanism, to ensure that the materials.
key risks are brought forward to the i.
The Risk Committee Relations with shareholders Following the introduction of the Turnbull then reviews the key risks to assess The Company considers its relationship Guidance the Board enhanced the Groups the effectiveness of the risk with both institutional and private investors existing risk management procedures.
to be important and readily enters into The Board can confirm that, for the 2006 T he senior executive team within each dialogue with investors.
The Company has financial year and up to the date of approval business entity and central service area consulted extensively with its principal of the annual report and financial are responsible for the ongoing review shareholders in the course of 2006 in statements, there has been an ongoing of their functions risk register.
Regular relation to developments affecting the process for identifying, evaluating and reporting on internal and external Company and also in relation to identifying managing the significant risks faced by changes that affect the risks or their appropriate executive incentive the Group that is reviewed regularly by importance to the business, and any arrangements to reflect the changing the Board and accords with the Turnbull risk occurrences, are reported upwards business profile of the Company.
The Company Secretary chairs through their register, to the Group Senior Independent Director makes the executive team with regards to Group Executive team.
himself available for meetings with Risk which is comprised of senior K ey generic risks and their management shareholders as required.
An investor executives from the key operating entities are regularly reported to and discussed relations website www.
com and service areas of the business.
provides an ideal channel for It is the responsibility of the Executive Team communication with existing and potential to review the effectiveness of the risk ii.
The Annual General Meeting management process and internal controls, The Group has an established framework provides an opportunity for shareholders on behalf of the Board.
The Executive of internal controls, which includes the to put their questions to the directors.
Team regularly reports to the Board on following key elements: The Board receives regular reports how risks are being managed.
In addition, on relations with the major shareholders there is a mechanism in place to report M embers of the Board have and developments and changes in their significant control breakdowns or risk responsibility for monitoring the shareholdings.
At the Annual General occurrences to the Executive Committee.
conduct and operations of individual Meeting the Company proposes separate businesses within the Group.
resolutions on each substantially separate The Group reviews the strategies issue and the numbers of proxy votes cast of the individual businesses and for and against each resolution are made the executive management of each available to shareholders when voting has business is accountable for their been completed.
The notice of the Annual conduct and performance within General Meeting is sent to shareholders at the agreed strategies.
least 20 working days before the meeting.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 45 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group and its subsidiaries operate with the Companies Act 1985 and The directors are responsible for keeping control procedures designed to ensure Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
proper accounting records that disclose complete and accurate accounting of International Accounting Standard 1 with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial transactions, and to limit requires that IFRS financial statements financial position of the Company and exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
present fairly, for each financial year, the enable them to ensure that the parent Measures taken include physical Companys financial position, financial company financial statements comply with controls, segregation of duties in key performance and cash flows.
This requires the Companies Act 1985.
They are also areas and periodic Internal Audit reviews.
the faithful representation of the effects of responsible for safeguarding the assets The Audit Committee meets regularly transactions, other events and conditions of the Company and hence for taking and its responsibilities are set out in accordance with the definitions and reasonable steps for the prevention and above.
It receives reports from the recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Audit function on the results of income and expenses set out in the The directors are responsible for the work carried out under a semi-annually International Accounting Standards maintenance and integrity of the corporate agreed audit programme.
The Audit Boards Framework for the preparation and financial information included on the Committee has independent access and presentation of financial statements.
Legislation in the to the internal and external auditors.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair United Kingdom governing the preparation Internal Audit facilitates a process presentation will be achieved by and dissemination of financial statements whereby operating entities provide compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
may differ from legislation in other certified statements of compliance However, directors are also required to: jurisdictions.
with internal financial controls, which are supported by the operation of key properly select and apply Directors indemnity and insurance controls during the period.
accounting policies: In accordance with the Articles of present information, including Association, the Company has provided Going concern accounting policies, in a manner that indemnities to the directors to the extent After reviewing current performance and provides relevant, reliable, comparable permitted by the Companies Acts in detailed forecasts, taking into account and understandable information: and respect of liabilities incurred as a result of available bank facilities and making further provide additional disclosures when their office and the Company has taken out enquiries as considered appropriate, the compliance with the specific an insurance policy in respect of those directors are satisfied that the Group has requirements in IFRSs are insufficient liabilities for which directors may not be adequate resources to enable it to continue to enable users indemnified.
Neither the indemnity nor in business for the foreseeable future.
to understand the impact of particular insurance provides cover in the event For this reason the Board believes it is transactions, other events and that the director is proved to have acted appropriate to continue to adopt the conditions on the entitys financial dishonestly or fraudulently.
going concern basis in preparing the position and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the Compliance with the Combined Code parent company financial statements in The Group has complied with the accordance with United Kingdom requirements of the Financial Services Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Authority relating to the provisions of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Combined Code and with the Turnbull and applicable law.
The parent company Guidance throughout the period ended financial statements are required by law on 30 December 2006 and up to the date to give a true and fair view of the state of of approval of the annual report and affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements.
financial statements, the directors are required to: Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for select suitable accounting policies preparing the Annual Report, Directors and then apply them consistently: Remuneration Report and the financial make judgements and estimates statements in accordance with applicable that are reasonable and prudent: law and regulations.
state whether applicable UK Company law requires the directors Accounting Standards have been to prepare financial statements for each followed, subject to any material financial year.
The directors are required by departures disclosed and explained the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group in the financial statements: financial statements under IFRSs as prepare the financial statements on adopted by the European Union.
The Group the going concern basis unless it is financial statements are also required by inappropriate to presume that the law to be properly prepared in accordance Company will continue in business.
46 Galiform Annual Report 2006 Attendance at meetings The following table shows the number of meetings individual directors could have attended taking account of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates during the year and their actual attendance.
For the Committees, only the attendance of members of that committee is shown, although other directors, where appropriate, have often also attended at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee: Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations Committee Main Board meetings meetings Committee meetings meetings Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Current directors attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance Will Samuel 7 7 Tony fide Nunzio 18 16 3 3 4 4 6 6 Matthew Ingle 18 18 Mark Robson 18 18 Angus Cockburn 2 2 1 1 1 1 Lesley Knox 18 18 3 3 4 4 5 4 Ian Smith 18 14 3 2 4 4 6 4 Peter Wallis 18 17 3 3 4 4 6 5 Michael Wemms 1 1 Former directors Ian Peacock 16 16 1 1 Bob Wilson 4 4 Paul Cheng 5 1 resident in Hong Kong Galiform Annual Report 2006 47
