Corporate Governance Combined Code This statement, which has been approved by the Board, reports on the Companys compliance, other than as reported below, with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and how the principles contained within the Code have been applied.
Compliance with the principles relating to Directors Remuneration is reflected within the Remuneration Committees report on pages 24 to 31.
The Board The Board of Directors currently comprise the Chairman, Chief Executive, two further executive Directors and three independent non-executive Directors.
Iain Paterson is the nominated senior independent non-executive Director.
This composition with a separate Chairman and Chief Executive ensures a balance of responsibilities and authorities.
The Directors together with brief biographical details are identified on page 16.
Excluding the Chairman, 50% of the Board is comprised of independent non-executive directors.
All Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every three years.
The non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year term with subsequent reappointments conditional upon an appraisal and review process described below.
Letters of appointment for each of the non-executive Directors are available from the Company upon request and their terms of appointment are summarised on page 27.
Details of the executive Directors service contracts are set out on pages 26 and 27.
The recommended period in the Code for a Directors notice or contract period is one year or less.
The Remuneration Committee considers that in one instance a two-year notice period for an executive Director is appropriate.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors are encouraged to maintain their skills and knowledge to best practice standards and where appropriate attend update training courses on relevant topics.
The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for keeping the Board informed of Corporate Governance developments and maintaining corporate awareness of legislative and regulatory changes.
The Board normally meets formally a minimum of five times a year and met six times during 2006 two of which were held in North America.
Meeting dates are set a year in advance.
All Directors attended the board meetings held during the year except for Dennis Proctor who was unable to attend one of those meetings due to a family death.
Board papers are always circulated in advance of meetings.
These include detailed financial reports on the Groups activities in addition to reports on each operating subsidiary.
In addition the meetings held in February and August focus on the full year and half year results respectively.
The meeting in December focuses on the budget and plans for the following three years.
The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees are formally agreed by the Board in writing.
In addition the division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Matters specifically reserved for the Board include but are not limited to the following: Compliance with UK Company Law and UK Listing Rule requirements.
Review the Groups system of internal control and assess its effectiveness.
Consider Group commercial strategy and approve the annual budget.
Consider Board appointments, terms of reference for each Director and the Board sub committees.
Board remuneration as recommended by the Remuneration Committee.
32 2006 annual report & accounts Corporate Governance continued The Board, its committees and each individual Director participate in an annual performance evaluation appraisal, the purpose of which is to confirm the continued effective contribution and performance of the individual or committee.
Evaluation of the Board was undertaken by the non-executive Directors and took account of Directors attendance and their contribution at meetings, financial performance of the Group against budget, compliance with corporate governance and best practice guidelines and market perception of the Group.
The Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees were evaluated by the executive Directors and took account of communication with the Board and compliance with terms of reference.
The evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the nonexecutive Directors and included an assessment of his leadership and direction of the Board.
The appraisal of the Chief Executive was completed by the non-executive Directors together with the Chairman.
Evaluation of the other individual Directors took account of their contribution and in the case of executive Directors the performance of their executive duties.
Prior to the reappointment of a non-executive Director, the Nomination Committee undertake an evaluation of the Directors contribution and commitment to the Board together with an evaluation of the Boards requirements.
In the case of a non-executive Director being reappointed for a third three year term, the Code recommends a particularly rigorous evaluation with particular consideration being given to the need to regularly refresh the Board.
The Nomination Committee undertook such an evaluation of Iain Paterson prior to his reappointment for a third three year term effective from 6 June 2006 concluding that he remained a valuable contributor to the Board.
Iain Paterson did not participate in the evaluation process undertaken by the Committee.
The Board has three main sub committees to which it delegates responsibility and authorities: Nomination Committee members of the Committee are Richard Hunting Chairman, Dennis Proctor and the three non-executive Directors.
The Committee, which convened twice during the year with all members participating, except as noted in the paragraph above, has written terms of reference approved by the Board and which are available from the Company upon request.
The role of the Committee includes leading the process for Board appointments and determining the terms of new appointments.
The Committee also considers succession planning which takes into account the experience and skills required of Board members.
Remuneration Committee details of the Remuneration Committee are contained within their report on page 24.
The Committee operates within written terms of reference approved by the Board which are available from the Company upon request.
Audit Committee members of the Committee comprise exclusively the three independent non-executive Directors.
The Code recommends that at least one of the non-executive Directors has recent and relevant financial experience.
None of the non-executive Directors have this experience, however the Board considers that the Audit Committee receives sufficient support and guidance from the external auditors, the Finance Director and other financial advisors.
The Committee, which met three times during the year, is chaired by Iain Paterson and operates under written terms of reference approved by the Board which are available from the company upon request.
All committee members attended all meetings held during the year.
It normally meets in February or March and August each year with a third meeting in April coinciding with the Groups Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and the auditors are invited to attend all meetings.
The auditors present an audit report at each meeting for consideration by the Committee.
Their full year report includes a statement on their independence, their ability to remain objective and undertake an effective audit.
The Committee consider and assess this independence statement on behalf of the Board taking into account the level of fees paid particularly for non-audit services.
During 2006 the Committee have continued to closely monitor fees paid to the auditors in respect of non-audit services which are analysed within note 2006 annual report & accounts 33 Corporate Governance continued 8 on page 56 and include 0.7m in respect of taxation advice.
At the August meeting, scheduled immediately prior to the announcement of the half year results, the auditors present their interim report to the Committee which includes audit scope and fee estimates for the annual audit.
The Committee normally meets the auditors without executive Directors present at the end of each formal meeting.
Other responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Review of reports on the Groups system of internal control.
Review of reports from the Groups internal audit process and agreement of internal audit scope.
Review of the external auditors independence and effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level and quality of service in relation to fees paid.
Monitor the Groups financial statements and announcements.
Monitor and approve engagements of the external auditor to provide non-audit services for the Group.
The Board receives copies of all reports submitted to the Audit Committee.
The senior independent non-executive Director, Iain Paterson, is the primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise in confidence concerns they may have over possible improprieties financial or otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement through the corporate magazine, company notice boards and the Company web site.
Institutional Shareholders The Company uses a number of processes for communicating with shareholders, including the full and half year reports and the Annual General Meeting to which all shareholders are invited.
The Annual General Meeting is normally preceded by an operational and financial presentation given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director when there is opportunity for questions to be put to the Board by shareholders.
Due to a family death, Dennis Proctor was unable to attend the 2006 Annual General Meeting and the presentation did not take place.
Additionally, the Chief Executive and Finance Director meet on a one to one basis with all principal shareholders at least twice a year or when requested to update them of Group performance and strategy.
The Board is in turn briefed by the Chief Executive when appropriate on matters raised by shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are offered the opportunity to meet with shareholders and are available to meet if requested by shareholders.
The Code recommends that the Chairman and the senior independent non-executive Director should meet with key shareholders in order that the Board receives a balanced view of shareholder issues or concerns.
The Board has reviewed its procedures currently in place for ensuring they are fairly and adequately apprised of shareholder issues.
In addition to the foregoing, the Companys web site www.
uk publishes Company announcements and other investor information used to communicate with shareholders and interested parties.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys web site is the responsibility of the Directors.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
34 2006 annual report & accounts Corporate Governance continued Internal Controls The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control system, which has been in place throughout 2006 and up to the date of approval of these accounts, is an ongoing process designed to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which the Company is exposed.
Any such system of internal control can however, only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss in the financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period covered by these financial statements, the key features of which are as follows: Management structure within operational parameters set by the Board, management is delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors.
Subsidiaries operate within clearly defined policies and authorities contained within a Group Manual under a decentralised management structure.
All senior management changes require the prior approval of the Chief Executive.
Reporting all subsidiaries submit detailed management information in accordance with a pre-set reporting timetable.
This includes weekly treasury reports, monthly management accounts, annual budgets and three-year plans together with half and full year statutory reporting.
This data is subject to review and assessment by management through the monitoring of key performance ratios and comparison to targets and budgets.
The content and format of reporting is subject to change to ensure appropriate information is available.
Strategic planning and budgeting strategic plans and annual budgets containing comprehensive financial projections are formally presented to the Board for adoption and approval and form the basis for monitoring performance.
Clearly defined procedures exist for capital expenditure proposals and authorisation.
Quality assurance most of the business sectors within which the Group operate are highly regulated and subsidiaries are invariably required to be accredited, by the customer or an industry regulator, to national or international quality organisations.
These organisations undertake regular audits and checks on subsidiary operating procedures and practices ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
Monitoring process in addition to reports from external auditors the Audit Committee receives reports from the internal auditors as part of the Groups internal audit and risk assessment programme.
All subsidiaries undertake formal self-assessment reviews a minimum of three times a year on their internal control environment.
These reviews encompass the identification of the key business, financial, compliance and operational risks facing the business together with an assessment of the controls in place for managing and mitigating these risks.
Additionally, risks are evaluated for their potential impact on the business.
The results of these reviews together with a review of risks facing the Group as a whole are reported to the Board.
Risk management is a Board agenda item at every Board meeting.
2006 annual report & accounts 35 Corporate Governance continued Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss for the financial year.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Committees Report.
The Directors confirm that the financial statements, using applicable accounting standards, have been prepared on a going concern basis using suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
