Corporate governance Corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors NEDs have a particular responsibility to ICI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive The Group has applied the principles contained in Section I of the and Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: to Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial assess risk and the integrity of financial information and controls: and Reporting Council in July 2003 referred to below as the Combined to ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning Code and has complied throughout 2006, and to the date of this arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other Annual Report, with the provisions set out therein as they apply to senior executive roles.
Each NED continues to demonstrate that he the Group.
or she has sufficient time to devote to the Companys business.
The Group has taken steps to ensure that it will comply with the Lord Butler, the Senior Independent Director, leads any Board provisions of the Combined Code, as amended and reissued in 2006, discussions impacting on the Chairman from which the latter absents with effect from 1 January 2007. himself, in particular in relation to performance and succession.
He is also available to the Chairman as a source of advice on The Board matters affecting the operation of the Board generally.
Within the overall strategy and objectives for the Group agreed by the Board, day to day management is delegated to the Chief Executive Currently, the Board comprises ten Directors: the Chairman, and Executive Management Team EMT, with individual chief Mr P B Ellwood: the Chief Executive, Dr J D G McAdam: three executive officers being responsible for the performance of each Executive Directors and five independent NEDs, including the Senior of the businesses.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 36 to 37.
These individuals demonstrate a range of The Board reviews the operational performance of the Group on business, financial and global experience and expertise from a variety a regular basis and also exercises a number of reserved powers of commercial sectors and public life, which is vital to the successful which include: direction of a multi-national company.
The Board is balanced, both responsibility for setting the strategic direction of the Group and numerically and in experience, so that no individual or small group agreeing the Group Strategic Plan: of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
approving the annual budget and Group Finance Plan: The Board has assessed the independence of the NEDs against the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the New York Stock appointment and dismissal of the Chief Executive and any member Exchange corporate governance rules, save that in the case of the of the Board or EMT, and succession planning for these roles: latter the Board has not sought to enquire into the interests of establishing, via the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration Directors family members other than their spouse.
On this basis, the policy for Executive Directors and members of the EMT: Board has concluded that all the NEDs are independent in character and judgment.
On the same basis, Mr Ellwood was also independent approving the Groups Sustainability policy and targets including when appointed Chairman.
those for safety, health and the environment: Mr Ellwood is a Non-Executive Director of the US company, approving and monitoring compliance with ICIs Code First Data Corporation, Inc. but is not otherwise a director of any of Conduct the Group ethics policy and associated other company, and his agreement with ICI prohibits him from whistleblowing procedures: becoming chairman of another company without ICIs consent.
He authorisation of material borrowings and any issue of does perform a number of pro-bono roles, but these commitments equity securities: did not change materially in 2006 and the Board remains satisfied that they are not such as to interfere with the performance of his committing to major capital expenditure, acquisitions duties as Chairman of ICI, which are based around a commitment or divestments: of approximately 150 days per annum.
agreeing treasury policy including the agreement of foreign Mr Powell stepped down from the Board on 6 April 2006. currency and interest risk parameters: and All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every dividend policy.
Subject to satisfactory performance, NEDs are normally The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity expected to serve two three-year terms, commencing with the first of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system Annual General Meeting after the date of their appointment and they of internal control and risk management processes.
have no entitlement to compensation except in relation to fees and expenses due at the date of termination if the appointment The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief terminates prior to the end of the three-year term for any reason.
Executive, which is set out in writing, has been approved by the There may be circumstances where NEDs are invited to remain on Board.
In overall terms: the Board after the expiry of their second three-year term for a further the Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring its period of up to three years.
Any such invitation will be subject to the effectiveness: and Director in question standing for annual re-election by shareholders.
the Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day In accordance with this policy, Lord Butler will retire and stand for basis and is accountable to the Board for its financial and re-election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs and share a responsibility for setting and ensuring the highest standards of ethics and integrity across the Group.
38 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
