At the core of the risk management process is the Group risk register, the findings from the annual process of statements of compliance and the support provided to the Board by the Group Risk Committee with Group policies and guidelines: GRC.
The GRC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and an evaluation of the Group-level controls using the framework comprises the heads of major corporate functions, the Chief Internal included in the Turnbull Guidance: Auditor and the Group Vice President Legal.
the findings from the 2006 internal audit programme: The GRC consolidates, reviews and prioritises input from the businesses and management and reports its conclusions to the Audit the programme to achieve compliance with the requirements of Committee and the Board.
Normally, the Audit Committee reports to Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
This programme the Board the results of its review of the risk management process for has assessed the design adequacy and operating effectiveness the full Group risk register.
The full Board then reviews the Group risk of the internal controls over financial reporting.
The risk-based register and draws its collective conclusions as to the effectiveness of approach has focused on the controls at the Corporate Centre, the system of internal control.
However, in 2006 the risk management business headquarters and larger operating units: managements process and performance were reviewed by the full Board, allowing testing of the operating effectiveness of these controls has been Directors the opportunity to review the appropriateness of the Groups undertaken primarily using independent external consultants: and approach to risk.
Further information on the risks faced by the Group regular updates to the Board from the Vice President Sustainability is included in the Risk Factors section of the Business review on on the Groups safety, health and environment performance.
Whilst areas for improvement in control have been identified and The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success actions initiated as a result of the above processes, no significant of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
shortcomings in internal control have been identified from the annual Such processes include strategic planning, the appointment of senior assessment.
managers, the regular monitoring of performance, control over capital expenditure and investments and the setting of high standards and Board effectiveness targets for safety, health and environmental performance.
Businesses Induction and continuing development are responsible for meeting the defined reporting timetables and On appointment all new Directors receive a formal induction, tailored compliance with Group accounting manuals, which set out to their particular needs, which includes, as appropriate, visits to key accounting policies, controls and definitions.
The Chief Executive locations and meetings with senior executives.
Throughout their receives a monthly summary of financial results from each business, period in office, Directors are continually updated on the Groups and the Groups published quarterly financial information is based business and the competitive and regulatory environment in which on a standardised and timely reporting process.
Directors are advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company and are The Groups strategic direction has been regularly reviewed by the periodically updated on these as part of their continuing development.
Annual plans and performance targets for each business were set by the Chief Executive and were reviewed in total by the Board Evaluation in the light of the Groups overall objectives.
All Directors, including the Chairman, receive a formal performance evaluation to which all other members of the Board have an Responsibility for monitoring compliance with Group policies and opportunity to contribute.
The reviews are led as indicated below.
guidelines rests with the chief executive officers of the businesses and with senior managers at the Corporate Centre.
Annual statements of Board Member Review led by: compliance are provided to the Chief Executive, and these statements Chairman Senior Independent Director are reviewed by the relevant functional leader for each policy area.
Senior Independent Director other In turn, there is an annual report to the Audit Committee, on behalf Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Board, on the degree of compliance with Group policies and guidelines.
Corrections to any weaknesses found are monitored and Chief Executive Chairman controls are developed to match changing circumstances.
Executive Directors Chief Executive The Internal Audit function reviews internal controls in all key financial The NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
activities of the Group, typically over a three-year cycle.
It acts as a These discussions include evaluation of Board and individual Director service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement performance and succession plans.
The Chief Executive and of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its Chairman each absent themselves when their own performance is recommendations and these are followed up to ensure that satisfactory being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chairman except in control is maintained.
Quarterly reviews have been conducted relation to his own performance and succession when the Senior during the year between internal audit management and the senior Independent Director takes the chair and feedback is provided.
management of the businesses to assess their current control status and to identify and address any areas of concern.
In addition, in 2006, a review took place of the effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees.
The Directors were asked to In accordance with the provisions of the Turnbull Guidance, the Board complete questionnaires and to provide comments on Board and has undertaken its annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Committee procedures and effectiveness.
The results of the Groups system of internal controls, key inputs to the 2006 evaluations were reviewed by the Chairman and the Company assessment have included: Secretary, prior to being presented to the Board as a whole.
The the review at the full Board meeting in November of the Group risk collective view of Directors was that the Board and its Committees register, of the risk management processes and of opportunities were operating effectively.
to further improve risk mitigation activities, following proposals from the GRC: www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
