Summary corporate governance report Corporate governance Audit Committee ICI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Group The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its has applied the principles contained in Section I of the Combined Code responsibilities for corporate governance, financial reporting and on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in corporate control.
The Committee also monitors the Groups whistleJuly 2003 referred to below as the Combined Code and has complied blowing procedures, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in throughout 2006, and to the date of this Annual Review, with the place to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with provisions set out therein as they apply to the Group.
It met on four occasions in 2006.
The Board The Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors The Board comprises the Chairman, Mr P B Ellwood, the Chief Executive, under the Chairmanship of Mr J T Gorman.
The Board has determined Dr J D G McAdam, three Executive Directors and five independent that Mr Gorman and Baroness Noakes are the Audit Committees Non-Executive Directors NEDs including the Senior Independent Director, financial experts.
Biographical details of all Directors are set out on page 13.
Audit and internal control All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for directors on internal stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The NEDs, however, have a control the Turnbull Guidance in the Combined Code, the Board particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing proposed by the Chief Executive and Executive Directors, to scrutinise the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups strategic performance, assess risk and the integrity of financial information and objectives.
The process has been in place throughout 2006 and up to controls, and ensure appropriate remuneration and succession the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and accords planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors with the Turnbull Guidance.
This process is regularly reviewed either and other senior executive roles.
directly by the Board or by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings for the consideration of the Board.
The Board has assessed the independence of the NEDs against the criteria set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and The Board also confirms that it is responsible for maintaining the the New York Stock Exchange NYSE corporate governance rules save Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
that in the case of the latter the Board has not sought to enquire into No significant shortcomings in internal control have been identified from interests of Directors family members other than their spouse.
Board has concluded the Company complies with the requirements of Board effectiveness the Combined Code and that all the NEDs are independent in character All new Directors receive a formal induction tailored to their particular and judgement.
On the same basis, Mr Ellwood was also independent needs which includes, as appropriate, visits to key locations and when appointed Chairman.
Throughout their period in office, All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every Directors are continually updated on the Groups business and the three years.
Subject to satisfactory performance, NEDs are normally competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates.
Directors expected to serve two three-year terms commencing with the first are advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and Annual General Meeting after the date of their appointment.
However, obligations as a Director of a listed company and are periodically there may be circumstances where NEDs are invited to remain on the updated on these as part of their continuing professional development.
Board after the expiry of their second three-year term for a further All Directors, including the Chairman, receive a formal performance period of up to three years.
Any such invitation will be subject to the evaluation to which all other members of the Board have an opportunity Director in question standing for annual re-election by shareholders.
In accordance with this policy, Lord Butler will retire and stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These discussions include evaluation of Board and individual Director The principal Board Committees, which report to the Board, are the performance and succession plans.
Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees meet at least In 2006, a review took place of the effectiveness of the Board and quarterly and the Nomination Committee as and when required.
The Directors were asked to complete Summary remits of these Committees are set out below and full terms questionnaires and to provide comments on Board and Committee of reference are available via the Investor Relations section of the procedures and effectiveness.
The results of the evaluations were Companys website at www.
com and in paper form from the reviewed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary, prior to being Company Secretariat on request.
presented to the Board as a whole.
The collective view of Directors was that the Board and its committees were operating effectively.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the independent NEDs under US corporate governance compliance the Chairmanship of Mr Ellwood and is responsible for proposing new As a consequence of its US listing, the Company is required to comply appointments of Directors to the Board and reviews succession plans with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, as it applies to and arrangements for the Board and Executive Management Team.
As at 31 December 2006, the Company was in It met on one occasion in 2006. compliance with all applicable rules and regulations arising from Sarbanes-Oxley.
In particular, the Group has designed its processes, Remuneration Committee controls and procedures to meet the requirements of Section 404 of The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and the most senior management of the Company.
The In accordance with recommendations issued by the US Securities Committee determines the total remuneration packages for these and Exchange Commission SEC, the Company has established a individuals including any compensation on termination of office.
Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives from It met on seven occasions in 2006. the ICI Corporate Centre: the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President, Investor Relations and The Committee comprises the independent NEDs under the Corporate Communications, the Chief Internal Auditor and the Group Chairmanship of Mr R N Haythornthwaite.
The Committee designs, maintains and evaluates The Summary Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 17 includes details the Companys disclosure controls and procedures and reports its of remuneration policy and practices, and information on the evaluation to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, remuneration of Directors.
com Summary corporate governance report the Committee reviews the Companys Annual Reports, interim results As stated on page 14, ICI has applied the principles contained in announcements and other significant materials disseminated to Section I of the Combined Code and has complied throughout 2006, shareholders before they are released.
and to the date of this Annual Review, with the provisions set out therein as they apply to the Company.
The Combined Code does not As a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, ICI must comply with the require ICI to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines NYSEs corporate governance rules and must disclose any significant with which it complies.
ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those required to be followed by US companies under the NYSE listing In compliance with the governance rules of the NYSE and Rule 10A-3 standards.
We believe the following to be the significant differences of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has determined between our corporate governance practices and the NYSE corporate that each member of the ICI Audit Committee satisfies the SEC governance rules applicable to US companies.
Subsequent to this determination, the Company has filed with the NYSE a written affirmation that the Audit Independent Directors Committee complies with Section 303A of the NYSEs Listed Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent Company Manual.
Directors must comprise a majority of the Board of Directors.
The NYSE rules include detailed tests for determining Director independence while Principles of business conduct the Combined Code prescribes a more general standard for determining ICIs reputation for high ethical standards is central to its business Director independence.
The Combined Code requires a companys success.
ICIs Code of Conduct the Code provides guidance in Board to assess director independence by affirmatively concluding that this area.
The Code was updated in 2006 and is being communicated the Director is independent of management and free from any business throughout the Group.
It applies to all ICI employees, including or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of Directors and Officers.
A confidential, independently operated, whistleindependent judgement.
blowing service is also provided to enable staff to report any suspected non-compliance.
The Code is published on the Companys website The ICI Board does not have a majority of independent Directors.
com and is available in paper form from the Company However, the Board includes a balance of Executive Directors and Secretariat on request.
independent NEDs such that no individual or group can dominate the Boards decision-making and the Company complies with the A new updated Group Antitrust Compliance Policy has also been Combined Code.
updated and the Companys antitrust training programmes are being strengthened to support the objectives of the Policy.
The Board of ICI has assessed the independence of the NEDs against the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the NYSE corporate Shareholder communications governance rules, save that in the case of the latter, the Board has not Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Annual sought to enquire into the interests of Directors family members other Review is sent to shareholders and a full Annual Report and Accounts than their spouse.
On this basis the Board has concluded that all NEDs is available by election or on request.
At the half year, an interim report are independent.
is sent to shareholders and the quarterly results are published via the London Stock Exchange and by press release.
The Companys financial Nominating Corporate Governance Committee reports are available to shareholders in paper and electronic form.
US companies listed on the NYSE are required to have a The Companys website www.
com provides financial and other Nominating Corporate Governance Committee composed entirely of information about ICI and contains an archive of past announcements independent Directors with a charter that addresses the Committees and Annual Reports.
purpose including the responsibility to develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles.
Shareholders have the opportunity to receive documents such as the Notice of Meeting, Form of Proxy, the Annual Report and Annual Review ICI does not have a Nomination Corporate Governance Committee.
in electronic form via the internet rather than in paper form through the ICIs Nomination Committee comprises the Companys independent post.
Shareholders choosing this option will receive a notification by Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was deemed, under email each time the Company publishes such documentation on its the Combined Code, to be independent on appointment.
Shareholders may also appoint proxies electronically.
responsibility for developing the Companys corporate governance principles rests with the Board.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with investors and that the Board understands the views of major Non-management Directors meetings shareholders rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available Pursuant to NYSE listing standards for US companies, non-management to meet shareholders for this purpose.
On a day-to-day basis the Directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and Boards primary contact with major shareholders is via the Chief independent Directors must meet separately at least once per year.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer who have regular dialogue with ICIs NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
individual institutional shareholders and deliver presentations to These meetings include evaluation of Board and individual Director analysts after the quarterly results.
The Senior Independent Director performance and succession plans.
The Chairman and Chief Executive and other members of the Board, however, are also available to meet both absent themselves when their own performances are being major investors on request.
Discussions are led by the Chairman, except when his own The Board commissions an independent survey of investor views performance and succession is discussed, when the Senior covering both the UK and US on a biennial basis which provides Independent Director takes the Chair.
Adoption and disclosure of corporate governance guidelines Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the Annual General US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose Meeting to question the Chairman and through him the Chairmen corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
As an alternative, Services Authority require each listed company incorporated in the shareholders may leave written questions for response by the UK to include in its Annual Report and Accounts a narrative statement Company.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can of how it has applied the principles of the Combined Code and a meet informally with the Directors.
statement as to whether or not it has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period covered by the Corporate governance rating Annual Report and Accounts.
In a report issued in July 2006 by Governance Metrics International, a global corporate governance ratings agency, ICI was ranked among the top UK companies, with an overall global rating of 8.5 out of a possible 10. www.
com ICI Annual Review 2006 15 Summary corporate governance report
