Corporate governance continued approving annual grants, awards, performance conditions and a review of the strategy for the internal audit function: payments under the AIP, the Executive Share Option plan and reviewing the Groups progress in achieving compliance with the Performance Growth Plan PGP for the Chief Executive Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, regarding internal and the EMT: control over financial reporting: reviewing and approving the 2005 Remuneration Report: the recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of KPMG approving the required IFRS restatement for existing EPS Audit Plc as the external auditor and approval of the 2006 external performance conditions for the Executive Share Option plan and audit plan and fee proposal: approving the outcome of those performance conditions due to the policy on auditor independence and provision of audit and be tested in 2006: non-audit services by the auditor: reviewing and approving the retirement arrangements for Mr Powell: the Groups compliance with the Combined Code and the approving Mr Knotts appointment as Non-Executive Director New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance rules: of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC: the proposed format of the 2006 Business review: conducting a review of the effectiveness of the material litigation affecting the Company: Remuneration Committee: the Terms of Reference and the effectiveness of the Audit approving changes to the Committees Terms of Reference Committee: and to ensure alignment with the revised Combined Code: reporting on the Groups whistleblowing programme which ensures considering and approving revised fee and base salaries for that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the EMT: able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with approving changes to the rules of the PGP, following the suitable subsequent follow-up action.
introduction of new age discrimination legislation: and Regular attendees at Audit Committee meetings, at the invitation approving required revisions to the peer group companies for the of the Chairman of the Committee, include: the Chairman, Chief Total Shareholder Return TSR performance measure of the PGP.
Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Internal Auditor, Group Financial Controller and the external auditors, KPMG.
The Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 56 includes details of The Committee meets regularly with the external and internal auditors remuneration policy and practices, and the remuneration of Directors.
without the presence of management.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its to preserve the independence of KPMG Audit Plc, when acting as responsibilities for corporate governance, financial reporting and auditor of the Group Accounts.
This policy governs the provision of corporate control.
It met on four occasions in 2006.
The Committee audit and non-audit services by the auditor and its associates.
It comprises the NEDs under the chairmanship of Mr Gorman.
identifies certain non-audit services which the auditor is prohibited The dates on which these individuals were first appointed to the from providing.
Certain defined categories of permitted service are Committee are as follows: approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis and the J T Gorman September 2000 Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve additional categories, A Baan June 2001 subsequently ratifying these with the Audit Committee at its next Lord Butler July 1998 meeting.
Audit and non-audit engagements are also subject to formal R N Haythornthwaite February 2001 authorisation procedures based on the level of fees involved, with Baroness Noakes March 2004 major engagements requiring specific authorisation by the Committee.
The Board has determined that Mr Gorman and Baroness Noakes Internal control and audit are the Audit Committees financial experts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and Audit Committee Report managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups The work of the Audit Committee during 2006 included consideration strategic objectives.
The process has been in place throughout 2006 of the following matters: and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, in respect of the 2005 year end: the full year results release, the and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
This process is regularly Annual Report and Accounts, and the annual report from the reviewed either directly by the Board or by the Audit Committee, external auditor: which reports its findings for consideration by the Board.
the quarterly financial results and the Interim Report 2006: The Board also confirms that it is responsible for maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
developments in accounting standards and the Groups responses: The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups the Groups risk management processes: particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks to the the 2005 full year report on internal audit and the effectiveness achievement of business objectives, and can only provide reasonable of internal control: and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
the progress of the 2006 internal audit programme and matters arising therefrom: 40 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
