Corporate governance continued Discussions, during and following the review, focused on a number As a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, ICI is subject to the NYSE of detailed areas including the following: corporate governance rules and must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those required Board Composition to be followed by US companies under the NYSE listing standards.
In reviewing the skills, attributes and experiences of those Directors We believe the following to be the significant differences between our currently in office, the Board has identified possible specific areas of corporate governance practices and the NYSE corporate governance knowledge and expertise that it will look for in future NED appointments.
rules applicable to US companies.
In addition, the following points were highlighted in the evaluation: Independent Directors the Boards remit reflects what is required of an effective Board and Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent its meetings, agendas and activities address the elements directors must comprise a majority of the board of directors.
contained in its remit: The NYSE rules include detailed tests for determining director the Board comprises a diverse mix of individuals with appropriate independence while the Combined Code prescribes a more general levels of skill, knowledge and experience: and standard for determining director independence.
The Combined Code requires a companys board to assess director independence by the Board operates in an open and constructive manner, with affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of management high quality discussion and debate, with valuable and effective and free from any business or other relationship that could materially contributions made by all Directors and with a collective desire interfere with the exercise of independent judgment.
for the Company to succeed.
The ICI Board does not have a majority of independent Directors.
US corporate governance compliance However, the Board includes a balance of Executive Directors and As a consequence of its US listing, the Company is required to independent Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or comply with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, as group can dominate the Boards decision making and the Company it applies to foreign issuers.
As at 31 December 2006, the Company complies with the Combined Code.
was in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations arising from Sarbanes-Oxley.
In particular, the Group has designed its The Board of ICI has assessed the independence of the NEDs processes, controls and procedures to meet the requirements of against the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the NYSE Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
corporate governance rules, save that, in the case of the latter, the Board has not sought to enquire into the interests of Directors family In accordance with recommendations issued by the SEC, the members other than their spouse and has concluded that all the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising NEDs are independent and that ICI complies with the requirements appropriate senior executives from the ICI Corporate Centre: the of the Combined Code.
General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Nominating Corporate Governance Committee and the Chief Internal Auditor and Group Financial Controller.
US companies listed on the NYSE are required to have a Nominating Corporate Governance Committee composed entirely of The Disclosure Committees responsibilities include: independent directors with a charter that addresses the Committees designing, maintaining and evaluating the Companys disclosure purpose including the responsibility to develop and recommend to controls and procedures and reporting its evaluation to the Chief the Board a set of corporate governance principles.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer: ICI does not have a Nomination Corporate Governance Committee.
reviewing the Companys Annual Reports, interim results ICIs Nomination Committee comprises the Companys independent announcements and other materials disseminated to shareholders Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was deemed, under before they are released: the Combined Code, to be independent on appointment.
satisfying itself as to the verification processes for all The responsibility for developing the Companys corporate announcements and the formal sign-off of related documents: and governance principles rests with the Board.
recommending appropriate employee training in respect of the Non-management Directors meetings handling of inside information and the ICI Disclosure Policy.
Pursuant to NYSE listing standards for US companies, non-management directors must meet on a regular basis without In accordance with the ICI Disclosure Policy, the Committee provides management present and independent directors must meet a formal report to the Board on an annual basis, through the separately at least once per year.
ICIs NEDs meet twice a year with Company Secretary, stating how the Committee has performed its the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These meetings include evaluation duties in respect of monitoring inside information.
of Board and individual Director performance and succession plans.
The Chairman and Chief Executive both absent themselves when their own performance is being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chairman, except when his own performance and succession are discussed, when the Senior Independent Director takes the chair.
42 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
