28 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of committees, the committee chairmen, with the support corporate governance are maintained by the Company.
of the Group Company Secretary, ensure that sufficient regular The Board supports the main and supporting principles and the meetings are scheduled and other meetings are held as provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
required in order for the Board and the committees to discharge The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require listed their respective duties sufficiently.
The number of meetings companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Code, held is shown in the table below.
In addition, the Board held how they have applied its principles and whether they have a strategy review.
complied with its provisions throughout the accounting The names and biographical details of the Chairman, the period.
This statement, together with the report on Directors Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive remuneration on pages 33 to 40, explains how the Company Director, the Group Chief Executive, and the chairmen and has applied the principles and complied with the provisions members of the principal committees can be found on set out in the Code.
The Board is aware of the provisions pages 24 and 25.
In the few instances where a Director has not of the new Combined Code issued in 2006, which applies been able to attend a Board or committee meeting, this has for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2006. been due to a prior commitment or for reason of illness.
During the year the Board continued to keep corporate In such circumstances it is the normal practice for the Directors governance matters under review, monitoring policies and comments on the business of the meeting to be relayed to guidelines issued by the main institutional bodies such as the the chairman of the meeting in advance of the meeting, Association of British Insurers and the National Association of and for the chairman of the meeting to communicate the Pension Funds, and adopting appropriate recommendations Directors views at the meeting.
of relevant bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Information regarding meetings of the Board, and the principal and Administrators and the Institute of Chartered Accountants committees during the year, and Directors attendance of England and Wales.
Directors Board Scheduled Ad hoc The Board Number of meetings held 8 6 The Board recognises its collective responsibility for leading and controlling the Group.
It is responsible for setting the Groups Peter Johnson strategic aims, ensuring that sufficient resources are available appointed Chairman 1 January 2006 8 6 for the Group to meet its objectives and monitoring executive Raymond Chien 8 2 management.
It is also responsible for setting the Companys Karen Guerra appointed 1 January 2006 8 5 values and standards in corporate governance matters.
The Directors act in the best interests of the Company, Ken Hanna 8 1 cognisant of their duties to shareholders and also with Andr Lacroix consideration for other stakeholders.
appointed Chief Executive 1 January 2006 8 5 The Board has a formal schedule of matters required to be Barbara Richmond appointed 3 April 2006 5 3 brought to it for its decision.
Such matters include: strategy WillSamuel 84 and management: major investments, acquisitions and David Scotland 8 5 disposals: corporate and capital structure: financial budgeting: reporting and controls: monitoring internal controls: approval Michael Wemms 8 4 of major contracts: external corporate communications: Board membership and appointments: corporate governance: Audit Committee Scheduled Ad hoc and Group policy in important areas.
Number of meetings held 3 There are clear written Terms of Reference for the responsibilities Ken Hanna Chairman 3 delegated to the principal committees.
Through the Nomination Committee, the Board fulfils its role in nominating Will Samuel 3 new Directors and succession planning.
The Remuneration David Scotland 3 Committee determines appropriate levels of remuneration Michael Wemms 3 of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior executives.
Through its Audit Committee, the Board discharges its responsibilities in respect of the integrity of financial information, Nomination Committee Scheduled Ad hoc on the financial, operational and compliance controls and Number of meetings held 2 on the systems of risk management.
Below Board and principal Peter Johnson committee level, there are clear limits on the authority that appointed Chairman 1 January 2006 2 management committees and individuals have to make financial commitments.
Ken Hanna 2 Andr Lacroix appointed 1 January 2006 2 The Board and its principal committees meet regularly during the year.
In addition, ad hoc meetings are held.
In the case Will Samuel 2 of the Board these were mainly to discuss specific strategic David Scotland 2 projects.
For the Remuneration Committee, they were mainly Michael Wemms 2 to discuss issues relating to the remuneration strategy review.
In setting the timetable the Chairman and, in the case of the 29 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 a subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Hong Kong.
Remuneration Committee Scheduled Ad hoc The other five Non-executive Directors are considered by the Number of meetings held 2 6 Board to be independent in accordance with the Code as Michael Wemms Chairman 2 6 being independent in character and judgement and having Karen Guerra appointed 1 January 2006 2 5 no relationships which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Will Samuel and Michael Ken Hanna 1 3 Wemms are both Non-executive Directors of Galiform PLC.
WillSamuel 24 Having regard to all the circumstances, including the David Scotland 2 6 independence they have demonstrated as Directors of the Company and the fact that there are no cross-shareholdings The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors without or business relationships between Galiform and Inchcape, the Executive Directors present as necessary.
One meeting the Board is satisfied and has determined that they are was held during the year.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior both independent.
Independent Non-executive Director also meets the other Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present, as During the year, at least half the Board, excluding the needed, including an annual appraisal of the Chairmans Chairman, comprised Independent Non-executive Directors, performance.
One meeting was held during the year.
determined by the Board to be independent and continues to do so.
If any Director were to have any concerns regarding the running of the Company or a proposed action, these would Appointments to the Board be recorded in the Board minutes.
If a Director were to resign The Code requires that there be a formal, rigorous and over an unresolved issue, the Chairman would bring the issue transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the attention of the Board.
No such concerns or issues arose to the Board, which should be made on merit and against during the year.
The main responsibility for Board appointments is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
For some years the Company has purchased insurance The processes and work of the Committee are set out in more to cover its Directors against legal action taken against them detail on pages 30 and 31. in that capacity.
Information and professional development Chairman Board and committee papers are generally distributed six days Peter Johnson was appointed Non-executive Chairman on in advance of the meeting and the Board and its principal 1 January 2006, having previously been Group Chief Executive.
committees consider that this timing and the information which As reported last year, the Board recognised the benefit to the has been supplied is sufficient to enable them to discharge Company and its shareholders of Peter Johnsons ongoing their respective duties.
involvement because of his deep and broad experience of the automotive industry as a whole and the contrasting In the case of urgent matters the policy adopted by the international market in which Inchcape operates.
They also Board and its Committees is to hold a telephone or video recognised the pivotal role which he has played in the conference meeting in which as many Directors as possible development and continuity of Inchcapes relationships can participate.
Papers for such meetings are sent to all with its major international manufacturer partners, which in Directors as far as possible in advance of the meeting to many cases are founded upon associations built up over enable the views of those Directors who are unable to attend many years.
to be relayed to the chairman of the meeting so that he can communicate their views at the meeting.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive The role of the Chairman is separate from that of the Group Newly appointed Directors who have not previously held listed Chief Executive.
Their respective roles and responsibilities company board appointments, receive appropriate external have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
An induction process, which includes site visits, has The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions to been developed for newly appointed Directors to ensure achieve overall Board and individual Directors effectiveness, that they are aware of their responsibilities and are properly whereas the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the apprised of the Groups activities and strategic direction.
operational implementation of the strategy and policies In addition, the Company has an induction and ongoing agreed by the Board.
Matters are referred to the Board as training programme, which covers generic induction for a whole and no one individual or small group of individuals new Board members and arrangements for individual has unfettered powers of decision.
coaching and annual best practice updates for all Board and Committee members where appropriate, including briefings Board balance and independence from time to time from the Auditors, the Companys legal All Directors bring an independent judgement to bear on advisers, and the Remuneration advisers.
These arrangements issues of strategy, performance, resources, including key are designed to ensure that Directors skills, knowledge and appointments and standards of conduct.
In addition to the familiarity with the Company are kept up to date to enable Chairman, the Board currently has six Non-executive Directors them to fulfil their role both on the Board and on its who bring to the Group a wide diversity of experience and committees.
Ongoing training is provided by a combination expertise.
Peter Johnson is not regarded as independent of internal and external resources.
The Board is given business because of his previous tenure as Group Chief Executive.
presentations from the heads of business units and Directors Raymond Chien is not regarded as independent because he make site visits.
The Boards schedule includes at least one previously had a service contract with Crown Motors Limited, meeting each year at one of the Groups operational 30 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued locations where the Board is given presentations on the the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Groups operations and Directors have the opportunity the Director of Audit and Risk Management and the to visit the operations and meet local management.
external auditors attend by invitation of the Committee.
There is a procedure for Directors to take independent In light of Ken Hannas qualifications as a Chartered professional advice at the Companys expense where Accountant and his experience with Coopers & Lybrand, relevant to the execution of their duties, although no Compass Partners and Cadbury Schweppes, and Will Samuels Director felt it necessary during the year.
The Group Company qualifications as a Chartered Accountant and his experience Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures with Lazard and Edinburgh Investment Trust, the Board has are complied with and for advising the Board through the determined that they have recent and relevant financial Chairman on all other governance matters.
of the Board have access to his services and advice.
The Non-executive Directors on the Committee have The appointment and removal of the Group Company the opportunity at each meeting to review any issues with Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
the external auditors and with the Director of Audit and Risk Management without members of the executive Performance evaluation management being present.
The 2006 evaluation was conducted by the JCA Group, who are independent external advisors.
All members of the Board Role: The Committee meets at least three times a year.
were interviewed individually by the JCA Group to test the It is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial Boards view of its performance and governance.
A synthesis statements of the Company and any formal announcement of the Boards evaluation together with recommendations for relating to its financial performance, reviewing internal consideration are discussed by the Board and by each of the financial controls and internal control and risk management committees in respect of their own performance.
The results of systems, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the the evaluation of each Director are communicated to them internal audit function, making recommendations to the Board individually by the Chairman.
The evaluation process includes in relation to the appointment and removal of the external a review of the Matters Reserved for the Boards decision and auditor, reviewing the external auditors independence and a review of each committees Terms of Reference.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, and for policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply The 2006 evaluation found that the Board and its committees non-audit services.
It is also responsible for reviewing the were generally performing effectively but there were ways in Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns which performance could be improved.
The issues which were confidentially about possible improprieties in relation to raised have been discussed and are being addressed.
financial reporting or other matters.
In order to fulfil its duties, The Non-executive Directors are responsible for performance the Audit Committee receives and challenges presentations evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views or reports from the Groups senior management, consulting of the Executive Directors.
as necessary with the external auditors.
Election and re-election Part of the Committees responsibility in relation to external Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period auditors is to keep their independence and objectivity and the of three years, which may be extended by agreement with nature and extent of the non-audit services they provide under the Board.
All Directors currently on the Board have submitted regular review.
The Committee has established policies and themselves for election or re-election as applicable within procedures in relation to the provision of non-audit services the last three years, as required by the Companys Articles by the external auditors pursuant to which external auditors of Association.
services are not permitted on areas such as internal audit, When considering the election or re-election of a Director, appraisal or valuation services and financial information the Nomination Committee takes into account the review of systems design implementation.
Financial limits are imposed his or her performance.
This is particularly rigorous in the case on permitted areas of non-audit work, such as tax advice.
of a Non-executive Director for any term beyond six years.
A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit A similar process is applied when considering the appointment services is provided in note 3c on page 63. or reappointment of a Director to each of the principal committees.
Nomination Committee The membership of the Committee is shown on page 25.
Board committees During the year the majority of members comprised The Board has three principal committees, all with written Terms Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
of Reference which are available on the Companys website www.
The Group Company Secretary serves No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and the as secretary to all three committees.
members, is entitled to be present at meetings of the Committee, although others including the Group Human Audit Committee Resources Director, attend by invitation of the Committee.
The membership of the Committee is shown on page 25.
During the year, the Committee comprised wholly Role: The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year.
Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
It is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
Before the No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and the Board makes an appointment, the Committee evaluates the members, is entitled to be present at meetings of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board Committee, although others, including the Chairman, and, in light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the 31 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 role and capabilities required for a particular appointment The Company makes constructive use of the AGM in in consultation with an external search consultant, who is accordance with the Code.
Private investors are encouraged appointed to work with the Committee.
The consultant to participate in the meeting at which the Chairman prepares a list of potential candidates which is discussed comments on the performance and outlook for the Company by the Committee and reduced to a shortlist.
The shortlist and the Group Chief Executive makes a presentation on candidates then meet with a panel of Committee members operational and strategic issues.
Peter Johnson, Chairman and other Directors also have the opportunity to meet the of the Nomination Committee, Ken Hanna, Chairman of the candidates.
Following this, and in the light of feedback Audit Committee, and Michael Wemms, Chairman of the received, the Committee meets to finalise a recommendation Remuneration Committee, will be available to answer to the Board.
A Director may be consulted by the Committee shareholder questions.
in the course of the process to appoint his successor but it is the Remuneration report policy of the Board that he does not participate in the decision The Companys policy on executive remuneration with details on the appointment.
of the Executive Directors salaries, annual bonuses, long term During the course of the year, the Committee met to consider incentives and pensions, and fees for the Non-executive the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the Directors appears in the Board report on remuneration skills, knowledge and experience available.
It also undertook on pages 33 to 40. its annual review of development and succession plans.
Internal control In addition, the Committee made recommendations for The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing the election and re-election of Directors retiring at the key procedures designed to achieve a sound system 2007 AGM.
No Directors participated in the meeting when of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
recommendations regarding his or her election or re-election Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute were considered.
assurance against any material misstatement or loss and Remuneration Committee cannot eliminate business risk.
It is the responsibility of the The membership of the Committee is shown on page 25.
Audit Committee to monitor and review internal controls, with its Chairman reporting the results of such reviews to the Board.
At all times during the year, the Committee comprised wholly In addition, the Board has entrusted executive management Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
with responsibility for implementing internal control procedures.
No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and the The Group operates a Risk Management Strategy Group, members, is entitled to be present at meetings of the which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and includes, Committee, although others, including the Chairman, inter alia, the Group Finance Director, Group Company the Group Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Secretary, Group Legal Director, Group Information Systems Director, attend by invitation of the Committee.
Director, Group Treasury Director, Group Audit Director and Role: The Remuneration Committee meets at least two times the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Management Strategy Group a year.
It is responsible for remuneration issues regarding the meets quarterly to consider what changes to risk management Chairman, Executive Directors and certain senior executives and control processes should be recommended.
Its review within the framework recommended by the Committee and covers matters such as responses to significant risks that have approved by the Board.
More details are given in the Board been identified, output from monitoring processes, including report on remuneration on pages 33 to 40. internal audit reports, and changes to be made to the internal control system.
It also follows up on areas that require Communication with shareholders improvement and reports back to the Audit Committee.
The Company encourages two way communication with its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to The Group Chief Executive also reports to the Board, on behalf all queries received verbally or in writing.
The preliminary and of executive management, significant changes in the Groups interim results are presented publicly to analysts and other business and the external environment in which it operates.
meetings with shareholders are arranged as appropriate.
In addition, the Group Finance Director provides the Board with The Company has an established Investor Relations monthly financial information, which includes key performance programme in the course of which the Group Chief Executive and risk indicators.
The Groups key internal control and and the Group Finance Director have regular meetings monitoring procedures include the following.
with major shareholders to update them on the Companys Financial reporting progress and to discuss any issues that investors may have.
There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual During these meetings, shareholders are reminded of the budget approved by the Directors.
Monthly actual results availability of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and are reviewed and reported against the budget and, where Senior Independent Non-executive Director, and the rest appropriate, revised forecasts at each of the Boards of the Board if they wish to meet them.
Any issues arising at scheduled meetings.
such meetings are reported and considered by the Board.
In addition, the Companys stockbrokers obtain shareholder Monitoring systems feedback on a confidential basis from major investors following Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on its the meetings and this is reported in summary and considered examination and evaluation of the adequacy and at Board meetings.
The Chairman has also written to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
largest fifteen shareholders emphasising his availability Internal Audit also works closely with management and that of the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent and the external auditors.
Non-executive Director and the rest of the Board, including new Non-executive Directors, should they wish to meet.
32 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance report continued Operating unit controls Directors responsibilities The overall control framework for the Group is detailed in The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the Group Finance and Information Systems manuals and is report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the supplemented by risk management policies.
Compliance Financial statements in accordance with applicable law with Group policies and the effectiveness of internal controls and regulations.
are regularly assessed through the audit process and through Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial a process of self certification, which requires business unit statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors management to assess annually the quality of internal controls have prepared the Group Financial statements in accordance in their businesses.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Risk management adopted by the European Union, and the parent company The Groups management operates a risk management Financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report process, which identifies the key risks facing each business unit.
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom A risk register, which identifies the key risks, the impact should Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted they occur and actions being taken to manage those risks to Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent company the desired level, is produced for each business unit.
In financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair addition, actions to be taken in the event that such risks view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they are the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
This information is passed up the In preparing those Financial statements, the Directors are organisation, culminating in the production of a Group Risk required to: Register, which is approved by the Risk Management Strategy Group and the Executive Committee.
In addition, it is provided select suitable accounting policies and then apply to and discussed with the Audit Committee.
Internal audit them consistently: continuously review financial, commercial and systems make judgements and estimates that are reasonable developments in the Groups business units to ensure and prudent: appropriate audit focus in the major risk areas.
state that the Group Financial statements comply with IFRSs Investment appraisal as adopted by the European Union and with regard to the The Group has clearly defined policies for capital expenditure.
Company financial statements that, applicable UK These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal and Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to review procedures.
any material departures disclosed and explained in the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control financial statements systems in operation during the financial year in accordance prepare the Group and Company Financial statements on with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report, through the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume the processes set out above.
As part of the process that the that the Company and the Group will continue in business, Company has in place to review the effectiveness of the in which case there should be supporting assumptions or internal control system, there are procedures designed to qualifications as necessary.
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those categorised by the Board assignificant, The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above procedures exist to ensure that necessary remedial action requirements in preparing the Financial statements.
is taken The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Auditors independence records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The Company has an established policy on the provision of the financial position of the Company and the Group and non-audit services by the external auditors.
Through its Audit enable them to ensure that the Group Financial statements Committee, the Company has reviewed a report from its comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS auditors,  LLP PwC, confirming, in Regulation and the Company financial statements and the their professional judgement, their independence.
The review Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies included the audit, audit related, tax and advisory services Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the provided by PwC, and compliance with the Group policy assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking which prescribes the types of engagements for which external reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud auditors may be used.
The Committee also noted that the and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for audit partner is subject to a five year fixed term rotation the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Having regard to the policy on the The work carried out by the auditors does not involve engagement of external auditors for non-audit services, and consideration of these matters, and accordingly the auditors the report from the auditors, the Company concluded that accept no responsibility for any changes that may have there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure occurred to the Financial statements since they were initially the continued level of independence.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal Statement of compliance with the Combined Code requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation The Company was in compliance with the Code throughout and dissemination of financial statements may differ from the year ended 31 December 2006. legislation in other jurisdictions.
