Combined Code Compliance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 the Company was in compliance with all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors Remuneration Report, explain how the Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval is reviewed and updated annually.
The specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: approving the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: approving the Groups annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies of the Group: approving appointments to and removals from the Board and of the Company Secretary: and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
The Board has delegated the following activities to the Executive Directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments against plans and objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive is clearly defined.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and for effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance.
The Chief Executive is also primarily responsible for developing and articulating the Companys strategy and for day-to-day dealings with shareholders, particularly following the interim and year-end results announcements.
Senior Independent Director Mr Mapp has been designated the Senior Independent Director since 10 March 2005 and is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors and Directors Independence As of 31 December 2006 the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors, together with their brief biographical details, are given on pages 40 and 41.
All Directors have served throughout 2006.
The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board has considered the independence of Mr Watson with particular care in view of his position as a partner at the law firm of CMS Cameron McKenna, one of several legal advisers used by the Company.
The Board does not consider the relationship between the Company and the law firm to be of a material nature given that the transaction values between the two entities have not exceeded 1% of their respective total revenues during each of the three years ended 31 December 2006.
In addition, Mr Watson does not lead any transaction or have any active role in any work undertaken by the law firm on behalf of the Company.
There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order to carry out their responsibilities.
The other significant professional commitments of the Chairman, Mr Hooper, are summarised on page 40.
48 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Combined Code Compliance continued Professional Development On appointment the Directors receive relevant information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board committees and the powers delegated to those committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
On appointment Directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business and the environment in which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group, which affect themselves as Directors and are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
Performance Evaluation The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual Directors, with particular attention to those who are due for re-appointment.
On appointment the Directors are made aware that their performance will be subject to evaluation.
For 2006 the evaluation was performed by the Chairman who conducted a series of focused interviews with each member of the Board in his or her capacity as a Director and, where applicable, as a member or Chairman of a principal committee.
The findings and recommendations of the review were presented to the Board as a whole, with a view to implementing any recommendations made to improve the overall effectiveness of the Board during 2007.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also met without the Chairman present to conduct an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Re-election Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance evaluation, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period ending on the date of the Companys next AGM and thereafter subject to annual review and re-election.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters and all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Information Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
Relations with Shareholders In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations under the Code, the Chairman provides the Board with feedback on any issues raised with him by shareholders.
In addition, the Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
These include meetings with the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following the announcement of the Groups interim and annual results.
In addition, the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
Following meetings held with shareholders after the interim and annual results announcements, the Board receives feedback from each of the Chief Executive, the Groups brokers and its public relations advisers on investor perceptions.
External analysts reports on the Group are also circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports of significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
The Annual General Meeting AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice is given and where shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and are able to meet with the Directors after the meeting, is normally attended by all the Directors.
The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Groups corporate website at www.
com contains a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors, including any announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange as well as video recordings of the interim and annual presentations made to analysts.
49 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Combined Code Compliance continued Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance on internal control published in October 2005, the Board regularly reviews this process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this Report.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high-level internal control arrangements.
The Boards monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks have been identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed an assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the Report including the work of Group Internal Control consisting of Business Risk and Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
The Directors view the careful management of risk as a key management activity.
The risk assessment process has been embedded through the annual planning cycle into the operations of the Group and identifies the significant risks.
The Executive Directors discuss the results of these assessments with operational management during planning presentations.
In addition, the results are also consolidated and presented to the Companys Risk Committee for discussion and review, and drive the allocation of Group Internal Control resource to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
Board Meetings and Committees The number of scheduled Board meetings and committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee meetings of 8 meetings of 2 meetings of 4 meetings of 3 R Hooper 7 2 1 P Rigby 8 D Gilbertson 8 A Foye 8 D Mapp 8243 S Watson 7242 P Kirby 824 J Davis 63 Mr Hooper was not a member of the Remuneration Committee during the period prior to 1 December 2006 in which the other meetings were held.
He was appointed on 1 December 2006 on the basis that he was independent on his appointment as Chairman, and therefore eligible, following a change made to the Code, to sit on this Committee.
Nomination Committee The Company has established a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
The membership of the Nomination Committee throughout 2006 comprised the Chairman and all the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee considers the mix of skills and experience that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of Directors who meet those requirements to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee met twice during 2006, in each case under the Chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, for the purpose of: 1 deciding to appoint Mr Hooper as a member of the Remuneration Committee: and 2 discussing and resolving who should succeed Mr Hooper as Chairman upon his planned retirement from the Board at the AGM to be held in May 2007.
The latter process began by identifying the core competencies and attributes required of the candidate to fill the role.
The current structure of the Companys board leadership team was considered, in particular the relationship of the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Managing Director and Finance Director.
As a result it was concluded that the current Chief Executive, Mr Rigby, should be asked to become Chairman and Mr Gilbertson should be asked to become Chief Executive with his existing position of Managing Director to be abolished.
It was also concluded that the current Board should retain only three Executive Directors but that a fifth Non-Executive Director should be appointed.
The Nominations Committee would meet again for this purpose following the outcome of the consultation process with the six largest shareholders in relation to the proposal concerning Mr Rigby and Mr Gilbertson.
50 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Combined Code Compliance continued Remuneration Committee The membership of the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 53 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Groups website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: set, review and recommend to the Board for approval the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors: set, review and approve the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors including terms and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and approve the introduction and rules of any Group share-based incentive schemes.
Audit Committee The membership of the Audit Committee throughout 2006 comprised Mr Mapp Chairman of Committee, Mr Watson and Mr Davis.
The Audit Committee has at least one member possessing recent and relevant experience, as described in the Smith Report appended to the Code.
Mr Mapp has extensive experience of audit committee procedures, and Mr Davis is a qualified chartered accountant and the Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc, a FTSE 100 company.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups system of internal controls and the process for monitoring and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of the Group Internal Control function consisting of Business Risk Management and Internal Audit and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
The Committee meets as appropriate with the Executive Directors and management, as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
In 2006 the Committee discharged its responsibilities primarily by: reviewing the Groups draft preliminary and interim results statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: reviewing the Groups pre-close period updates prior to their release: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups financial statements of matters such as the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: recommending to the full Board, which adopted the recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups external auditors: reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups accounts, which included key areas of scope of work: key risks on the accounts: confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness: reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage risks: reviewing the ongoing reports from Business Risk Management: and reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance of significant recent acquisitions compared to plans.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups whistle blowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
51 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Combined Code Compliance continued Auditor Independence and Objectivity The Audit Committee regularly monitors the scope of the services and the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors to review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration the relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
Any activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement.
Corporate Responsibility At Informa the Group endeavours to practise its business with integrity, respecting the different cultures, dignity and rights of individuals everywhere it operates.
Mr Keith Brownlie has served throughout 2006 as Corporate Responsibility CR Director, reporting to Mr Rigby, Chief Executive.
Four subcommittees address CR issues, covering Workplace, Marketplace, Community and Environment.
The head of each of these sub-committees is a member of the CR Committee, along with Messrs Rigby and Brownlie.
The sub-committees meet regularly and have targeted their short, medium and long term actions, which have been agreed by the CR Committee.
Further details are included within Informa Corporate Responsibility Update 2006 CR Update available on the Groups website at www.
The Company has been a constituent member of the FTSE4Good index throughout the year.
Informas business tenets, which are detailed in its 2006 CR Update, are: experiencing Informas brand values: providing the business with core business differentiators: leveraging its internal expertise: and improving its profits.
Reflecting these, the Group summarises its primary focuses as being: living out its corporate values: maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance: investing in the human and intellectual capital of its business: creating responsible intellectual output: meeting the expectations of its customers, partners and shareholders: being responsible members of the societies in which it operates: and using sustainable materials, conserving energy and water and minimising wastage wherever practicable.
The Group has committed itself to harmonising relevant CR policies across the business, engaging with major stakeholders and collecting good quality data in order to build its reputation as a responsible organisation and a great place to work.
Informas Global Staff satisfaction survey for 2006 focused on the introduction of the Informa values developed in 2005.
Divisional executives have been tasked with developing initiatives in order to improve the satisfactions scores in areas that were weakest.
These initiatives were presented to senior management as part of the wider budgeting cycle.
Informas CR objectives in 2007 include the conduct of another global employee satisfaction survey in order to show demonstrable changes in employee satisfaction between 2006 and 2007.
Proposed Changes On 15 May 2007, Mr Hooper will retire as Chairman and be replaced by Mr Rigby, the current Chief Executive.
Since this runs counter to the Code, the following changes to the Groups corporate governance shall be made: all Directors shall be subject to re-election at each AGM from 15 May 2007 onwards: the Senior Independent Director Mr Mapp will hold a review meeting with the Chairman and Chief Executive separately at least quarterly: the Senior Independent Director will have his own reporting section in the Annual Report, starting with the 2007 Annual Report: the Senior Independent Director will chair a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors each year to evaluate the performance of the Executive Directors.
This will be coordinated with the Board evaluation to be carried out by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director and the Chairmans evaluation to be carried out by the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, in the first quarter of 2009, the Board proposes to commission an outside consultancy to carry out the board evaluation working with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
This will specifically include consulting certain shareholders about any concerns they might have with the Boards structure that would have been in place since 15 May 2007.
52 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
