26 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, a project has been undertaken to identify, out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code evaluate and test key financial controls across all our business and considers that the Company has complied with the Code units.
This should enable appropriate representations regarding requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2006. the effectiveness of internal financial controls to be made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F which will be filed with As InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs shares are listed on the SEC in compliance with these US obligations for the December the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject 2006 year end.
to the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
A statement outlining With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure the differences between the Companys corporate governance against every risk to the fullest extent.
The insurance market practices and those followed by US companies may be found on remains difficult both as to breadth and cost of coverage and in the Companys website at www.
com investors as required some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at an by the SEC.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude Control environment of the risks involved.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the Board and Committee structure procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
and Committee structure operates as set out below.
Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, the Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Executive The Board Committees have established processes, as part of the normal The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, good management of the business, to monitor: four Executive and six Non-Executive Directors meets the requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive of Group and regional strategic reviews: Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive financial performance, within a comprehensive financial Directors are independent.
planning and accounting framework: The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore and authorisation processes: and approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
It risk management, through an ongoing process, which has reviews significant investment proposals and the performance been in place up to the date of the accounts providing of past investments and maintains an overview and control of assurance through reports from both the Head of Risk the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors Management and the Head of Internal Audit that the significant the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary financial and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a schedule of matters which are reserved for its attention and decision.
These may be found In addition, the Audit Committee receives: on the Companys website.
reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work carried out The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of under the annual internal audit plan, including an annual report Directors, and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive on the operation of the monitoring processes set out above to have been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
support the Boards annual statement on internal control: and reports from the external auditor.
The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas and it is the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2006, Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the taking account of any material developments which have taken required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, in a place since the year end.
The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
Corporate governance IHG The Board, senior management and their responsibilities 27 Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and further The following were Directors of the Company during the year: meetings are held as needed.
The regular Board meetings were Position Date of original 1 held, as planned, during 2006.
These were attended by all Directors appointment with the exception that Ralph Kugler and Sir Howard Stringer could David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 15.4.
03 not attend one meeting each.
Despite being unable to attend a Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive 3.2.
05 meeting, these Directors were provided with all the papers and Richard Solomons Finance Director 10.2.
03 information relevant to that meeting and were able to discuss Richard Hartman President, Europe, matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
03 It is unavoidable that, from time to time, particularly given the other Stevan Porter President, The Americas 15.4.
03 corporate and international responsibilities of the very experienced David Kappler Non-Executive Director people concerned, individual Non-Executive Directors may be and Senior Independent Director 21.6.
04 unable to attend a Board meeting.
Any such non-attendance is Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 occasional and the Board is satisfied that all Directors remain Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 25.8.
05 committed to their roles and responsibilities.
03 All Directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 1.12.05 advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
Their Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular 2 Sir Howard Stringer Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 business presentations outside Board meetings and visits to the 1 The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, entailed regions.
At least two Board meetings a year are held overseas.
the insertion of a new parent company of the Group.
All Directors serving at that time signed new letters of appointment effective from that date.
The A formal performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and dates shown above represent the original dates of appointment of each of the Directors to the Groups parent company.
Directors was undertaken shortly after the year end.
A third party 2 Sir Howard Stringer resigned as a Director of the Company on facilitator assists in the performance evaluation in alternate years.
For 2006 the evaluation was conducted internally.
Current Directors biographical details are set out on page 22 The 2006 evaluation, including that of the Chief Executive, involved of this Report.
These include their main external commitments.
the Chairman holding one-to-one meetings with each Director and the Company Secretary.
A number of areas for assessment On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction had been identified by the Chairman in advance of these meetings, programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to and these were used as a framework for the discussions.
The introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal effectiveness of changes made to the Boards processes and activities of the Group and with central and regional management.
procedures following the evaluation for 2005 was one of the areas Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for discussed.
any Executive Director who may join the Group.
These induction programmes accord with the guidelines referred to in the The Chairman reported to the Board and facilitated a discussion Combined Code.
The updating of all Directors skills and knowledge of the findings.
The Board concluded that it was operating in is a progressive exercise.
This is accomplished at Board and an effective manner but identified some areas where further strategy meetings, through presentations and visits to hotels and improvements could be made.
However, they noted that points other business premises, and through contact with employees raised during the previous year had been satisfactorily addressed.
With regard to the performance of individual Directors, following the evaluation process, the Chairman concluded that each Director Chairman continues to make an effective contribution to the work of the David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
Board, is well prepared and informed concerning items to be He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited.
considered by the Board, has a good understanding of the Groups businesses and retains a strong commitment to the role.
The Chairman carries responsibility for ensuring the efficient operation of the Board and its Committees, for seeing that During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met together without corporate governance matters are addressed, and for representing the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of the Senior the Group externally and communicating particularly with Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
He also ensures that Directors receive a full, formal The outcome of this appraisal was positive.
and tailored induction to the Group and its businesses and that all The work and effectiveness during the year of the Audit, Directors are fully informed of relevant matters, working closely Remuneration and Nomination Committees were also evaluated, with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and the results were reported to the Board.
The reviews concluded also meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive that each Committee was operating in an effective manner.
28 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Corporate governance Chief Executive Committees Andrew Cosslett was Chief Executive throughout the year.
He has Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which responsibility to recommend to the Board and to implement the have been approved by the Board and which are subject to review Groups strategic objectives.
He is responsible for the executive every year.
Andrew Cosslett is Non-Executive Executive Committee This Committee is chaired by the Chairman of Duchy Originals Limited.
He receives no remuneration Chief Executive.
It consists of the Executive Directors and senior for this role.
The Board is satisfied that this additional commitment executives from the Group and the regions and usually meets has no adverse impact on the successful fulfilment of his duties monthly.
Its role is to consider and manage a range of important to IHG.
strategic and business issues facing the Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the regional Hotels businesses.
It is Senior Independent Director authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within levels David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the agreed by the Board.
It reviews and recommends to the Board the year.
His responsibilities include being available to liaise with most significant investment proposals.
shareholders who have issues to raise and leading the performance Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler evaluation of the Chairman.
who has significant recent and relevant financial experience and is the Committees financial expert.
Throughout 2006, the other Non-Executive Directors Committee members were Sir David Prosser, Ralph Kugler and A team of experienced independent Non-Executive Directors Jennifer Laing.
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least four represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
The Committee met five times in the year.
These currently six such Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive meetings were attended by all Committee members, with the Chairman, each of whom has significant external commercial exception that Ralph Kugler could not attend one meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, Audit Committees role is described on page 30. meet during the year to consider the Groups business and Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired management.
by Sir David Prosser, also comprises the following Non-Executive Robert C Larson was first appointed to the Board of the Groups Directors: David Kappler, Robert C Larson, Jonathan Linen and, predecessor parent company, Bass PLC, in 1996.
Mr Larson may until 10 November 2006, Sir Howard Stringer.
It meets at least therefore be regarded as having served for over nine years as a three times a year.
Its role is described on page 31.
The Combined Code requires such Directors to be subject met four times during the year.
Sir Howard Stringer was unable to to rigorous performance review, and to be subject to election attend two meetings.
The formal performance evaluation referred to above has Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees quorum confirmed Mr Larsons ongoing valuable contribution and he is now comprises any three Non-Executive Directors although, where subject to annual election by shareholders.
The transformed possible, all Non-Executive Directors are present.
It is chaired by structure of the Group, and of the parent company Board, since the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference reflect the 1996, have also ensured that the length of Mr Larsons service has principal duties of a Nomination Committee proposed as good no bearing on his independence.
practice and referred to in the Combined Code.
The Committee Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity of continuing is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, professional development during the year and of gaining further candidates for appointment to the Board, and also for succession insight into the Groups business.
During 2006, visits to operating planning.
The Committee generally engages external consultants premises, including hotels across the brand portfolio, were to advise on candidates for Board appointments.
In addition, the training requirements of the and objective selection criteria are prepared in advance of any Non-Executive Directors are kept under review.
The Committee also assists the Board in identifying and developing the role of the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee formally met once during the year.
Sir David Prosser Company Secretary and Sir Howard Stringer were unable to attend this meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Richard Winter.
His responsibilities include ensuring Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee, chaired good information flows to the Board and its Committees and by the Groups Financial Controller, and comprising the between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
Company Secretary and other senior executives, reports to He facilitates the induction of Directors, the regular updating and the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, and to the refreshing of their skills and knowledge, and he assists them in Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that information fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represent and generally for keeping the Board up to date on all legal, the Groups position in all material respects.
He also has responsibility for developing the Groups position on Corporate Social Responsibility.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
Corporate governance IHG The Board, senior management and their responsibilities 29 General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee Shareholder relations comprises any two Executive Directors or any one Executive The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its Director together with a senior officer from an agreed and half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by a Director.
and the Finance Director give presentations on these results to It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone dial-in of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these the Board or an appropriate Committee.
In addition, there are telephone conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
The data used in these presentations and conferences is placed on Re-election of Directors the website www.
com corporate The Companys Articles provide that only those Directors who have not been subject to election by shareholders within the last three IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with its years, need retire and stand for re-election at the next Annual major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to General Meeting.
In 2007, only two Directors fall into this category.
discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the However, in the spirit of good governance the Board has decided business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the that shareholders should have the opportunity to vote on the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are appointment of one-third of the full Board, and therefore Sir David available to meet with major shareholders to understand their Prosser, Richard Solomons and David Webster will retire by rotation issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Any and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting new Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as on 1 June 2007. a matter of course.
In addition, Robert C Larson, having attained the age of 70 and Additionally, the Annual General Meeting provides a useful interface also in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, is with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
The now subject to annual retirement and re-election, if he wishes to Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees continue to serve as a Director.
Special notice has been given to the are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Company in connection with a resolution to propose his re-election Information about the Group is maintained and available to to the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders with A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the this Report, provides further information about the Directors Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the standing for election and re-election.
Details of the Executive Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations activities.
Directors service contracts are set out on page 34.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the six independent Non-Executive Further information Directors have letters of appointment.
The terms of reference of all the Committees were reviewed during the year and, in particular, the terms of reference of the Independent advice Audit, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees were reviewed There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may by the Board during 2006 to ensure that they continue to reflect take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their best practice.
Main Committee terms of reference are available duties and they have access to the advice and services of the on the Companys website www.
com corporate or from the Company Secretary.
Company Secretarys office on request.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are also available on request.
Third-party indemnities The Group has provided to all of its Directors, limited indemnities in respect of costs of defending claims against them, and third-party Richard Winter liabilities.
These are all qualifying third-party indemnity provisions Company Secretary for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 and are all currently 19 February 2007 in force.
