6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 48 Ras Laffan B, Qatar In 2006 the effectiveness of the Board The Board has responsibility for the P P was underpinned by a balance of Groups system of internal control and for Executive and Non-Executive Directors monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness The Board is accountable to shareholders The Board has responsibility for defining P P for the performance and activities of strategy, ensuring the successful the Group implementation of approved projects proposals and for the financial policies of the Group 48 Corporate governance First Hydro, UK 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 12:01 Page 49 Corporate governance We are committed to high standards of corporate governance and in this section set out how we comply with the principles in the Combined Code, and explain our reasons for any areas of non-compliance.
The Board Board Audit Remuneration Appointments 7 meetings Committee Committee Committee 1 In 2006 the effectiveness of the Board was underpinned by a balance 5 meetings 4 meetings 1 meeting between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that Sir Neville Simms 7 n a 4 1 it has the skills and experience necessary to provide effective leadership and control of the Company.
Philip Cox 7 n a n a n a Jack Taylor retired from the Board on 17 May, 2006 and, on 18 May Adri Baan 7 5 4 1 2006, John Roberts was appointed a Non-Executive Director.
There Tony Concannon 7 n a n a n a were no other changes during the year.
At the end of the year the 2 Board comprised of the Chairman Sir Neville Simms, Executive Tony Isaac 6 5 3 1 Directors Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley Bruce Levy 7 n a n a n a and Bruce Levy and four Non-Executive Directors Tony Isaac, Steve Riley 7 n a n a n a Adri Baan, John Roberts and Struan Robertson.
Sir Neville Simms was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman and 3 John Roberts 3 2 1 the four Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent.
Struan Robertson 7 4 4 1 Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent Director.
4 Jack Taylor 3 2 2 n a The structure of the Board is not in strict compliance with the Combined Code in that the number of Non-Executive Directors is Mark Williamson 7 n a n a n a less than the number of Executive Directors.
However, the Directors consider that the Board currently works effectively to carry out its duties 1.
In 2006 the Audit Committee held three main meetings relating to the preliminary statement, the interim statement and audit planning.
All members of the Committee attended these and that the Non-Executive Directors have a strong independent meetings.
The remainder of the meetings related to quarterly reports and US reporting issues.
presence at Board meetings to provide an effective counter balance 2.
Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting during 2006 to the Executive Directors.
The size and structure of the Board is due to an overriding business commitment.
He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to each of the chairmen prior to the meetings.
John Roberts joined the Board on 18 May 2006.
He has attended all Board and committee meetings since that date except one Board meeting and one meeting each of the Audit, Remuneration and Appointments Committees which was due to a pre-existing commitment at the time of his appointment.
For all the meetings he missed, he passed his comments on the relevant papers to each of the chairmen, prior to the meetings.
Jack Taylor retired from the Board on 17 May 2006.
He attended all Board and committee meetings up to the date of his retirement.
Annual Report 2006 49 Uch, Pakistan 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 12:01 Page 50 The full Board met seven times during 2006.
Attendance by Directors Groups assets and briefings are also given at Board meetings on at these and the Board committee meetings held during the year are particular parts of the business, including regional and functional detailed in the table on page 49. reviews.
In January 2007 the Board visited the Groups business in the Middle East where it met the regional management team and received In addition to the Board and committee meetings, a meeting of the a briefing about the local business operations.
Directors are also kept Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors was held without the informed of changes to the regulatory regime such as the revisions to Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also the Combined Code, the new Companies Act and Transparency met without the Chairman being present.
This meeting was chaired by Directive and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
All of the Directors have Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent Director, and included a review of access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also the Chairmans performance.
to external independent advice should they so wish.
Board membership Insurance In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles The Company has in place appropriate insurance cover in respect of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-election every of legal action against its Directors.
three years and newly appointed Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
In addition, the Operation of the Board Board seeks to maintain a balance between continuity and new blood amongst the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, ensuring the successful implementation of approved projects proposals and for the financial In accordance with this policy, Jack Taylor stepped down as a Nonpolicies of the Group.
It also reviews the risk policies and profile of the Executive Director at the 2006 AGM and, following a search carried Group.
It maintains a schedule of all matters requiring specific Board out by an external agency, John Roberts was appointed in his place approval.
Throughout 2006 this included all strategy decisions and immediately following the AGM and will submit himself for re-election significant capital investment proposals and acquisitions.
receives information on capital expenditure projects and investment In addition three Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the proposals in advance of Board meetings, as well as management reports 2007 AGM in accordance with the three year re-election policy.
They on the operational and financial performance of the business.
Financial are Sir Neville Simms, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon.
performance is monitored on a monthly basis and the overall performance of the Group is reviewed against approved budgets.
Board training At least once a year, the CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly appointed Directors the Board for review and approval.
Each investment decision is made receive a comprehensive briefing on the Company, and training is in the context of this plan.
provided for Directors on their roles and their legal obligations to The Board has established business values and standards for the ensure that they are fully conversant with their responsibilities as Company, which provide a framework for the Company to balance Directors.
In accordance with this policy John Roberts met all the the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business.
members of the Executive Management team individually, over a period The business values FIRST are set out in brief in the CEOs statement of two days.
In addition he has received guided visits to two power section of this Annual Report.
The Companys Code of Business stations in the UK, so that he has a good understanding of the business Conduct has been formally adopted by the Board and is set out on the of the company.
A programme of continuous training is also provided Companys website.
This code includes a whistle blowing procedure.
Periodically the Board meets at the site of one of the 50 Corporate governance 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 24 07 11:26 Page 51 In respect of Board performance for 2006, the Board, following the Board committees assessment of Board performance in 2005 by an external facilitator, The Company has established the following committees: the Audit decided to carry out this assessment internally for 2006.
A questionnaire Committee: the Remuneration Committee: and the Appointments was circulated to the Directors and was discussed in two separate Committee.
No person other than a committee member is entitled to meetings one with Executive Directors and the other with Nonattend the meetings of these Committees, except at the invitation of Executive Directors chaired by the Chairman and minuted by the the Committee.
The full terms of reference for each Committee are Company Secretary.
The meetings discussed overall Board performance, available on the Companys website.
the effectiveness of the Boards committees and the contributions of individual Directors.
The results of the review demonstrated that the Audit Committee Board members were satisfied with the operation of the Board.
The The Committee manages the relationship with the external auditor, contribution by individual Directors to Board and committee meetings including fixing the level of the auditors remuneration and the scope was considered to be high.
and adequacy of the audit.
The Committee also puts in place policies and procedures to ensure that the external auditor remains independent.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Committee reviews all financial reports preliminary statement, There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company Annual Report, Form 20-F, interim statement and quarterly reports between the roles of the Chairman and the CEO.
The Chairman is including consideration of the Groups accounting policies and major responsible for the leadership and effective operation of the Board, in judgemental areas.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the terms of its agenda, decision making and the utilisation of the skills and Groups systems of internal control, and reviews the scope and the experience of the Directors.
He monitors, with the assistance of the annual plan of the internal audit function and satisfies itself of its Company Secretary, the information provided to the Board to ensure adequacy, particularly in terms of resources and its performance against that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
The Chairman is also its annual plan.
In addition it reviews the report prepared by the Risk responsible for ensuring that there is effective engagement and Committee to ensure all relevant risks are addressed in these external communication with shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for the and internal audit processes.
The Committee has also reviewed the running of the Company, and leading the executive and operational Companys Sarbanes-Oxley compliance programme to ensure that the teams in implementing the strategies approved by the Board.
Companys internal control system and safeguards are such that they Philip Cox is also a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
His comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
remuneration from this role is retained by him.
His remuneration During 2006 the Audit Committee was comprised of all the for the year ended 31 March 2006 was 41,000. independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committee Chairman is Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the Chartered Non-Executive Directors and their function Institute of Management Accountants and, before becoming Chief Through membership of the Board committees, the Non-Executive Executive of The BOC Group plc, was its Group Finance Director.
Directors have responsibilities for: overseeing that systems of internal The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
control and risk management are appropriate and effective: managing Time was set aside for the Committee to meet the external auditor the relationship with the external auditor: evaluating the performance of and the head of internal audit without executive management present.
management in meeting targets and objectives: setting the remuneration In addition to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at of Executive Directors: appointing Executive Directors: and planning the Audit Committee meetings included representatives of the external senior management succession.
auditor, the Chairman, the CEO, CFO, other Executive Directors, the group controller and the head of internal audit.
Annual Report 2006 51 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 12:01 Page 52 International Power also runs, within the terms of the regulatory Remuneration Committee framework, frequent contact programmes with industry analysts and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for ensuring that the institutional investors to discuss matters of strategy and financial remuneration package of Executive Directors is maintained on a sensible performance.
Contact is made principally by the CEO and the CFO.
and comparative basis and enables the Company to compete effectively On issues of major importance the Chairman communicates with major for good calibre executives.
It monitors the performance of Executive shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Tony Directors against targets, it sets the performance conditions for Isaac is also available as an alternative point of contact if shareholders long-term incentive plan awards and reviews the remuneration levels have concerns over the Chairmans performance or where contact with and other conditions of service of senior managers, immediately below the Chairman or the use of other communication channels would Board level.
At each Board meeting, an update is given on The Committee comprises all of the independent Non-Executive movements in major shareholdings and on contact programmes Directors of the Company and the Chairman.
The Chairman of the between the Executive Directors and institutional shareholders.
Reports Committee is Adri Baan.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to issued by financial analysts on the Company are circulated to Board the Committee and the head of global resources acts as adviser to the members.
These summaries and reports enable the Directors to gain an Committee.
Towers Perrin acts as external adviser to the Committee.
understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Company.
All results presentations and Stock Exchange announcements Appointments Committee are available to shareholders on the Companys website.
The Appointments Committee is responsible for matters of management succession and the identification and appointment of Accountability and audit Directors.
It also reviews the Board structure, size and composition and The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced makes recommendations to the Board with regard to changes that are and understandable assessment of International Powers financial deemed desirable.
The Committee comprises of the Chairman and all position and prospects, both to investors and regulatory authorities.
of the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The The Annual Report, preliminary, interim and quarterly results Chairman of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms.
The Company announcements are the principal means of achieving this objective.
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and Relations with shareholders external auditor in connection with the financial statements is set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors confirm in the The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and Directors report their view that the Group is a going concern.
International Power ensures that its AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive comprehensive The Audit Committee has a process in place to approve all non-audit information on all aspects of the Groups business activities and to services provided by the external auditor to ensure that the objectivity question senior management about business issues and prospects.
and independence of the external auditor is not compromised.
In line with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our procedures All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes lodged for each specify the services from which the external auditor is excluded and resolution is reported at the AGM and on the Companys website.
the approval process for all other services.
In line with best practice, the Company aims to ensure that the notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
52 Corporate governance Rugeley, UK 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 53 Performance reporting and information Internal control Corporate plan Executive management submits an annual corporate The Board has responsibility for the Groups system of internal control plan to the Board for approval.
The plan for each business unit is and for monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
the quantified assessment of its planned operating and financial Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the Combined Code performance for the next financial year, together with strategic reviews and Turnbull Guidance and procedures and systems have been for the following four years.
Group management reviews the plans with implemented to ensure compliance with the requirements of the each operational team.
The individual plans are based on key economic Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
and financial assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the risk Any system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than and sensitivities underlying the projections.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The system Performance monitoring Monthly performance and financial reports can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against are produced for each business unit, with comparisons to budget.
material financial misstatement or loss.
The Board reviewed the internal Reports are consolidated for overall review by executive management, control procedures during 2006.
The principal features of the Groups together with forecasts for the income statement and cash flow.
systems of internal control are: Detailed reports are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Performance review Each business unit is subject to performance Control environment reviews with Group management regularly during the year.
Actual The Board encourages a culture of integrity and openness.
The results and forecasts for the year are compared to budget.
Key Company has an organisation structure with clear lines of accountability operational and financial results are reviewed together with the and authority across its worldwide operations, supported by appropriate risk profile and business environment of the reporting unit.
Each of the regional businesses is accountable to the CEO and is managed within the strategic guidelines and delegated Investment projects These are subject to formal review and authorities adopted by the Board.
An executive management team, authorisation procedures with designated levels of authority, including chaired by the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors, regional a review by an Investment Committee chaired by the CEO and directors and functional heads, meets regularly to discuss issues facing comprising the Executive Directors and senior managers.
projects are subject to Board review and approval.
Corporate reporting The Company has a Disclosure Committee Control procedures which is chaired by the Company Secretary and is comprised of Control procedures have been established in each of the Companys members from the internal audit, corporate communications, human operations to safeguard the Groups assets from loss or misuse and to resources, operations and engineering, company secretariat and financial ensure appropriate authorisation and recording of financial transactions.
It reviews the Annual Report, the Summary All acquisition and investment decisions are subject to disciplined Annual Report and Form 20-F, and also monitors compliance with investment appraisal processes.
Risk management procedures are in disclosures required under UK and US reporting regulations.
place for the Companys operations, including its energy marketing and trading activities, which are overseen by the Global Commodities Risk Committee, which comprises Executive Directors and senior management, and is chaired by the global risk manager.
The Group treasury function operates under defined policies and the oversight of the Treasury Committee, chaired by the CFO.
Annual Report 2006 53 Shedgum, Tihama, Saudi Arabia 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 12:01 Page 54 Risk identification and management Compliance with the Combined Code As outlined in the section Our approach to risk and risk management There were two areas where the Board was not fully compliant with there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the requirements of the revised Combined Code throughout 2006. the key risks faced by the Company.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Throughout 2006 there were more Executive Directors than NonRisk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and has responsibility, on Executive Directors.
The Board has reviewed the structure of the Board behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and has concluded there is no need at this time to appoint another and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and Non-Executive Director.
other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are The Senior Independent Director does not have a contact programme consistent with the Company strategy and objectives.
to communicate with institutional investors, primarily to avoid potential confusion over channels of communication.
During 2006 no Monitoring institutional shareholder has requested such communication.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of established internal controls In all other respects, the Company has complied with the provisions through the Audit Committee which receives reports from of the Combined Code throughout the period of the review.
management, the Risk Committee, the Groups internal audit function and the external auditor on the systems of internal control and risk US corporate governance compliance management arrangements.
There are no significant differences in corporate governance practices Internal audit reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk as undertaken by International Power as compared to those followed management through a work programme which is based on the by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards.
Companys objectives and risk profile and is agreed with the Audit The Company has securities registered in the US and, as a result, it is Committee.
Findings are reported to operational and executive required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act management, with periodic reporting to the Audit Committee.
2002 the Act as it applies to foreign private issuers.
The Board Business unit managers provide annual self-certification statements continues to monitor the new rules arising from the Act and reviewed of compliance with procedures.
These statements give assurance that the arrangements that were developed to ensure that the Company can controls are in operation and confirm that programmes are in place report on its systems of internal controls over financial reporting as to address any weaknesses in internal control.
The certification process required as at 31 December 2006. embraces all areas of material risk.
Internal audit reviews the statements on behalf of the Disclosure Committee and reports any significant issues to the Audit Committee.
54 Corporate governance 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 55 Levanto, Europe Annual Report 2006 55
