Directors report Corporate governance The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining high The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and on standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and to an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings by individual directors during the year is set out in the table below.
The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules of the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Financial Services Authority which require the Company, amongst Number of Meetings 21 11 8 3 other things, to make a statement on whether it has complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions set out in G P Balfour 21 11 8 3 1 Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Lord Blackwell 21 13 published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in July 2003 L G Cullen 20 10 8 3 2 the Combined Code.
In June 2006 the FRC introduced a S B Hagerty 12 revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which T C Jones 21 supersedes and replaces the Combined Code for reporting years N F Keegan 20 11 8 3 beginning on or after 1 November 2006 the New Combined A M Ringrose 21 3 Code.
The Company must also provide an explanation of how D A Trapnell 21 10 8 3 it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined J H Vyse 19 Code to enable its shareholders to evaluate how the principles 1 Lord Blackwell was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 31 August 2006. have been applied.
Where the Company has not complied with 2 Mr Hagerty left the Board on 20 July 2006. the Combined Code provisions it must specify which it has not complied with and where relevant for what part of the Mr Balfour is a director of Interserve Trustees Limited, the accounting period such non-compliance continued, giving reasons corporate trustee of the Interserve Pension Scheme, and his for any non-compliance.
interest is noted whenever pension matters are discussed.
The directors consider that the Company has complied with the The Group Chairman held two meetings with the non-executive provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting directors during the course of the year, without the executive period ended 31 December 2006.
Whilst not mandatory, the directors being present.
The non-executive directors also met Company also complied with the provisions of the New Combined twice during the year, under the chairmanship of Mr Balfour, Code during the period under review.
without either the Group Chairman or the executive directors being present.
Directors The Board The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors and The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and core officers insurance in respect of legal actions against the values including the creation, acquisition or disposal of corporate directors.
The insurance does not provide cover where the entities and material assets: financial reporting: approval of director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
annual budgets: the Groups finance, banking and capital arrangements: Stock Exchange Listing Rule Companies Act Chairman and Chief Executive matters: material contracts and contracts otherwise than in the The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are split normal course of business of the Company and its subsidiaries: and clearly defined.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the matters which could affect the Groups reputation: employee leadership of the Board and creating the conditions for overall issues and key appointments: risk management strategy including Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside and internal controls and Group insurances: health and safety: outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is responsible for defence and settlement of material litigation: and social, running the Groups business.
It also has oversight of the Groups operations.
These responsibilities are set out in a The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
the agenda for Board meetings.
The Group Chairman also ensures that Board members, especially the non-executive In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has directors, receive timely information and are briefed on issues delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, details of arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an effective which are set out later in this report.
From time to time the contribution.
The Company Secretary is responsible for Board also establishes certain other committees with defined disseminating Board papers, which are normally circulated in terms of reference to deal with a specific issue which the Board advance of each meeting, presenting certain papers to the has approved, such as the acquisition or disposal of a business.
Board and its committees, advising on Board procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
Below the Board is the Executive Committee, comprising at 31 December 2006 the executive directors, the senior executives The Board has concluded that Lord Blackwell was independent Mr S Dance, Mr B Melizan, Mr B Spencer and Mr D Sutherland, and upon appointment on the basis of the criteria specified in the Company Secretary.
3.1 of the Combined Code and generally, and continues to be so.
38 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 !-P Directors report age Head !-P Corpor age Head Secondary ate governance continued Board balance and independence Information and professional development The Board, which operates as a single team, comprises three The Board papers include information from management on executive directors four until 20 July, four non-executive financial, business and corporate issues to enable the directors directors and the Group Chairman.
The individual directors have to be properly briefed on issues to be considered at Board different skills, experience and qualifications with certain of meetings.
Matters requiring Board and committee approval are their number presently or previously working in other sectors of generally the subject of a proposal formulated by the executive the economy, and are able to bring independent judgement to directors and circulated, together with supporting information, bear on matters for consideration by the Board.
as part of the Board papers.
The Board considers each non-executive director to be The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph results, cash flows and projections to the Board on a monthly basis.
3.1 of the Combined Code and generally, and free from any Forecasts of prospective financial performance are prepared in May relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or and September of each year.
Monthly and year-to-date financial could appear to affect, their judgement.
Furthermore, the Board performance is compared with budgets approved by the Board considers its non-executive directors to be of sufficient calibre prior to the commencement of each financial year and against and number that their views may be expected to be of sufficient the May and September forecasts of the year end financial weight that no individual or small group can dominate the performance.
The financial summaries are accompanied by a Boards decision-making processes.
written report explaining operating and financial performance, the cause and effect of variance from the agreed budgets and Mr Balfour, as Senior Independent Director, is available to forecasts and other information that may be relevant from time shareholders should they have any concerns which contact to time.
Monthly written reports on the performance of each through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such division are provided as part of the Board papers.
Those members contact may be inappropriate.
of the Executive Committee who are not Board directors attend that part of each Board meeting dedicated to management Appointments to the Board and financial reporting, during which health, safety and Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the environmental matters are discussed, and present their reports Nomination Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, and respond to any matters concerning their division raised by who is chairman of the Committee, the Chief Executive and all the Board.
They also attend the relevant part of the Board the non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary is secretary meeting at which trading updates are considered and the annual to the Committee.
The Committee has its own terms of budget and plans are presented for approval and adoption.
reference which deal clearly with its authority and duties, and which are available on the Companys website at The Board also receives monthly reports, quarterly summaries www.
The role of the Nomination and an annual report from the Group Health, Safety and Committee is to consider and review the structure, size, Environmental Manager covering the Groups health and safety composition and balance of skills, knowledge and experience performance, periodic environmental reports and an annual of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with presentation covering both performance during the past year and regard to any changes.
The Committee is responsible for the targets for the forthcoming year.
The Board also receives supervision of the recruitment process of potential Board quarterly written reports from the Group Insurance Manager and appointees, considering any candidates who are put forward by Group General Counsel covering any matters of significance.
the directors and external consultants and recommending to the Board the appointment of all directors after having interviewed On appointment, the directors take part in an induction short-listed candidates.
It is also responsible for making programme given by the Company Secretary during which they recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment receive information about the Company, the role of the Board of any director retiring by rotation.
and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board and its committees, the powers The terms and conditions of appointment of all the delegated to those committees, the Companys corporate non-executive directors and those of the Group Chairman are governance practices and procedures, including the powers available for inspection at the Companys registered office reserved to the Groups most senior executives, and the latest during normal business hours.
Each letter of appointment financial information.
In addition to this, visits to certain of the specifies the anticipated level of time commitment including, Groups operations are undertaken in order for the new directors where relevant, additional responsibilities derived from to gain an appreciation of, and familiarise themselves with, the involvement with the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination business of the Group.
There is also in place an ongoing Committees.
Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman programme providing opportunities for non-executive directors are required to confirm, on appointment, that they have to visit various of the Groups operations.
sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and to seek the Committee Chairmans agreement, or in the case of the The Company Secretary also keeps the directors informed of Group Chairman, the Senior Independent Directors agreement, appropriate briefings, seminars and training courses and makes before accepting additional commitments that might impact the necessary arrangements for their attendance.
Most upon the time they are able to devote to their role as a non-executive directors attended one or more briefings or non-executive director of the Company.
seminars relevant to their role during the year under review.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 39 Directors report Corporate governance continued Throughout their period in office the directors are updated on responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements and the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory notes and the statement by the auditors about their reporting environments in which it operates.
responsibilities are described on pages 54 and 55, respectively, of this Annual report and financial statements.
Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of their Going-concern basis duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, relation to any one event.
All directors have access to the advice at the time of approving the financial statements and notes, that and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate removal is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable any duly delegated committee thereof.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements and notes.
Performance evaluation During 2006, the performance of the directors was appraised by Internal control the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive and, in the case of The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, the Chief Executive, by the Group Chairman, having consulted including risk management, and sets appropriate policies having with the other directors.
The Group Chairmans performance regard to the objectives of the Group.
was reviewed by Mr Balfour, with feedback being provided as appropriate from the remainder of the Board.
The Board also The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification conducted an evaluation of its own performance, that of its and evaluation for consideration by the Board of risks faced by committees, and reviewed its procedures and the matters the Group and for designing, operating and monitoring a suitable reserved for its decision.
system of internal control embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
The Audit Committee also conducted a review of its terms of reference and effectiveness for the year under review.
The principal features of the system of internal control are: Re-election An established management structure comprising the Board All directors are required by the Companys Articles of with its various committees and an Executive Committee.
Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM The Executive Committee is responsible for the operational following their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
management and delivery against budget and forecast of the Directors must subsequently retire by rotation and may offer Group, implementing resolutions of the Board, formulation themselves for re-election at the AGM at intervals of not more of strategy, annual budgets and other proposals for than three years.
The Board typically expects non-executive consideration by the Board and devising and implementing directors to serve two three-year terms, although a suitable policies and procedures for health and safety, non-executive director may be invited to serve one additional environmental, social and ethical, treasury, human resources three-year term.
Should this be the case the non-executive and information technology.
director concerned would be expected to retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
Biographical details of all the The Board receives comprehensive monthly reports against directors, including those subject to re-election, are set out on the annual budget and periodic forecasts.
Each division pages 4 and 5 of this Annual report and financial statements to prepares monthly trading reports except January with a enable shareholders to take an informed decision on any comparison against budget or forecast, together with re-election.
The Board reviews these for the Group as a whole and determines Remuneration appropriate action.
The level and make-up of remuneration The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of Documented delegated authority limits relating to independent non-executive directors, was chaired by expenditure which is kept under regular review by the Mr Trapnell.
The names of the Committee members are set out Board.
Larger value proposals and business acquisitions and in the table on page 38.
The responsibilities of the Committee, disposals are controlled by the Board.
together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set out in A PFI Committee with authority to execute contractual the Directors remuneration report on pages 45 to 53. documentation for PFI projects where prior approval of the Board has been given to participation in a particular PFI Accountability and audit project, and which reports its actions to the Board.
Financial reporting The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable A Risk Committee, comprising the Chief Executive, Group assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It uses the Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group Chairmans statement, the detailed reviews of the performance Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group Insurance and financial position of the Companys operations included in Manager, the Company Secretary who is its secretary and a the Directors report to assist with this.
The directors representative from each of the Groups operating divisions.
40 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Directors report Corporate governance continued The Risk Committee meets at least four times a year, has An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the written terms of reference and provides copies of its significant risks faced by all companies within the Group has meeting minutes to the Board.
been in place for the period under review and until the date of approval of this Annual report and financial statements.
There A General Purposes Committee, comprising any two is also an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk executive directors one of whom shall be the Chief management further into the operations of the businesses, to Executive or, in his absence, the Group Finance Director, deal with areas of improvement which are identified from time with written terms of reference, which exercises certain to time and to derive the maximum benefit to the business powers of the Board delegated to it and reports upon its through the use of risk management procedures.
The internal audit department has, since the acquisition, An Inside Information Committee, comprising the Group conducted a number of reviews on the controls within MacLellan Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, which have, where appropriate, been brought in line with the with written terms of reference, which is empowered to Groups internal controls.
assess quickly if information is inside information, release inside information to the regulatory information service Internal controls are normally reviewed in September and March in the event that it is not possible to convene a Board by the Board, which accords with the Revised Guidance for meeting at very short notice and is responsible for setting Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Financial up and monitoring the systems and controls with regard to Reporting Council in October 2005. inside information.
On 14 August 2006, the Company announced that a programme Manuals setting out Group policy and financial and operating of internal reviews pursuant to an internal reorganisation had procedures, with which all Group companies must comply.
brought to light information relating to the misstatement of These manuals set out the necessary levels of authorisation accounting balances within the former Industrial Services applicable for different transactions.
The investigatory work confirmed that controls within Industrial Services had been repeatedly evaded over a period of A risk management policy document including the Boards several years.
The impact of correcting these cumulative own risk management matrix as part of the Groups internal misstatements was to reduce net assets by some 25.9 million on controls manual.
a post-tax basis, together with professional costs consequential to the investigation, which amounted to 8.3 million at the year The Group has certain key areas which are subject to end.
The investigation found no evidence of any such central management or control, which include health, safety irregularities in the accounts of the Groups other divisions.
and environmental, legal, insurance, treasury and company secretarial.
These functions report to executive directors The deliberate nature of the control evasions enabled them to and operate within defined limits and levels of authority.
go undetected for a prolonged period despite internal and external audit scrutiny.
In order to safeguard against similar An internal audit function whose responsibility is to provide evasions taking place in the future, wide-ranging changes were an objective appraisal to the Board, through the Audit made to the management team of Industrial Services involving Committee, of the adequacy and effectiveness of the the secondment of senior managers from across the Group to processes established to control the business to assist the provide leadership, to enhance operational and financial control Board in meeting its objectives and discharging its measures and to effect the assimilation of the Industrial Services responsibilities.
business into the established review and reporting systems of the Facilities Services division.
One or more members of the Executive Committee and, in most cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of Finance Director attend each of the monthly divisional internal control, the Groups system of internal control is board meetings.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, During the course of each year members of the Executive but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or Committee or other senior operational and financial loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups management visit all trading companies, including those system of internal control for the period under review.
Apart located overseas, to discuss and monitor performance of from the evasion of internal controls mentioned above, the those businesses.
Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant within The Group has in place a whistle-blowing policy which was contemplation of the Combined Code.
reviewed in December 2006 and re-launched in January 2007 and has instituted a Group response plan to set out a In addition to the above, the work undertaken by KPMG LLP framework for dealing with any allegations of fraud, KPMG as part of the forensic review during August and financial misreporting and any whistle-blowing notification.
September 2006 to validate the Group consolidated balance Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 41 Directors report Corporate governance continued sheet, provided the Board with sufficient evidence of the As part of its review of auditor independence, the Committee efficacy of the internal controls within the majority of the has a policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors Group.
The Board subsequently reviewed, amended and comprising a set of authority limits in relation to various adopted a revised risk matrix in December 2006. categories of work.
After reviewing the actual fees for non-audit work for the Group during 2006, the Committee concluded that Audit Committee and auditors the nature and extent of non-audit fees did not compromise The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review the auditor independence.
Further details of the auditors fees are integrity of the financial reporting and audit process and to included in note 4 to the financial statements on page 68. provide an independent overview of risk management and internal control processes and make recommendations to the The Committee monitored the role and effectiveness of the Board.
In fulfilling this role the Committee oversees relations internal audit function, in the context of the Company and the with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups overall risk management system, and received periodic internal audit function.
reports against an annually agreed work plan, which included an assessment of managements responses to the internal auditors The Audit Committee, composed entirely of independent findings and recommendations.
non-executive directors, was chaired by Mr Keegan.
The names and tenure in office of the Committee members are set out in Having established an internal audit function in 2003, staffed the table on page 38.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee exclusively by Company employees and given the growth of the includes members with recent and relevant financial experience.
Group over the last three years, it was concluded that the The Committee has written terms of reference, dealing clearly internal audit function could be most appropriately enhanced with its authority and duties, which are available on the through the use of external consultants who are able to bring a Companys website at www.
wider range of specialist skill to bear on the programme of work within the annually agreed internal audit work plan.
In August 2006, the Board delegated the conduct and control of Consequently,  LLP have been appointed the forensic investigation by KPMG and Linklaters into the to work as part of a co-sourced internal audit function.
accounting misstatements within the Industrial Services division Forensic Investigation to the Committee which received The Committee has, during the 2006 financial year, reviewed its periodic update reports throughout the course of the Forensic terms of reference as part of its annual review of its own Investigation and at its conclusion made recommendations to effectiveness.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the work The Committee met 11 times during 2006, chaired on one carried out, including any improvement actions required.
occasion by Mr Balfour, to coincide with the key dates in the Copies of the minutes of Committee meetings are also circulated Companys reporting cycle and to deal with the Forensic to the Board.
The external auditors and the Group Internal Audit Manager were present at four and three of the meetings, Relations with shareholders respectively.
The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Dialogue with institutional shareholders Group Finance Director attended the meetings by invitation, as The Company encourages two-way communication with both did Mr Vyse on one occasion.
The Company Secretary is secretary institutional and private investors.
The Chief Executive, to the Committee.
The Committee has taken the opportunity to accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended seek the views of the external and internal auditors in private and 53 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the both the external and internal auditors have the opportunity to year ended 31 December 2006.
In addition, the Chief Executive address the Committee in private at any time should they so wish.
and Group Finance Director attended a further six meetings each, accompanied by another member of staff.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial reports to its shareholders, the Committee The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers to has evaluated whether they provide a true and fair view, produce a note of the feedback from institutional investors reviewed the appropriateness and consistency of application of which is reported upon at the next meeting of the Board.
accounting policies adopted in their preparation and assessed All directors and the members of the Executive Committee the basis of any major judgements and estimates.
The also have, and indeed take, the opportunity to attend Committee also reviewed the audit findings, external audit analyst briefings.
management and representation letters before signing on behalf of the Board.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Interim reports, trading updates and, The Committee evaluated the external auditors performance, increasingly, the Companys website.
reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of engagement, the audit scope and fees and made a Constructive use of AGM recommendation to the Board as regards their re-appointment.
All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the It also reviewed auditor independence and objectivity and the AGM, at which all directors and committee chairmen are effectiveness of the audit process at the end of the audit cycle.
introduced and are available for questions.
