Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and and this report outlines the Companys compliance with the provisions the Chief Executive Of cer and they have been set out in writing and of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by approved by the Board.
On appointment to the Board in May 2002 the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
During 2006, the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
the Company complied with almost all the provisions of the Code.
The responsibilities of five Treves as Chairman include those contained Any areas of non-compliance are described in this report.
The Board in the supporting principle to paragraph A.
2 of the Code, namely is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles role and setting its agenda: ensuring that the directors receive accurate, of governance have been applied.
timely and clear information: ensuring effective communication with The Board shareholders: facilitating the effective contribution to the Board of NonAn effective Board, which provides entrepreneurial leadership and Executive Directors in particular: and ensuring constructive relationships controls the Group, is in place.
The Boards main roles are to create between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief value for shareholders, to lead the Group, to approve the Groups Executive Of cer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational other resources are made available to enable it to meet those performance of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper DP Allvey, D Rade and CJ Knight are clearly independent Non-Executive management of the Group.
All Directors have a wide range of Directors.
Under the provisions of the Code, neither RC Nelson nor experience and skills, bringing independent judgement to bear on R Kong are considered to be independent in their positions as Nonissues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Executive Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director, respectively, There were eight scheduled Board meetings held in 2006.
There because of their previous service as executives in the Group.
However, was, in addition, frequent contact between Directors to discuss the during the year both RC Nelson and R Kong continued to bring valuable Companys affairs and develop its business.
Directors attendance expertise to the Board through their extensive knowledge of the business.
at Board meetings is shown in the table on page 32.
Also, on several The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure occasions, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully without the Executive Directors being present.
discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term Board matrix interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take proper The Group has identi ed a number of key areas that are subject account of the interests of customers and employees.
The Nonto regular reporting to the Board, so that the performance of Executive Directors are all experienced and in uential individuals and management can be reviewed and monitored.
A Board matrix is in through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute place which formally outlines the matters speci cally requiring the signi cantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its consent of the full Board and includes, inter alia, the approval of Group committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, the Annual Report, one individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
the Interim Report and related announcements, substantial capital D Rade and CJ Knight were appointed during the year, following a expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the recommendation of review of the Boards composition, and after consulting with advisers dividends and the approval of treasury and risk management policies.
Despite these appointments, the Board, The Board matrix also identi es areas where executive management excluding the Chairman, does not comprise at least half independent can grant approval subject to certain financial limits.
Where any of the Non-Executive Directors, as fide ned and required by the Code.
activities involve amounts greater than those limits they are referred to However, the Board believes that its current composition, taking into the Board.
The authorities in the Board matrix are reviewed regularly account the overall balance of skills, knowledge, commitment and and any changes are approved by the Board.
The Board matrix is experience, results in an ef cient and effective board operation, communicated to all senior management to ensure that throughout whilst maintaining an appropriate balance between Executive and the Group it is known when Board approval is required.
Board management To enable them to discharge their duties, all Directors have full and During the year the Board consisted of the Chairman five Treves, the timely access to all relevant information.
Papers are circulated well Non-Executive Deputy Chairman RC Nelson, the Chief Executive before the Board and Committee meetings to ensure that Directors Of cer WG Hauser, the Chief Financial Of cer W Spencer, R Kong, have the necessary time to read and review them.
The Non-Executive a Non-Executive Director, and three independent Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management accounts and regular Directors, DP Allvey, who is also the Senior Independent Director, management reports and information which enable them to scrutinise D Rade, appointed 1 January 2006 and CJ Knight, appointed the Groups and managements performance against agreed 30 March 2006.
R Kongs engagement as a Non-Executive Director objectives and prior performance.
commenced on 1 July 2006, changing his status from Executive A formal induction programme has been established for new Director, following his retirement as Chief Executive of the Consumer Directors, tailored to suit the individuals previous experience.
The Senior Independent Director is readily available to Ongoing training is provided to Directors and visits to sites arranged.
shareholders if they have concerns that remain unresolved after Directors are briefed on changes to legislation and best practice.
contacting the Company through the usual channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer or Chief Financial Of cer or where such contact is All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company inappropriate.
The Directors biographies appear on pages 18 and 19.
Secretary who will assist in arranging any additional training and If a Director has any concerns about the Company or a proposed information as required.
The appointment and removal of the action, then such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes as a Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 31 31 Corporate governance All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves the performance of the business and enhances shareholder value.
During its meetings in 2006, the Board received and discussed the Chief Executive Of cers and Chief Financial Of cers reports, market reports, share trading reports, analysts forecasts, potential acquisitions, claims and risk reports, final and interim dividend recommendations, potential contract bids, road show and investor feedback, alternative capital structures, divisional budgets, marketing initiatives, treasury policy, year end and interim reports and announcements, IT strategy and a wide range of other issues.
Board Committees The Board has established three Committees, each with clearly fide ned terms of reference, procedures and powers.
These terms of reference are available on request from the Company Secretary at the registered of ce or can be downloaded from www.
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Audit Scheduled and Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Name Position meetings meetings meetings meetings five Treves Chairman 8 8 4 4 2 2 5 5 RC Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 8 8 n a n a n a WG Hauser Chief Executive Of cer 8 8 n a n a n a W Spencer Chief Financial Of cer 8 8 n a n a n a R Kong Non-Executive Director 8 8 n a n a n a DP Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 4 4 2 2 5 5 D Rade Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 n a n a n a CJ Knight Independent Non-Executive Director 6 6 3 3 1 1 3 3 Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held in the period during which the relevant individual was a Director or Committee member.
Membership of the three relevant Board Committees is set out below.
The Remuneration Committee This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, DP Allvey Chairman, five Treves and CJ Knight.
Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director CJ Knight was appointed as a Committee member on 30 March 2006.
The Code requires the Remuneration Committee to have at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
As Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, five Treves is not viewed as independent by the Code so that, in this regard, there was non-compliance with it.
During 2006 the Remuneration Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective and that five Treves exercised independent judgement on all remuneration matters referred to and discussed by that Committee.
The current Code also recommends that the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
However, following a change to the Code which will be effective for years beginning after 1 November 2006, this recommendation has been dropped, provided that the Chairman is independent on appointment, which was the case for five Treves, and accordingly this will not be an area of non-compliance for the Company next year.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives and for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of additional bene ts for each of the Executive Directors, including pension rights and any compensation for loss of of ce.
The Committee is also responsible for the implementation and operation of employee share incentive arrangements.
During 2006 the Remuneration Committee met five times.
At those meetings the Committee discussed, amongst other things, policy with regard to salary increases on promotion, reviewed the financial status and investment strategy of the Companys UK final salary pension scheme, determined bonus awards for 2005 and bonus targets for 2006, determined salary increases for senior members of the executive team, determined the mechanics of the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan, and approved the annual Remuneration Report.
Details of the Groups remuneration for Executive Directors and details of bene ts, share options, pensions entitlements, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 30.
The Nomination Committee This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, five Treves Chairman, DP Allvey and CJ Knight.
Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director CJ Knight was appointed as a Committee member on 30 March 2006, and from that date forward the Company was in full compliance with the relevant Code provisions, which require a Nomination Committee to have a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
During 2006 this Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective.
This Committee, which met twice during the year, nominates candidates to ll Board vacancies, reviews succession planning and makes recommendations on the balance and composition of the Board.
Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, a job description is prepared for any new Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is appointed, the Committee requires con rmation that he or she can devote suf cient time to ful l the commitments of the role.
The terms and conditions of appointment of NonExecutive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered of ce during normal business hours and at the Annual 32 Intertek Group plc Annual Report General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the risk management and internal control, the companys internal meeting.
All new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at audit function and its plans and performance.
It also reviewed the first annual general meeting after their appointment and then are the Companys arrangements for business continuity planning, subject to re-election by shareholders once every three years.
IT systems and security, fraud and related matters, whistle blowing and hotlines, compliance and e-learning, and substantial claims Following the sudden death of R Sayers in 2005, and the evaluation affecting the Company.
of numerous possible replacements, the Committee recommended and the Board appointed Christopher Knight as a Non-Executive The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Director with effect from 30 March 2006.
Report and the Interim Report remains with the Board.
The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the During 2006 the Audit and Risk Committee met four times.
Chairman and other Committee members also attend meetings held twice a year with the external auditor and management to discuss any The Audit and Risk Committee accounting issues associated with the annual audit and interim review.
This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, DP Allvey Chairman, five Treves and CJ Knight.
CJ Knight was Performance evaluation appointed as a Committee member on 30 March 2006.
As Chairman A performance evaluation process led by the Chairman is applied to of the Company, five Treves is not viewed as independent by the each Director, Committee and the Board as a whole.
This comprises a Code, so that, in this regard, there was non-compliance with it.
series of questionnaires which provide a framework for the evaluation The Code requires an Audit and Risk Committee to have at least three process, and provide the Chairman with a means of making year-onindependent Non-Executive Directors.
During 2006, the Audit and year comparisons.
There are questionnaires for each of the following: Risk Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed that membership the Board: each individual Director: the Remuneration, Nomination of the Committee was appropriate and effective and that five Treves and Audit and Risk Committees.
exercised independent judgement on all issues presented and discussed by that Committee.
DP Allvey has recent and relevant This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its financial experience as detailed in his biography on page 19.
Committees ensures that the performance of each individual Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and each The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups Committee are properly measured.
financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring The Chairman assesses the individual performance of each Director, the effectiveness of the external audit process and making based on questionnaires from the other Directors.
The Senior recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reIndependent Director has discussions with the other Executive and Nonappointment and remuneration of the external auditors, and for Executive Directors, without the Chairman being present, in order to ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and appraise the Chairmans performance during the year.
For the year the external auditors is maintained.
It also reviews annually the under review these assessments concluded that the performance of the Groups systems of internal control, the processes for monitoring and Board and each Director was and is effective and that all Directors evaluating the risks facing the Group and the effectiveness of the demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles to the Company internal audit function.
It is responsible for approving the appointment evidenced, inter alia, by the Board and Committee attendance records and termination of the Head of Internal Audit and meets with him at set out in this report.
The evaluations further demonstrate that the least once a year without management present.
Board has the right set of skills, that all the Directors add value to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group, and that no substantial The Groups auditors, Chief Executive Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer, issues have arisen out of the evaluation process.
Vice President Financial Control, Vice President Compliance and the Head of Internal Audit, usually attend Committee meetings.
The The Remuneration, Nomination, and Audit and Risk Committees each Groups auditors meet with the members of the Audit and Risk also held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during the Committee alone at least once a year.
year, the results of which were reported to the Board by the respective Committee Chairmen.
The reviews concluded that each Committee The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued was operating in an ef cient and effective manner.
independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors.
A policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditor has been The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in order to approved by the Board to ensure that auditor objectivity and ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its performance independence are safeguarded.
To this end, the policy highlights and that of its individual members and Committees.
those areas where the external auditor cannot provide services to the Group, including inter alia, the provision of Group management Internal control functions, internal audit outsourcing, provision of legal advice and Many of Interteks primary business objectives relate to compliance recruitment and remuneration advice.
As a reassurance, the auditors to ensure adherence to local, national and international laws and con rm by way of letter to the Board that processes to ensure requiring our employees to show integrity and honesty in all business compliance with this policy are in place, and that these processes are dealings.
Risk management and internal controls are therefore monitored regularly.
A detailed breakdown of the audit and non-audit embedded in the running of each division, assuring the accuracy fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year is set out in note 4 and validity of reports and certi cates that we provide to customers.
Although the Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing At its meetings during 2006 the Committee reviewed and endorsed, its effectiveness, such a system is designed to manage rather than prior to submission to the Board, the Companys Interim Report eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only and Annual Report and results announcements.
The Committee provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
also monitored and reviewed the standards and effectiveness of The Board can con rm that, in addition to internal audits, there is Intertek Group plc Annual Report 33 Corporate governance an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any The Chief Financial Of cer heads a central compliance team, which signi cant risks to the Groups short and long-term value, including co-ordinates the quality assurance function.
Quality assurance audits those arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
This are carried out by the divisions and the findings reported to divisional process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date management and to compliance of cers.
Each division has at least of approval of the Annual Report, is regularly reviewed by the Board, one dedicated compliance of cer who undertakes investigations of and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
During the year, strong issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or by other internal controls were found with a few exceptions which were the means such as the employee hotline.
Reports of signi cant findings subject of immediate corrective action.
No material breaches of any are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Each geographic internal controls were identi ed during the year.
In carrying out the region has an internal auditor who is independent of the divisions.
risk review the Board is satis ed that it received adequate information The main reporting sites are reviewed annually.
The other sites are from the operations around the world.
Training is provided to reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality and risk.
Directors on these matters where necessary.
Reports of signi cant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and it monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal audit department was awarded system of financial and nonfinancial internal control during the year.
ISO 9001:2000 accreditation in 2003 and was re-accredited in 2006.
In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying and evaluating the signi cant risks affecting The Group will, from time to time, be required by its customers to the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are operate in countries where there is potential political and economic managed.
This is reinforced by the Code of Ethics, which provides risk.
In doing so, the Group maintains a policy of facilitating practical guidance and instruction for staff.
A copy of this Code is international trade inspection and audit services that help to prevent available at www.
corruption and assist with humanitarian aid.
Where there are no laws in place that prohibit business dealings in certain countries, the Group The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in regard to breaches of will consider operating in those countries, but only in strict accordance ethics and employees are required to sign a certi cate con rming their with its stringent Code of Ethics.
understanding that any breaches of the Groups code of ethics will result in disciplinary action that may include dismissal of the employee The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the assurance procedures, concerned.
To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to attain the concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting level of assurance required by the Board.
and other matters, there are independently managed email and telephone hotlines so that staff may report anonymously any The Chief Executive Of cer also reports to the Board on signi cant inaccurate or unethical working practices.
changes in the business and the external environment, which could impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Of cer provides the Board with In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee endeavours monthly financial information, which includes the comparison of key to ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and performance gures against budget and forecasts, risk indicators effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques and compliance with covenants.
Where areas for improvement in so as to be in line with best practice on such matters.
the system are identi ed, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board Each operating division is responsible for the identi cation and approves the treasury policy and that departments activities are also evaluation of signi cant risks applicable to that area of business subject to internal audit.
together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated Relations with shareholders with a variety of internal or external sources including control Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The breakdowns, disruption of information systems, competition, natural Company produces an Annual Report which is sent to shareholders.
Operation of the controls At the half year, an Interim Report is published.
The Group also has a is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or of its consequences.
com which contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results.
Shareholders can A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical reporting subscribe via the Investor Relations section of www.
com to has been established which provides a documented trail of receive email alerts of important announcements made by the Group.
These procedures are applied across Group operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at increasingly Going concern higher levels of management and nally, to the Board.
This process is After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides assurance as to the that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion.
concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
Each division reports annually to the Audit and Risk Committee via Corporate responsibility the Chief Financial Of cer on its review of risks and how they are The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act managed.
Each year senior managers throughout the Group con rm ethically in relation to the physical and social environment in which the adequacy of their systems of internal controls, compliance with it operates and that failure to do so could adversely impact on the Group policies, local laws and regulations and report any control Groups long and short-term value, as a result of financial penalty and weaknesses identi ed in the past year.
One of the Audit and Risk loss of customer support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously, paying Committees main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key due regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
Further risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary details are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility statement on to ensure such risks are properly managed.
34 Intertek Group plc Annual Report
