Corporate governance Combined Code principles and compliance Role and procedures The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the governance.
Throughout the year under review, Invensys has been in operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is full compliance with the provisions of the Code on Corporate particularly important in ensuring that the strategy and business Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 proposals of the executive management team are fully discussed the Code.
The following report, together with the Remuneration and examined to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of report, describes in full how the principles set out in the Code have shareholders and also take account of issues affecting employees, been applied.
customers, suppliers and the many communities within which Invensys conducts its business.
At least one full days meeting every The Board year is devoted to the overall strategic planning of the Group.
Composition, balance and independence The Board currently has eight members, comprising the nonInduction and development executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer An induction programme appropriate to the individuals experience and five non-executive directors.
One of the non-executive directors, is established on the appointment of a new director.
The continuing Michael Parker, joined the Board on 24 May 2006 to replace Larry development of directors, collectively and individually, is mainly effected through the provision to them by relevant external and Farmer, who is stepping down at the Annual General Meeting.
internal advisers of in-depth briefings on matters of current Andrew Macfarlane is also stepping down at the Annual General significance to the Group, sometimes taking place at additional Meeting and a search for his replacement is underway.
Bay Green Board or committee meetings held for that purpose: examples in became the Senior Independent Director on 22 July 2005 in place of the year under review have included in-depth briefings on the new Mr Macfarlane.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Disclosure Rules which came into force in July 2005 and pensions.
Chairman and the Chief Executive, formulated in their terms of appointment and in the delegation of authorities prescribed by the Board and committees: performance evaluation Board, which ensures that there is a balance of power and authority.
The Board has a formal annual review process with discrete Biographies of all the directors are presented on page 34.
As can components covering the evaluation of the Board's collective be seen, they have a wide range of international business and performance and the appraisal of the performance of individual financial experience relevant to the direction of a company with directors, including the Chairman.
All the non-executive directors are considered independent for Code purposes.
As highlighted in last Evaluation of executive directors is conducted by the Chairman and years Corporate governance report, Mr Farmer received additional non-executive directors.
Appraisal of the non-executive directors is fees for non-executive review and advisory services provided to our conducted by the Chairman and executive directors.
The performance Process Systems business during a one-off limited period of time of the Chairman is led by the Senior Independent Director in between 2004 and early 2005.
Mr Farmers independence was consultation with the other directors.
Individual feedback is reviewed before and after the project with the Board determining provided by the Chairman to each of the directors and by the that he remained independent.
This work has now concluded and Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
no such fees were paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2006.
In relation to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, Meetings an internal questionnaire is used for this annual process.
The The Board meets at least eight times during the course of a year evaluation process involves assessment by reference to the relevant with additional meetings convened as necessary: in the financial year roles and responsibilities under review, current terms of reference of under review, the Board met on 16 occasions.
The Boards committees and best practice.
The results of the evaluation provide programme includes meetings of the non-executives without the the basis for continuous improvement in the Board's procedures executives being present.
Individual attendance is set out in the and the Board's action plans and objectives for the following year.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that includes all major strategic and financial Following the most recent set of reviews, the Board remains satisfied decisions, including the quarterly reporting of results and the that each ongoing director remains committed to his role and that formulation of strategic and budget plans: other decision-making the Board and each committee remains effective.
is delegated through structured procedures to committees and, for operational matters, to senior management.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, all directors have full and timely access to all Board committees relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has three standing committees, whose full terms of Independent financial and professional advice is available to the reference are available on the Groups website or on request from directors, collectively and individually, as circumstances require.
Directors attendance at meetings for the year ended 31 March 2006 Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominating Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Martin Jay 16 16 2 2 Ulf Henriksson 16 16 Adrian Hennah 15 16 Larry Farmer 16 16 7 7 12 12 Bay Green 14 16 6 7 2 2 Jean-Claude Guez 16 16 12 12 2 2 Andrew Macfarlane 16 16 7 7 11 12 Richard Haythornthwaite 3 4 From 1 April 2005 to the date of his resignation on 21 July 2005 Invensys plc Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Annual report & accounts 2006 35 35 Corporate governance continued ensure that the independence of the auditors is not impaired.
This The Nominating Committee review covers the nature of the work, the method of appointment Membership and meetings The Nominating Committee comprises and the fees paid.
This work generally falls into two categories as three independent non-executive directors: Martin Jay, who is follows: first, audit and assurance assignments, including work that chairman of the Committee, Jean-Claude Guez and Bay Green.
in their role as auditor they are best placed to undertake such as The Committee met formally on two occasions during the period.
formal reporting and other work related to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, various regulatory reports and work in respect Role The Nominating Committee is responsible for making of acquisitions and disposals: and secondly, taxation in cases where recommendations to the Board for the appointment or rethe auditors are best suited, such as tax provision and statutory appointment and retirement of directors and monitoring the work.
Other significant tax advisory projects are put out to performance of directors and, in support of the Chairman, advising competitive tender.
on evaluation processes and induction and training requirements.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee undertook The Audit Committee also reviews the work undertaken by the Risk further responsibilities including the interviewing of candidates for Committee and by the internal audit function as described in more appointment to the Board and assisting the Chairman with detail in the section of this report dealing with internal control.
addition, it reviews the Groups arrangements under which staff can raise on a confidential basis concerns about potential irregularities Activities during the year The Committee was responsible, with and arrangements for follow-up actions.
external recruitment advisers, for the defining of the Boards requirements for the selection and appointment of the new Chief The Audit Committee undertook its Financial Officer, Steve Hare who is to replace Adrian Hennah Activities during the year routine procedures during the year, as outlined above.
In addition and new non-executive director, Mr Parker who is to replace during the year the Committee conducted a review of the processes, Mr Farmer, both appointments effective after the year end.
controls and accounting within Group Treasury, a review of the The Nominating Committee has also evaluated those directors who Groups whistle-blowing procedures and compliance with the Code are to be proposed for election or re-election at the Annual General of Conduct.
Meeting no individual director participated in any matter relating to himself.
All directors are required to retire by rotation no later The Remuneration Committee than the third annual general meeting following their appointment Details of the Remuneration Committee, its membership and role or re-appointment.
No director is proposed for election for a are described in the Remuneration report on pages 38 to 46. further term of three years unless the Nominating Committee has, following evaluation, recommended re-appointment to the Board.
In recent years, the Board has implemented a progressive refreshing Communication with shareholders of its membership and at the present time none of its members has Communication with shareholders is at all times given a high priority served more than one term of three years.
The recommendations and a number of means are used to promote greater understanding of the Committee on election and re-election of directors are and dialogue with investment audiences.
In order to develop an described in the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The terms understanding of the views of major shareholders, the Board and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and the Groups available on the Groups website or on request from the Company investor relations department.
The Chairman and Senior Secretary.
Independent Director and, where appropriate, other non-executive directors are available for discussion with major shareholders.
The Audit Committee Membership and meetings The Audit Committee comprises During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of three independent non-executive directors: Andrew Macfarlane, who the progress of the Group through trading statements and other is chairman of the Committee, Larry Farmer and Bay Green.
It meets announcements of significant developments that are released at least four times a year and during the period under review met through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
The external auditors normally attend all the is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation meetings and there is a meeting at least once a year between the in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly Committee and the external auditors at which management is not with the Company at any time of the year through a facility on the present.
At the invitation of the Committee, the executive directors website.
Quarterly results announcements are published by release normally attend meetings of the Committee: the other nonto the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
At the half executive directors also regularly attend meetings of the Committee year, the interim report is published by advertisement in the to obtain a fuller briefing on significant accounting and internal Financial Times.
The Summary financial statement provides control issues and this forum is particularly valuable in providing a shareholders with the material information concerning Invensys direct line of communication between the external auditors and the in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual report and non-executive directors.
Shareholders can also request the full report.
All of these documents are available online through the Groups website, Role and authority The Audit Committee is responsible for together with details of all announcements, investor presentations reviewing the published financial information before recommending and share price information, and are also available on request.
publication on behalf of the Board: effectiveness of both the Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting external and internal audit function: and the Groups internal for shareholders to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the controls and risk management procedures.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominating Committees.
The report and accounts are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to The Audit Committee reviews the work undertaken by the external the Annual General Meeting.
Voting on resolutions is conducted by auditors going beyond the scope of the audit itself in order to polls at general meetings and voting results are announced through 36 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 external auditors.
Senior managers are required annually to certify the London Stock Exchange and other news services: the results compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures and proxy levels are available on the website and on request.
and controls, including environmental and health and safety matters, and compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct.
Internal Control In accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control, the following is the Boards report on its annual and continuing Sustainability and social, environmental and ethical reviews of internal control, which include consideration of the matters effectiveness of identification, evaluation and management of all The Board attaches high importance to sustainable development and significant risks affecting Invensys.
To facilitate the Boards reviews, to its corporate social responsibility as described on pages 32 to 33. the Audit Committee receives reports from internal and external The risks inherent in these matters are assessed as part of the auditors and from executive management in relation to the control Groups overall risk management processes described above.
procedures that are in place and the methods by which assurance is Accordingly, the Board, through the Audit and Risk Committees, obtained concerning the levels of adherence to controls.
Following receives regular information and reports to enable it to make detailed review, the Committee then reports on its findings to the appropriate assessments in these areas.
The Board is satisfied that the information that it has incentivisation and training procedures are being continuously received throughout the year and for its annual review together developed so as to reflect more fully the management of those with the procedural review framework that has been established are risks.
Further details of our sustainable development initiatives sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups are available on the Groups website.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control.
Each of the Groups five businesses is individually accountable to the Chief Executive and is managed by a President who, with his senior management team, provides day-to-day control over the businesses operations within the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities determined by the Board.
The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed but it should be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control is, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following the significant restructuring that has affected the Group over recent years, management continues to identify areas where internal controls might be further improved and actions are in place to ensure that identified weaknesses are addressed.
Risk management The Groups risk management strategy is determined by the Board.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board through the Audit Committee and regularly reviews and monitors the risk management strategy.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer chairman of the Committee, the Chief Executive, the General Counsel & Company Secretary, the Financial Controller, the Group Treasurer, the Head of Central Finance, the VP Risk Management and Insurance, the Director of Internal Audit, the SVP Strategic Planning from 17 January 2006, the VP Environment Health & Safety from 17 January 2006 and the Deputy Secretary since 17 January 2006.
During the year, its activities have included reviewing the Groups risk framework and its monitoring functions.
Internal audit The internal audit function has a direct reporting line to the chairman of the Audit Committee and its responsibilities include the examination and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
During the year, it reports regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of internal control issues arising in the course of its internal audit reviews of the Groups operations.
Each year it provides a consolidated review to assist the Board to undertake its own annual review of internal control.
Key internal controls are detailed in formal procedures, instructions and manuals.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the internal audit programme to the extent necessary to form their opinion on the truth and fairness of the annual accounts, by the Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 37
