Strong client relationships Innovative solutions to some of the worlds most complex AMEC is a leading provider of services environment and our ability to provide engineering challenges to Canadas diamond industry.
We work a range of services, from permitting with fide Beers as their alliance partner through to construction management, and preferred supplier for engineering, means that we play an essential role consulting, project and construction in progressing the project through to management services in Canada.
AMEC provides the full range of Our environmental specialists provided environmental services for both Snap geotechnical and environmental Lake, fide Beers first diamond mine assessment and permitting assistance in Canada and Victor, fide Beers first during the initial stages of the project diamond mine in Ontario.
and are now delivering engineering, procurement and construction The Victor project is in a sub-arctic management of the site infrastructure location, where access is only possible as well as working with fide Beers to via land for less than two months a year.
AMECs knowledge of the arctic AMEC was awarded a 250 million Just over a year into the project, AMEC is a market leader in the severe winter conditions where contract with Bruce Power Ontarios it remains on schedule.
AMEC has upstream bitumen production oil sands knowledge of cold weather engineering largest independent nuclear generator worked with Bruce Power since 2001, projects in Northern Alberta, Canada, is mandatory.
over 15 months ago, for the restart providing complex engineering having worked on almost every major On the Aurora mine Train 1 for example, of two nuclear reactors.
solutions and safety consultancy development for over 15 years.
Syncrude introduced a new low-energy services throughout the life-cycle of The plant had been closed for several AMECs relationship with Syncrude process for the extraction of bitumen for nuclear facilities in Canada, the UK years, with very limited maintenance, the worlds largest producer of crude the first time, together with the first use and Eastern Europe.
making it an extremely technically from oil sands - has spanned over ten of new pipeline technology.
The work includes AMECs experience in the nuclear years, providing project management worked closely with Syncrude in the a series of refurbishments, upgrades sector, its expertise in large scale services, together with design, implementation and enhancements of and enhancements to the two reactors, project, contract and construction engineering, procurement, construction these new technologies over the years.
improving safety and increasing management were major factors management, commissioning and generation capacity.
The projects are located in 8 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Strong client relationships www.
com Strong client relationships AMEC plc annual report 2006 9 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 8 4 4 07 09:15:52 AMECs Earth and Environmental AMEC was chosen to conduct a wide AMEC provides long-term asset complete service solution to Shell.
The business has worked in the extreme range of environmental services, support to international and national oil company is responsible for the design climate of North America for more than including a full environmental impact companies, using our experience in and management of capital projects 30 years, producing environmental assessment, and supporting our client offshore services to upgrade their and for continuous operational support, impact assessments for major throughout the regulatory review and facilities and enhance their including modifications, maintenance exploration projects.
and supply of skilled personnel.
of the largest environmental impact One long-term client is Imperial Oil AMEC was awarded a seven year Our experience in managing offshore assessments ever undertaken Resources, for which AMEC has ground-breaking performance based asset support operations in the North worldwide.
provided assessment, monitoring and contract by Shell ONEgas to provide Sea has enabled us to improve the remediation services for both Upstream Our experience in handling, large-scale, extensive support services to over 50 reliability of existing facilities and and Downstream projects.
AMEC is complex projects is a major factor for our offshore gas production platforms and contribute towards extending their currently working with Imperial on the clients in their choice to work with us.
two gas plants in the North Sea.
productive life as well as helping to Mackenzie Valley Gas Project in raise overall production levels.
AMEC created a new joint venture with Northern Canada.
a UK and Dutch company to deliver a AMEC is the only UK company to offer Derby, Leicester, Nottingham and With over 90 years experience, AMEC machine to increase production in a complete range of services across Sheffield.
is a global market leader in pulp and a growing market: using new and all sectors of the gas and electricity paper projects, having designed and refurbished equipment, a solution We are providing a complete service transmission and gas distribution constructed some of the worlds largest which maximised Kimberly-Clarks from refining the design, delivering the networks.
and most technologically advanced return on capital.
replacement of the pipelines to testing, integrated mills.
For many years, AMEC has worked commissioning and handing over the with National Grid on both the gas and pipelines over an eight year period.
AMEC has a twenty year relationship electricity transmission networks, and with Kimberly-Clark one of the worlds More recently, in October 2006, an also on gas distribution.
In 2005, AMEC top producers of personal paper AMEC joint venture won a 500 million was awarded a 280 million contract products providing engineering, contract to upgrade the overhead power to provide a rolling programme of procurement and construction services.
lines and underground cables across upgrading the gas infrastructure along For example, AMEC provided western England and Wales.
the M1 corridor, covering the cities of engineering design of a specialist For more information on our projects and clients see our website www.
