Investor relations report Overview On the days the preliminary and interim results were announced, AMECs chief executive and finance director made presentations to AMEC investor relations is committed to improving the understanding analysts, institutional investors and banks in London, with their slides of AMEC and its business activities in the financial community, being published at the time of delivery on AMECs website.
Interviews enabling financial markets to place an appropriate valuation on were also given to journalists from leading newswires and the national the company.
This report provides an overview of AMECs investor relations strategy, Following both the preliminary and interim results announcements, the investor relations programme in 2006 and other information of major shareholders were offered one-on-one meetings with interest to shareholders.
management, with other institutional shareholders being offered AMECs investor relations strategy reflects the companys guiding the opportunity to attend group meetings hosted by the companys principles available at www.
com and its responsibilities to brokers.
shareholders, which are: During the course of 2006, AMEC met with a total of 97 institutions n to seek to achieve the best returns on investment that markets will 2005: 85, predominantly from the UK and US.
allow and provide accurate and timely information on the companys Analysts and investors value opportunities to meet operational performance: and management and to undertake site visits.
In May 2006, analysts n to manage the affairs of the company through responsible and and institutional investors visited Azerbaijan, where they received effective corporate governance, identifying and managing the risks presentations on the Natural Resources business and visited AMECs inherent in our activities on an ongoing basis.
The event was announced in advance to the London Stock Exchange, with all slides being published on www.
The strategy is focused on three key areas which are: Non-attributable feedback from the event was extremely positive.
n Compliance with all regulations relating to the conduct of AMEC recognises the importance of the internet in financial companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This includes communications and closely follows developments in best practice ensuring that all market sensitive information is issued first through in investor communications on the internet.
Starting with the 2006 the London Stock Exchange and as soon as possible thereafter is preliminary results, AMECs results presentations are now webcast made available to the financial community through various channels and are available on-demand at the companys website.
including AMECs corporate website at www.
com: n Understanding the shareholder base and market sentiment towards AMEC.
This is achieved through close working relationships with advisers, regular share register analysis and non-attributable feedback from analysts and investors: and n Delivery of a comprehensive programme of investor relations activity involving effective communication and consultation with current and potential investors and analysts.
AMEC investor relations controls and coordinates the companys programme of investor relations activity in line with this strategy.
In support of its objectives, AMEC has put in place a management and policy framework for investor relations which includes mandatory policies on contact with the financial community, stock exchange announcements and published information.
These documents are available to employees on the companys intranet.
Review of 2006 Key events in AMECs investor relations programme are the companys preliminary and interim results announcements, annual general meeting and related trading updates.
In the year ended 14 March 2007, these events took place on the following dates: Annual general meeting trading update 17 May 2006 Trading update 16 June 2006 Interim results announcement 31 August 2006 Strategy and trading update 13 December 2006 Preliminary results announcement 14 March 2007 Investor relations report AMEC plc annual report 2006 113 4155 AMEC back 06. indd 113 4 4 07 15:28:47
