Audit Committee Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of... 57 paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees prepared by Sir Robert Smith.
The report describes the activities of the Audit Committee in meeting these requirements.
Terms of reference The Audit Committee's terms of reference are reviewed from time to time and approved by the Board of iSOFT.
They are based on the model terms of reference set out in the Guidance Note produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and the guidance notes set out in Sir Robert Smith's report published in January 2003.
The terms of reference cover membership and appointments, meetings, frequency, quorum, attendees and minutes, duties and responsibilities covering external audit, internal audit, financial 06 reporting, internal controls and risk management LORENZO enables Scott systems, whistle blowing, reporting responsibilities, to play an active role in managing his condition.
authority delegated by the Board and a number of At home, using his digital other matters.
TV and its remote control, he updates his own medical Audit Committee membership and experience record with details of his The Audit Committee comprises three independent blood sugar level and blood non-executive directors.
The members of the pressure.
From the TV Committee are Ken Lever, who was appointed to screen, he can also check the Committee as Chairman on 25 July 2005, David when he needs to take his medication.
Thorpe, who was appointed on 11 May 2004 and Continued on page 60.
Eurfyl ap Gwilym, who was appointed in preparation for the full listing on the London Stock Exchange and served as Chairman until 25 July 2005.
Colin Wall was also a member of the committee until the appointment of Ken Lever.
The Board has determined that all members of the committee are independent non-executive directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The members have wide-ranging commercial, financial and management experience that they bring to the work of the Audit Committee.
Their biographical details are set out on page 26.
Meetings 5. external audit and appointment of external The Audit Committee meets at least four times a auditors, including audit plan, and scope, review year and on other occasions as circumstances of audit fees, cost effectiveness, reports on require.
The quorum for the meeting is two interim and annual financial statements, audit members.
The Finance Director, representatives of status reports, management letters and the the external auditor and the internal auditor, Ernst nature and extent of non-audit services & Young LLP, attend the meetings under a standing performed by the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Board, Chief The audit plan and scope sets out details of the Executive Officer and other directors are able to areas to be covered and how the audit is to be attend the meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee finance and business risk executives attend the 58 meets periodically with the external auditor to meetings and the Company Secretary is Secretary to discuss progress on the audit and the major points the Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman arising, and has the opportunity to assess the reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Four effectiveness of the process.
The Audit Committee is meetings were held during the year and attendance is also able to assess the effectiveness of the process set out on page 33. through reports made to the Committee by the Work of the Committee external auditor.
The Audit Committee has established an agenda In addition to the items considered by the Audit framework which iSOFT believes is vital for Committee under the agenda framework, during maintaining an appropriate focus on the objectives the financial year other important issues considered of the Committee.
The agenda framework sets out included regular reviews of the internal control all of the operational duties and responsibilities systems and the statement to be made in the outlined in the Committee's terms of reference and Directors' Report and Accounts in respect of internal is based on four regular meetings in September, controls, Group business risk profile, updates on March, June and November.
The areas covered by compliance with the Combined Code, and the agenda framework are as follows: developments in accounting systems.
Corporate Governance, including the regular meetings with representatives of the independent review of the terms of reference and annual audit and internal audit functions, in the absence of evaluation, regulatory issues, review of delegated executives, took place during the year.
authorities and review of auditor independence: The Audit Committee met earlier in the year to 2. Business Risk Assurance and internal audit, consider the adoption of International Financial including the review of the business risk Reporting Standards and following detailed assessment completed by executive management, consideration by the Committee, consultation with the review of the internal audit plan and review the external auditor and approval by the Board, the of internal audit reports: Company announced interim results prepared under IFRS on 8 December 2005.
The Company has 3. confidential sessions with the external auditor and published comparative information for 2005 internal auditor in the absence of executive originally presented in accordance with UK GAAP management: but restated in accordance with IFRS.
4. financial reporting, including current accounting and financial reporting matters and review of interim and annual reports and related results' announcements: and Audit Committee Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts Non-audit services are ordinarily put out to tender Internal audit function and require the approval of the Chairman of the In the prior year, the Group introduced an internal Audit Committee above certain levels.
In those cases financial audit function, outsourced to Ernst & where the work was awarded to the external Young LLP, to further enhance the existing internal auditor it was concluded that the firm of the control framework.
Work performed to date has independent auditor was best placed to supply such included the documentation of a risk assessment services due to the experience and qualifications of and financial controls review for all Group entities, the individuals providing such services and that the together with verification of this documentation best interests of the Company were served by within two territories.
It is anticipated that all engaging the firm of the independent auditor.
The territories will be subject to verification over the next policies adopted by the Audit Committee, including twelve months.
The internal auditors report formally 59 those relating to audit partner rotation and relevant to the Audit Committee.
ethical guidance issued by the professional bodies in Approval the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies, The report was approved by the Board on in particular that the external auditor should not 25 August 2006 and signed on its behalf by: audit its own firm's work, make management decisions for the Company, create a mutuality of interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the Company, when taken together, provide adequate protection of auditor independence.
All fees proposed by the external auditor must be reported to the Audit Committee and prior approval is required from the Chairman of the Audit Ken Lever Committee for any projects with fees in excess of Chairman of the Audit Committee 5,000.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have provided advice regarding the Company's operations in India during the year and it is planned that Deloitte & Touche LLP will provide banking advice and tax compliance services to the Company.
Deloitte & Touche LLP with Eversheds LLP also undertook on behalf of the Company an investigation into the accounting irregularities as described on page 71.
The committee has reviewed the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors which, in aggregate, totalled 125,000 and has deemed that in the year ended 30 April 2006 they do not affect independence.
As noted on page 62, and as detailed in note 1 on page 71, due to a number of limitations, the independent auditors have been unable to give an opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in respect of the accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006.
60 07 Two weeks after leaving hospital, Scott automatically receives a text message on his mobile phone, informing him that he requires a repeat prescription.
Using LORENZO, his GP sends the prescription electronically to Scott's local pharmacy.
All in all, a successful outcome for Scott, achieved with the full backing of the latest technology.
