Corporate Governance Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Board of directors is committed to maintaining the required standards of corporate governance.
31 The Board of iSOFT Group plc is committed to maintaining the required standards of corporate governance.
The following statement explains how the Company has applied the principles of good governance and best practice in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Statement of Compliance with the Code of Best Practice Throughout the year ended 30 April 2006, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the exception of the following matters listed below: 1.
The Combined Code provision A3.3 requires the Board to appoint one of the independent non-executive Directors to be the senior 03 independent Director.
Sir Digby Jones undertook At the hospital, Scott is this role from the start of the year to examined by the on-call medical 25 July 2005 and Colin Wall undertook this role team and is immediately placed on a care pathway for from 25 July 2005 to 3 April 2006 when he ketoacidosis.
He is prescribed resigned from the Board.
Subsequently, the Board intravenous fluids and insulin, took the opportunity to consider its structure and and a regime of hourly blood balance and appointed Ken Lever to this role on sugar tests is started.
As a result, there was no Details of the hospital's diagnosis compliance with this provision between and the treatment pathway are 3 April 2006 and 24 August 2006. entered into Scott's care record, again using LORENZO on a 2.
The Combined Code provision B2.1 requires the tablet PC.
A colour retinal photograph is also booked.
remuneration committee to comprise of at least three members who should all be considered to Continued on page 40. be independent.
Following the resignation of Colin Wall on 3 April 2006, the remuneration committee comprised only two independent directors and therefore the Company was not in compliance with this Code provision.
The Board intends to take the opportunity to consider its structure and balance and to appoint a further In accordance with A 3.1 of the Combined Code appropriate member to meet the requirements of Eurfyl ap Gwilym, Ken Lever, David Thorpe and the Combined Code.
Colin Wall was the Geoff White are considered to be independent Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from directors.
Rene Kern is not considered to be an 1 April 2005 to 3 April 2006.
Subsequently, the independent Director, on account of being a Board took the opportunity to consider his Director of General Atlantic LLC which owned replacement and appointed Eurfyl ap Gwilym on 4.95% of iSOFT Group plc at 30 April 2006.
Post year end, following the resignation of the John Weston was appointed Non-executive Chief Executive Officer, Tim Whiston, on Chairman on 19 October 2005.
The Board considers 32 14 June 2006, the Chairman has also assumed that on his appointment the Chairman met the the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer.
independence criteria set out in paragraph A.
3.1 of As a result, the Company does not currently the Combined Code.
As reported above, following comply with provision A2.2 of the Combined the resignation of the Chief Executive Officer on Code that requires a clear division of 14 June 2006, the Chairman has also assumed the responsibilities at the head of a company responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer until a between the running of the Board and executive suitable replacement has been appointed.
responsibility for the running of a Company's Board responsibilities business.
However, the Board recognises that the The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters Chairman has assumed these responsibilities as a reserved for its attention, which include the temporary measure and believes that the determination of strategy and the approval of Chairman is best placed to lead the Company annual budgets, significant investments and risk through this transitional period.
This schedule is available for currently seeking to appoint additional executive inspection at the Company's registered office.
and non-executive directors to increase the diversity, skills and experience brought to the The Board's role includes: Board and to complement existing expertise.
representing the interests of shareholders and Board balance and independence satisfying all statutory duties due to them: Up until 3 April 2006 when Colin Wall resigned, the deciding the strategic direction of the Company Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, a Chief and providing the resources required to fulfil its Executive Officer, three further executive directors future needs: and six experienced non-executive directors, five of whom were considered to be independent during providing a challenging, confidential forum in the year on the basis of the criteria specified in which the Chief Executive Officer can test paragraph A.
From strategic thinking with an informed Group having 3 April 2006 until 14 June 2006, the Board comprised broad continuity over time: a non-executive Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, requiring the Chief Executive Officer to report three further executive directors and five regularly and openly on the operational experienced non-executive directors, four of whom performance of all parts of the Group: were considered to be independent during the year on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph monitoring the effectiveness of the Chief A3.1 of the Combined Code.
Biographical details of Executive Officer and his executive team against a each director are set out on pages 26 to 27. series of performance objectives and benchmarks: setting a control framework within which the Chief Executive Officer can operate and authorising decisions on major issues and investments: constituting subcommittees of the Board to address the issues of remuneration, new appointments and audit: Corporate Governance Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts determining the remuneration of executive The Board believes that regular involvement with directors and senior members of staff and management through the Chief Executive Officer ensuring that they are appropriately incentivised: and the executive directors is the most effective way to monitor performance and achieve proper control assisting value creation through entrepreneurial of the Group.
Through openness, the provision of leadership and by the controlled and measured well-defined information and discussion, the Board management of a wide range of business risks: endeavours to provide leadership in the interests of shareholders.
ensuring appropriate behaviour with respect to the various codes of corporate governance and Board meetings good business practice, including providing an The Board normally meets at least nine times per audit trail of accountability: and 33 year for scheduled Board meetings.
The Board also meets as required on an ad hoc basis to deal with overseeing good corporate citizenship and ethical behaviour by the Group and its employees with urgent business.
The table below lists the number of regard to all its internal and external stakeholders.
Board meetings and Board committee meetings, and Directors' attendance throughout the year: The directors are encouraged to bring independent judgement to bear on both strategic and operational matters.
Any director may challenge company policy and decisions are taken democratically after discussion.
Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings held 12 1 6 4 1 John Weston 8 -21 2 Tim Whiston 12 - 2 3 Steve Graham 11 - 1 - 3 Gavin James 11 -14 Ravi Kumar 12 - - - 4 Sir Digby Jones - --- Eurfyl ap Gwilym 10 -54 Rene Kern 11 - - 1 5 Ken Lever 10 -33 David Thorpe 8 1 1 3 Geoff White 11 - - 2 6 Patrick Cryne 4 --- 7 Colin Wall 10 161 1 John Weston was appointed as Non-executive Chairman on 5 Ken Lever was appointed as a non-executive director on 19 October 2005 21 June 2005 2 Tim Whiston resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 14 June 2006 6 Patrick Cryne resigned as Chairman and director on 3 Gavin James was appointed as an executive director on 19 October 2005 21 June 2005 7 Colin Wall resigned as a non-executive director on 3 April 2006 4 Sir Digby Jones resigned as a non-executive director on 25 July 2005 During the year ended 30 April 2006, the Chairman Directors have access to the advice and services of regularly held meetings with the non-executive the Company Secretary, and may seek independent directors, without executive directors present.
The advice, at the Group's expense, if necessary for the Board also appointed ad hoc sub committees as proper performance of their duties.
The availability appropriate during the year to consider specific of this advice is set out for non-executive directors in transactions and other Board related matters.
Appointments to the Board Induction and training for new directors is arranged Under the Company's Articles of Association, all by the Company Secretary.
Existing Board members directors are subject to reappointment by have many years of relevant experience and each is shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM responsible for ensuring their continuing professional 34 following their appointment, and one third of the development and monitoring up-to-date and directors must retire annually by rotation and seek effective skills and knowledge.
Performance evaluation Each member of the Board brings different The Board monitors performance against the experience and skills to the operation of the Board achievement of the Group's strategic objectives.
Board composition is Each executive director has defined responsibilities kept under review and when a new appointment is for performance and measurement of achievement.
to be made, consideration is given to the particular These include a mix of financial and non-financial, skills, knowledge and experience that a potential predictive and historic indicators.
new member could add to the existing Board The Board has conducted an evaluation of its own composition.
Comprehensive, formal and tailored performance and that of the Board Committees and induction is provided to new Board members.
The individual directors and continues to monitor and Group has long recognised the vital role that consider the effectiveness and performance of each.
non-executive directors have in ensuring high This process is being assisted by the Group Human governance standards and maintains a significant, Resources Director and included a written high calibre, non-executive representation on the Board.
questionnaire focusing on collective performance Details of the length of executive directors service and individual contribution.
The terms of Following his appointment as Chairman, John appointment of non-executive directors are set out Weston discussed individually with each of the on page 55.
Any reappointment of a non-executive directors the skill sets they believed to be required director beyond two three-year terms is subject to around the Board table.
Any non-executive director who has served for more than nine years is subject to annual Board committees reappointment by shareholders at the AGM.
The Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees of the Board deal with specific aspects of the Information and professional development Group's affairs in accordance with their written In advance of each scheduled Board meeting, all terms of reference, which are available for inspection directors are supplied with information and briefing at the Company's Registered Office.
Each is comprised material in relation to the business to be considered of independent non-executive directors only.
Senior Executives and advisers are invited to attend Board meetings as required by The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer directors are able to attend the meetings of the also brief directors on key issues and Board committees under the policy that any director communications with institutional investors.
may attend any meeting of a Board committee providing they have no conflict of interest in respect of the business to be discussed.
Corporate Governance Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Board believes that regular involvement with management through the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors is the most effective way to monitor performance and achieve proper control of the Group.
The Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee 35 The Board has established a nomination committee Members of the committee during the year included which meets formally as necessary and at least twice Colin Wall, Eurfyl ap Gwilym, Sir Digby Jones and per year.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee Ken Lever.
From 3 April 2006 to 24 August 2006 throughout the year was Geoff White.
The principal there was no Chairman of the Remuneration function of the Nomination Committee is to review Committee, however on 24 August 2006 Eurfyl ap and make recommendations to the Board about Gwilym was appointed as Chairman of the Board appointments.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee.
Details of the role and committee are as follows: work of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 45. to propose to the Board the responsibilities of non-executive directors including membership The Audit Committee and chairmanship of Board committees: From 1 April 2005 to 25 July, the Chairman of the Audit Committee was Eurfyl ap Gwilym.
Since to ensure that there is a satisfactory, formal 25 July 2005, Ken Lever has been the Chairman of process for the selection of non-executive directors: the Audit Committee.
David Thorpe and Eurfyl ap to propose to the Board any new Board Gwilym are also members of the Committee.
Other appointments: directors and the internal and external auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee as to ensure there is good succession planning at appropriate.
Details of the role and work of the Board level: Audit Committee are set out in the report of the Audit Committee on page 57. to review the effectiveness of directors: and Note: Sir Digby Jones resigned as a member of the to nominate suitable people for the most senior Audit Committee on 11 May 2004 and not on executive positions, including that of Chief 6 January 2005 as stated in the 2005 Annual Report.
Accountability and audit The Nomination Committee is chaired by Geoff White, Non-executive Deputy Chairman.
Members Financial reporting of the committee during the year included Colin Through the Financial Review, the Board seeks to Wall and David Thorpe.
The Nomination Committee provide a balanced assessment of the business of reviewed and made proposals for the nomination of the Group.
In conjunction with the Report of the John Weston as Chairman, Gavin James as Finance Chairman and Chief Executive, the Directors' Report Director and Ken Lever as a non-executive director.
and the financial statements, the Board seeks to provide a balanced assessment of the Group's performance, position and prospects.
Internal control regular provision of information to executive Notwithstanding the investigation into possible management and the Board covering financial accounting irregularities, the Board has applied performance and key performance indicators, principle C. 2 of the Combined Code which requires including non-financial measures.
it to establish a continuous process for identifying, As the year has progressed, and as a result of the evaluating and managing the significant risks the investigation into possible accounting irregularities in Group faces which accords with the guidance on the financial years ended 30 April 2004 and 2005 as internal control published in September 1999 the described in note 1, it has been recognised that Turnbull Guidance.
The Board regularly reviews this there are areas where the systems of internal control process which has been in place throughout the need to be strengthened to improve the overall financial year and up until the date of the approval 36 effectiveness of the management of the Group.
Further information on this review Specifically these areas include: process is noted below.
1. forecasting of profits and cash flows in the The Board retains full responsibility for the Group's business units of the Group: system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Whilst acknowledging their overall 2. strengthening controls around revenue responsibility for the system of internal control, the recognition, the selection of accounting policies directors are aware that the system is designed to and the establishment of systems to support the manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to new basis of revenue recognition: achieve business objectives and can provide 3. clear identification of product profitability: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Historically, key 4. review and approval by the Board of contractual elements of the Group's internal controls are: arrangements with existing and new customers: a business risk assessment framework identifying 5. monitoring the progress of new product the potential likelihood of strategic, operational, development in accordance with agreed commercial and financial risks, their respective milestones: and potential financial impact and the plans and 6. the process for reviewing the Board's own associated management action to mitigate effectiveness.
those risks: It was also noted during the internal audit reviews rolling three-year strategic plans: of financial controls in certain business units that detailed budgeting process: there are opportunities to strengthen specific financial controls.
quarterly re-forecasting of profits and cash flows: The directors have commenced the development of regular monitoring of results and forecasts against appropriate action plans in each of the areas to budget, with investigation and action taken in address the identified shortcomings.
Further action response to variances.
will be taken by the Board, as appropriate, upon the established procedures for the approval of capital conclusion of the current investigations.
expenditure, investment and acquisition projects: Not withstanding the investigation into possible clearly defined management structure and accounting irregularities, the Directors confirm that delegated authorities for individual business units there has been a process in place from the start of and managers within the business units: the year to the date of the approval of this report for identifying, evaluating and managing significant clearly documented internal procedures set out in risks faced by the Company, which is in accordance the Group's ISO 9001:2000 accredited quality with guidance on internal control published in management system and regular internal quality September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
audits of key processes and procedures: and Corporate Governance Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Board retains full responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Going concern Finance Director regularly attend investor meetings 37 The Group's directors have prepared projected cash and briefings.
The Chairman attends as required flow information for the period ending 12 months and, in particular, at the interim and full year results from the date of approval of these accounts.
Whilst the Chairman and Chief projections include certain key assumptions made by Executive Officer roles are temporarily combined as directors, described in note 1. noted above, the Chairman Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will attend briefings.
The nature of the Group's business is such that there can be considerable unpredictable variation The Group has established an investor relations and uncertainty regarding the timing and or facility on its website www.
isoftplc investor where occurrence of the matters referred to in note 1, the up-to-date financial and other information can be timing and margin of sales, the quantum and timing found, including copies of the Company's of cash flows from new business activity and the presentations to analysts.
In addition, the directors achievement of contractual milestones.
appointed a Corporate Communications Director for the first time in April 2006.
In preparing these projections the directors recognise that there are material uncertainties that Constructive use of the AGM may cast significant doubts on the Group's ability to The Board welcomes the opportunity offered by the continue as a going concern.
AGM to communicate with investors, and encourages their attendance.
Shareholders are Having taken into account the uncertainties referred invited to use this opportunity to raise questions and to in note 1 and above, the directors consider that express their views.
Those unable to attend are the cash flow projections are compiled on a reasonable invited to submit their questions in writing.
basis and it is on that basis that the directors consider it appropriate to prepare the Group's accounts on The Chairman introduces the AGM with a formal the going concern basis.
The accounts do not presentation of the Group's business performance include any adjustments which may be necessary if over the past year and future prospects going forward.
the Group was unable to continue to operate.
The numbers of proxy votes cast in favour of, and Shareholder communication against, resolutions are reported to the meeting and The Board is committed to maintaining regular, open will this year be published subsequently on the dialogue with all of its shareholders.
The Board Company's website at www.
values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests in the Group's strategy and performance.
Regular face-to-face meetings are held with institutional fund managers and equity analysts to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and consistent view of the Group's performance.
In normal circumstances when the Group has a separate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and Group Statement of directors' responsibilities for the In the case of IFRS accounts, International financial statements Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial The directors are responsible for preparing the statements present fairly for each financial year the annual report and the financial statements.
The Company's financial position, financial performance directors are required to prepare accounts for the and cash flows.
This requires a faithful Group in accordance with International Financial representation of the effects of transactions, other Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to events and conditions in accordance with the prepare company financial statements in accordance definitions and recognition criteria for assets, with United Kingdom Generally Accepted liabilities, income and expenses set out in the Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework for the preparation and Presentation of 38 In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are Financial Statements'.
In virtually all circumstances, required to prepare financial statements for each a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance financial year that give a true and fair view of the with all applicable International Financial Reporting state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or Standards.
Directors are also required to: loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are properly select and apply accounting policies: required to: present information, including accounting select suitable accounting policies and then apply policies, in a manner that provides relevant, them consistently: reliable, comparable and understandable information: and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International state whether applicable accounting standards Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to have been followed, subject to any material enable users to understand the impact of departures disclosed and explained in the particular transactions, other events and financial statements.
conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors' report and directors' remuneration report that comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have concluded that the nature of the business has changed.
The implementation of the Group's historical revenue recognition policy presumed that the supply of product licences can be separated from implementation and support.
The complex construction of the commercial contracts of the business, the level of resources applied to implementation and support on an ongoing basis, and the absence of a reliable third party market in implementation and support of the Company's product have made it increasingly difficult to Corporate Governance Report 2006 Annual Report and Accounts distinguish between the supply of product licences and implementation and support.
As a result the directors concluded that the Company's accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition should be changed.
Details of this change are set out in the Report of the Chairman and Chief Executive on pages 2 to 7 and in note 1 to the accounts.
Based on the matters described in note 2 to the accounts, Basis of accounting, on page 74 and subject to the matters referred to in note 1, the 39 Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Annual Report is available on the Group's website at www.
The reader's attention is drawn to note 1 of the financial statements 'Significant matters relating to the basis of preparation of the financial statements'.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 25 August 2006 and signed on its behalf by: John Weston Chairman and acting Chief Executive Officer 40
