24 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Resources and relationships Recruiting and retaining the very best people is key to our success as a business.
ITV enjoys unique assets and capabilities which strengthen our Incentives competitiveness, and help us deliver our strategy.
These strengths It is vital for the Group to offer the right reward and have allowed us to address the challenges of the last year and incentivisation in order to attract and retain the best talent.
will, over the next few years, provide the basis on which the ITV offers all employees a consistent, competitive and attractive Company will continue to develop.
The Groups incentive programmes are structured to give employees a stake in the future success of the People Group.
As well as a SAYE scheme which is open to all employees Key to our success is the recruitment and retention of the and enables them to save for shares in the Company, the Group programme making, commercial, management, technical and runs the Prime Mover scheme which ensures that those with administrative talent that drive the content of our programming, the brightest and best ideas are encouraged.
This Scheme allows and the innovation of our market offering.
The contribution the originators of programme formats that have the potential made by a highly-motivated workforce aligned to the values and for international and UK exploitation to have a substantial stake aspirations of the business makes the development of human in the success of those formats.
The Group also operates an capital one of our highest priorities.
ITVs employee branding all-employee annual bonus scheme which will allow employees was relaunched in 2006 alongside ITVs channel brand relaunch.
to receive a bonus when the Group is successful.
Training and skills Diversity We have a number of programmes in place to ensure we attract The Groups Diversity Policy aims to ensure equality of the best people, retain our high performers and develop talent.
opportunity in both recruitment and retention to support the Televisions reliance on ever-changing technology also requires best content creation and the most innovative approach to that we keep our employees well-trained.
A new team assembled business development.
The Group consistently reports on-screen in 2005 has had an impact on the development of our training portrayal performance for both news and network productions.
and development strategy across the business.
The Company The Company chaired the Cultural Diversity Network in 2006 is represented at board level on Skillset, which is the industry and is an active participant in the major diversity forums Sector Skills Council and contributes both to its core funding whose focus is the employment and development of minority and the freelance training fund it manages.
This means that groups Opportunity Now, the Employers Forum on Disability we are fully represented to ensure we are part of both the and the Broadcasters Disability Network.
design and implementation of the training strategy for the wider broadcasting industry.
Communication During another year of intensive change, our communication Development with employees has been crucial and evaluation of a range Of particular importance is our ability to develop talent.
of mechanisms deployed has already indicated the positive 2006 saw the early completion of the first phase of our impact these initiatives have had, collectively, on morale and Creating Strong Leaders Programme one year ahead of engagement.
The results of our 2006 employee opinion survey schedule.
This programme offered a development programme carried out in December showed noticeable improvement in levels for all leaders in ITV from the Executive team to our First Level of engagement across the Company and we were delighted to be Leaders covering leaders in creative, technical and general awarded the PR Week award for Internal Communications in management.
In total, 750 managers have attended one of 2006.
We aim for similar levels of improvement in 2007. the three management development programmes and we have seen positive impact on management capability as a result which is measured in a number of ways.
Our Employee Opinion Survey shows improvements in the way our employees feel that they are managed.
Individual managers re-run assessment data at intervals following the training which again is showing improvement.
All managers will undergo this training over three years.
Succession planning for all levels will be a major feature of activity in 2007 so we can deliver the right balance between internal succession and new skills.
25 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Innovation and creativity Our values ITV is a highly innovative company that is succeeding in creating We recognise that values drive behaviours, and behaviours in some of the most popular broadcasting both in the UK and turn drive performance.
We have developed a series of carefully internationally.
considered statements about ITVs values.
We are committed to driving the business forward with our values at the centre of our In 2006 we have developed a centralised innovations unit called operations and in 2007 a significant proportion of management ITV Imagine with a two-fold remit.
incentive opportunity will be set against the delivery of these To generate ideas to enhance the commercial content offering values across the business.
The unit monitors established and emerging trends on both a national and global scale, drawing upon a Commercial we focus on the Company as a business in a variety of sectors such as, but not limited to, technology, arts competitive industry: we respond quickly to the ever-evolving and leisure and popular culture.
By connecting these sectors in market place: we develop for the future while maximising alternative ways, the aim is to create new content opportunities short term returns.
that can resonate with our viewers, and new opportunities for Leading we seek to lead by example to create the best already existing properties.
results: we motivate and direct others toward a common goal: To contribute to the collective creativity of the Company.
we build strong cohesive teams with long term potential.
ITV Imagine has a core role helping to enhance and foster a Customer-centred we understand our viewers and strong creative environment for new ideas and our people.
customers better than anyone, making their needs our This takes the form of workshops with different parts of the first priority and exceeding their expectations: striving to Company specifically addressing creative issues or opportunities, offer the choice that they desire.
and the design of idea-generating tools and practices.
Inclusive we act as one when seeking the best solution for Reputation and corporate responsibility customers and the Company: we aspire to cross-organisational teamwork and mutual support, aiming for the greater good Our reputation is of paramount importance to us.
our corporate responsibility CR policy and the code of conduct for employees, provide the foundation for our responsibility Bold we push boundaries in production, commissioning, programme.
These details are also contained in our recentlytechnology and formats: we seek to be innovative, published Corporate Responsibility report 2006, which is available collaborating and sharing know-how: we take risks and on our website: challenge conventions.
Respectful we celebrate diversity and acknowledge www.
com itv responsibility a differences: listen to everyones views and value all contributions: we ensure all progress is in the best interests of ITV.
Our CR activities play a vital role in creating the right climate Excellent we achieve the highest standards in our products, within which the Company can grow its business with the full performance and processes: we offer the best quality services support of its stakeholders, including investors, employees, across all platforms, demonstrating excellence in all areas customers, suppliers and the regulators.
As a media company of business.
we have the ability to raise awareness, influence opinion and shape discussions.
With such influence comes responsibility.
Committed we are committed to our business, our CR is therefore embedded within the strategic thinking of programmes and to each other: we use every opportunity the Company, notably through a senior management CR to make ITV the best and we are proud to be part of and Operational Risk Steering Group.
This is chaired by the the Company.
Company Secretary, with significant issues being reported to the senior management and Board to ensure proper exposure of the issues which most affect our business.
26 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Resources and relationships Sound editorial decision making, strong creative values and sensitive scheduling are necessary so that we can make popular and engaging TV, without being offensive, harmful, misleading or unfair.
27 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility CR How we have performed in 2006 Our principal CR issues relate to the programmes we make Because of our commitment to take CR issues seriously, ITV has and broadcast.
Television plays a significant role in society and gained a reputation for effective management of stakeholder is highly regulated a section on regulation is included within concerns.
For the second year in succession, we have been voted this Report on pages 19 and 20.
This environment has enabled sectoral leader in the Global Dow Jones Sustainability Index us to establish a strong culture of responsible programming over DJSI.
DJSI considers that we have performed among the best the last 50 years.
in the social dimension, particularly in employment practice indicators, social reporting, editorial policy and protection of Our diverse CR issues divide into two main categories: those to do children.
Our performance in the environmental and economic with what we broadcast On Air and those to do with how we dimensions, and in terms of corporate governance and codes of operate Behind the Scenes.
Whilst it is important that our CR conduct compliance, are considered to constitute good to leading reporting addresses the issues that matter to our stakeholders, practice.
We are included in the FTSE4Good Index and are proud we appreciate that only some of these issues are material to our to be a Company that Counts as a result of our ranking of 42nd business, because of their relevance to our strategy and the risks in the Business in the Community CR index 2005: joint 60th.
posed by a failure to manage them effectively.
We consider that the following CR issues, poorly managed, pose the greatest potential risk to the delivery of our business plan: On Air Responsible programming a breach of regulations could harm our reputation and potentially alienate viewers and advertisers Independent reporting providing balanced, informative and impartial news and current affairs underpins the credibility of our wider market offering Reflecting society the more relevant the programmes to our audience, the more popular they will be and the more attractive to our advertisers Responsible advertising we need to reflect, and anticipate, Looking forward growing stakeholder concerns to avoid reputational impacts We will be conducting more analysis during the year on the and restrictive regulation materiality of the issues contained within our CR programme, Supporting communities failure to leverage the unique and how this can be used to improve our risk analysis and regional nature of our business could undermine an important processes.
We will be considering how we can strengthen the growth area for ITV integration of CR activities within the Company.
We recognise the potential challenges to society created by issues such as climate Behind the Scenes change and will be considering in more detail how to integrate treatment of these topics more fully into our CR strategy.
Creative economy ITV has an important supply chain which needs to be consistent with ITVs values for ITV to deliver its Brand business plan In October 2005, in order to improve our understanding of the Our people our most important asset in creating the unique perception of the ITV brand, we appointed Hall & Partners products and services which help us compete successfully Europe to carry out a continuous brand tracking study.
Health, Safety and the Environment not managing our Gaining insight into our strengths and weaknesses over time, health and safety and environmental impacts in line with this study allows us to track our performance on a like-for-like societys expectations could undermine our credibility with basis against previous periods and to measure our relative position key stakeholders compared to our key competitors.
All of the following metrics were measured for the 4th quarter of 2006 with comparatives for the 4th quarter of 2005.
28 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Resources and relationships Over the course of the study we have identified two key drivers of We believe it is important that our viewers can be confident viewer behaviour: Spontaneous Consideration and Commitment.
that they know in advance whether programmes will be suitable Overall, the ITV family of channels has retained strong albeit slightly for them or their family.
To minimise the risk of offence, we declining, Spontaneous Consideration at 64% 2005: 66%, give pre-transmission on-air announcements where appropriate.
comparing with the BBC at 70% 2005: 70% and C4 at 36% We have a duty office which deals with any issues that our 2005: 35%.
viewers may have and in addition they may raise concerns directly with Ofcom and the Advertising Standards Authority.
For individual channels, the Spontaneous Consideration picture is similar with ITV1 at 57% 2005: 61%, BBC1 at 64% 2005: 62% Our relationship with our advertising community represents one and C4 at 28% 2005: 30%.
Meanwhile, ITV2 has experienced of the most important aspects of our ability to drive value in the growth in Spontaneous Consideration to 15% 2005: 13%, Companys operations.
We have a team which manages the well ahead of its nearest free-to-air channel competitor E4 relationships with advertisers through our partnership programme at 8% 2005: 8%.
by identifying where longer-term relationships are possible and by developing a closer understanding of our customers needs.
A harder measure to improve is Commitment.
Being a favourite channel is more difficult as viewers face an ever-increasing Suppliers number of television entertainment choices.
Against this backdrop, ITV1 Commitment has declined to 40% 2005: 43%.
ITV commissions programmes from independent producers In the same period BBC1 Commitment reduced to 48% consistent with a Code of Practice which is subject to regulation 2005: 52% and C4 increased to 35% 2005: 34%.
ITVs terms of trade for producers have resulted from discussions with the producers body PACT and ITV believes Our marketing efforts are focused on addressing this latter issue that they are considered to be fair and reasonable by market and early results in our brand tracking study are encouraging, participants.
showing that viewers who had been exposed to and recognised our promotional activity have a Commitment level approximately We operate a procurement department to deal with many ten percentage points higher than non-recognisers.
of our major suppliers and to ensure that we deal with them in a consistent and appropriate manner.
Customers We also involve our supply chain in our CR programme and are We have a range of customers, including our viewers and our seeking assurances from selected suppliers that they themselves advertisers, with relationships overseen by a range of commercial have appropriate CR programmes in place.
Serving our viewers lies at the heart of everything we do, and our business is based on the ability to deliver the right kind of quality content that people want to watch.
To understand this we commission an independent research company to recruit and survey a panel of 5,000 adults in the UK.
The panel, selected to be representative of the UK population in its demographic constituency, is regularly asked about programmes that maximise ITVs audience share.
The information gathered represents an important input into the decision-making process of our Broadcasting business.
