89 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Governance Corporate governance The Board of ITV plc is committed to business integrity and high Election and re-election: All directors are required by the Companys ethical values across the Groups operations.
As an essential part of Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first this commitment, the Board supports high standards of corporate Annual General Meeting after their appointment by the Board.
governance and has a policy of seeking to comply with the Subsequently, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders recommendations of the Combined Code and voting guidelines at least every three years.
Directors who reach the age of 70 will retire of our major institutional investors.
The directors who will be seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2007 are set out in the Directors report on Compliance page 47.
The reasons why the Board believes they should be re-elected As required by the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of the Annual General Authority, this report describes how the Company has applied the Meeting sent with this document.
principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate External directorships: With the specific approval of the Board in Governance.
It also discloses the extent to which the Company has each case, executive directors may accept external appointments complied with the Codes provisions.
as non-executive directors of other companies but only one FTSE 100 The Board considers that, throughout the year, the Company company and retain any related fees paid to them.
complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
On 8 January 2007 Michael Grade became Executive Chairman of the Company.
Non-executive directors Whilst the Company does not therefore now comply with code The non-executive directors constructively challenge and help provision A.
2.1, the Board considers that the appointment of develop proposals on strategy.
They bring strong, independent Michael Grade as Executive Chairman provides the Company with judgment, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
a strong and creative leadership which is important at this time of The independent directors are of sufficient calibre and number that rapid change in the television industry.
their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
John Cresswell was appointed as Chief Operating Officer as well Independence: The Combined Code recommends that at least half of as Finance Director, and the executive team report directly to him.
The resultant balance of creative leadership and media management the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The ITV Board considers each of its current skills will promote an acceleration in the improvement of the Companys business.
The appointment of Sir James Crosby as non-executive directors to be independent.
the senior independent director and Chairman of the Nomination Meetings: The non-executive directors meet regularly as a group.
Committee provides an appropriate level of governance control.
Terms of appointment: Subject to the Companys Articles of It is expected that in due course Michael Grade may step down Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance from his executive role and remain as non-executive Chairman.
evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years from commencement of appointment.
At the third and The Board sixth anniversary of the non-executive directors first appointment, the Composition: The Board currently comprises nine members, director will discuss with the Board whether it is appropriate the Executive Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer and Finance for a further three year term to be served.
The re-appointment of Director and seven non-executive directors.
Biographical details directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject for each of the directors are set out on pages 44 and 45. to annual review.
The composition of the Board during 2006 is set out in the Directors report on page 47.
Sir James Crosby, John McGrath, Sir Brian Pitman and Sir George Russell Sir Peter Burt was non-executive Chairman and resigned from completed three years as non-executive directors of ITV plc during the Board on 8 January 2007.
Charles Allen was Chief Executive and the year.
Under the terms of their appointment it has been agreed resigned from the Board on 1 October 2006.
Henry Staunton was that they should commence further three year terms as non-executive Finance Director and resigned on 29 March 2006, being replaced as directors.
Finance Director by John Cresswell who was appointed to the Board Time commitment: The Board is satisfied that each of the on 16 January 2006.
Also during 2006 David Chance resigned as a non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business non-executive director on 13 February 2006 and Mike Clasper was of the Company.
appointed as a non-executive director on 3 January 2006.
Executive Chairman: Michael Grade is Executive Chairman and is Company Secretary responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness The Company Secretary, James Tibbitts, is responsible for advising and setting its agenda.
the Board on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles Deputy Chairman: Sir George Russell is Deputy Chairman of of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for the Company.
decision, provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director: John Cresswell is Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director and has responsibility to the Board for leadership and management of the day-to-day How the Board operates operations of the Company.
Board meetings: The Board is scheduled to meet ten times in 2007 Senior independent director: Sir James Crosby is the senior including two meetings devoted to discussion of strategic matters and may meet at other times as and when required.
He acts as a conduit to the Board for communication of shareholder concerns when other Programme: The Board approves annually a schedule of matters to channels of communication are inappropriate and ensures that the be considered at each meeting and at each meeting of the Audit, performance evaluation of the Chairman is conducted effectively.
Details of his professional commitments are included in his biography on page 45.
The Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
The job descriptions of the Executive Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer and the senior independent director are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
90 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Governance Corporate governance Attendance: Attendance of directors at Board and Strategy meetings Sir George Russell, Deputy Chairman.
The evaluation process required during 2006 is set out below.
each director to complete a detailed questionnaire designed to provide the Deputy Chairman with a means of making year-on-year Board and Strategy meeting attendance comparisons.
The questions covered a range of issues such as board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 2 processes, board roles and responsibilities, board agendas, committee processes, individual effectiveness, training and continuing professional Sir Peter Burt development.
Sir George Russell 1 The results were collated and the consolidated results were Charles Allen 2 presented to the Deputy Chairman.
Individual director assessments David Chance were discussed by the Deputy Chairman together with goals for 3 Mike Clasper the following year.
The results of the evaluation together with 4 John Cresswell recommendations for the year were discussed at Board level.
Sir James Crosby The performance review of the Chief Operating Officer and Finance John McGrath Director was conducted by the Deputy Chairman taking into account Sir Robert Phillis the views of other directors.
Sir Brian Pitman Induction and continuing professional development: The Company Baroness Usha Prashar has a policy and programme for induction and continuing professional 5 Henry Staunton development, which is reviewed annually.
Strategy meeting On appointment, each director takes part in an induction 1 Charles Allen resigned on 1 October 2006 programme when he or she receives information about the Group 2 David Chance resigned on 13 February 2006 in the form of presentations by executives from the business and 3 Mike Clasper appointed to the Board on 3 January 2006 4 John Cresswell appointed to the Board on 16 January 2006 on the regulatory environment.
They also meet representatives 5 Henry Staunton resigned on 29 March 2006 of the Companys key advisers.
In addition they receive information Responsibility and delegation: The specific responsibilities are set about the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
These include: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees, and the powers delegated to those Committees, the Companys setting long-term objectives and corporate strategy and corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial approving an annual budget: information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key approving major acquisitions: locations and meetings with key senior executives and meetings with major shareholders.
Throughout their period in office, the directors are divestments and capital expenditure: continually updated on the Groups businesses, the competitive and approving Board appointments: regulatory environments in which they operate, corporate responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Group and the markets in reviewing systems of financial control and risk management: and which it operates.
This is provided by written briefings and meetings approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
with senior executives across the Group and from meetings with key advisers.
Directors are also advised on appointment of their legal and The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company, both the key Committees being the Audit Committee, the Nomination in writing and in face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary.
Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further information They are briefed regularly on changes to the legal and governance is provided below.
requirements of the Group and in relation to their own position Information flow: Regular reports and papers are circulated to the as directors.
directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by other relevant Board Committees information when applicable or if requested.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board The non-executive directors receive monthly management accounts Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all and regular management reports which enable them to scrutinise the Board members.
The terms of reference for each Committee Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
The Company has developed a website for the use of its directors.
The website is regularly updated with performance data, information Audit Committee about the Company and other corporate governance matters.
Composition: During 2006 the Audit Committee comprised the Independent professional advice: Directors are given access to following members: independent professional advice at the Companys expense, when John McGrath Chairman of the Committee the directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out Mike Clasper their responsibilities.
Sir James Crosby Baroness Usha Prashar Insurance: The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers with a cover limit of 75 million.
Sir James Crosby ceased to be a member of the Committee on 19 February 2007.
Indemnities: The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with its directors.
Attendance during 2006: Audit Committee meeting attendance Board effectiveness Performance evaluation: The Board has established a formal process for 12 3 4 5 1 the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, Mike Clasper and individual directors with particular attention given to those who are Sir James Crosby due for re-election.
The directors are made aware, on appointment, that John McGrath their performance will be subject to an annual evaluation.
Baroness Usha Prashar Some of the actions taken during 2006 resulting from the 2005 1 Mike Clasper appointed to Audit Committee on 16 January 2006 evaluation included reviewing board structure, independence issues and ensuring appropriate mix of experience and expertise: more detailed reviews on succession planning and more regular site visits for non-executive directors.
The evaluation for 2006 was led by 91 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least considering internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial recommendations made in those reports and the status of progress experience.
The Board has considered this requirement, and has against previously agreed actions: concluded that the wide range of business and financial experience reviewing the results of the annual Group risk assessment of the Committee members as a whole, gained at the highest level of process, including consideration of a rolling programme of risk and UK FTSE 100 companies and other blue-chip organisations, is sufficient internal control presentations made by each operating team and to enable the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a robust central service functions: and independent manner.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 44 and 45. reviewing an annual report on the effectiveness of the Groups At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief system of internal control and reporting to the Board on the results Operating Officer and Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit of that review: and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend Audit meeting privately with both the external and internal auditors, Committee meetings.
The Committee as a whole has the opportunity without management being present, to discuss the remit of their to meet privately with the internal and external auditors at any time work and any issues arising from its performance: they consider appropriate.
In 2006 one private meeting was held with each of the internal and external auditors.
considering proposed policies in respect of interest rate Terms of reference: In accordance with the Committees terms of management and tax risk management prior to presentation reference the Committees main role and responsibilities include: to the Board for approval: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: considering the Groups expenditure approval framework prior to Board review and approval: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: considering regulatory and professional developments in respect of financial accounting and reporting.
In 2006, this included reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise consideration of a statement issued by the ABI Investment concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial Committee on the subject of auditor engagement, recent reporting or other matters: consultations of the Professional Oversight Board and the revised monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal requirements of the Companies Act in respect of disclosure of audit function: and information to auditors: and considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to considering an outline Business Review for inclusion in the 2006 report the appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of and accounts.
Auditors independence and objectivity The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information The Audit Committee regularly monitors the other services that it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Companys being provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair their its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a independence or objectivity, and that the Group maintains a meeting of the Committee as and when required.
sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
The policy The Committee works to a structured programme of activities with agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual sets out four key principles which underpin the provision of other financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the services by the external auditors: the auditor should not audit its Committee is required to consider regularly.
own firms work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, or be put in Activities in 2006: The Audit Committee met five times and discharged the role of advocate for the Group.
The policy sets a maximum its responsibilities by: 1:1 ratio for the annual split between audit and other fees charged reviewing the Groups draft financial statements including detailed by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has pre-approved the disclosures prior to Board approval: categories of other services that may be performed by the external auditors and explicitly set out the categories of work that they may reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies not perform.
For this purpose auditing the accounts of subsidiaries and and considering related accounting treatments in specific areas associates pursuant to legislation and other services provided pursuant such as revenue recognition: to legislation are regarded as audit services.
The Audit Committee performing a specific review of the Groups goodwill accounting, believes that these policies accord with governance best practice.
including the methodology and assumptions made in relation to Audit Committee approval is required for any engagement of the goodwill impairment testing: external auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of 0.1 million.
The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by reviewing and approving the annual external audit plan: the external auditors to review the independence and objectivity reviewing the external auditors reports on their work, considering the of the external auditors, taking into consideration relevant professional findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters had and regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the been satisfactorily resolved: provision of permissible other services.
The Audit Committee also performs a specific evaluation of the performance of the external reviewing the management letter arising from the 2005 year-end auditors annually, through assessment of the results of questionnaires external audit: completed by relevant executive management in addition to Committee considering a review of the effectiveness of the external auditors: members own views of auditor performance.
The Company will carry monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the out market testing or a form of audit tender every five years from Group by its external auditors.
The Committee has approved a formal appointment of external auditors.
policy governing the independence of the Companys external auditors and defining those non-audit services that may be provided Internal control to the Group, including those which require the prior approval of the The Combined Code requires that companies review, at least annually, Committee.
Details of the related audit and other services are set out all material internal controls including financial, operational, compliance in note 4 of the financial statements: controls and risk management systems.
In October 2005 the Financial Reporting Council issued revised guidance to directors in respect of reviewing and approving the internal audit plan and resources for compliance with the internal control requirements of the Combined the internal audit function.
The internal audit plan is constructed Code.
In the opinion of the Board the Company has complied with this taking a risk based approach with the review cycle designed such guidance throughout the year, maintaining an ongoing process for that financially material operations are reviewed annually and all identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
activities reviewed at least once every three years: 92 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Governance Corporate governance The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal Attendance during 2006: control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
Nomination Committee meeting attendance The primary responsibility for the operation of these systems is 12 3 4 5 67 8 delegated to line management.
Such systems can only provide Sir Peter Burt reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement Sir George Russell or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: Mike Clasper Sir James Crosby Strategy and financial reporting: The Group performs a John McGrath comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.
Sir Brian Pitman The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal Sir Robert Phillis responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, Baroness Usha Prashar compared with their individual budgets and forecast figures and are reviewed on a month-by-month basis.
Terms of reference: The principal responsibilities of the Committee include: Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: The Group reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board: has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect identifying and nominating for Board approval, candidates to fill of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, Board vacancies: investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly defined.
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Control environment: Financial controls and procedures are Board: and considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process and are reviewed as part of the Groups internal audit considering succession planning for directors and other work programme.
Risk assessment: Management has responsibility for the Activities in 2006: The Committee initiated the search for a new Chief Executive using a professional search firm.
After consideration identification of risks facing each of the Groups businesses and for putting in place controls and procedures to mitigate and monitor of a number of candidates Michael Grade was appointed as Executive Chairman on 8 January 2007 and John Cresswell became Chief those risks.
A formal annual risk assessment process has been established, the results of which are reported to the executive Operating Officer and Finance Director.
The Committee considers the composition of the Board on an directors and Board.
Key risks, mitigating controls and required actions are identified and monitored by the executive directors and Audit annual basis to ensure the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Risks are also reviewed at least annually by the executive directors, who meet with the senior management of each business Management Committee The Management Committee comprises the executive directors team and with the heads of significant central service functions specifically to discuss the risks facing their areas.
In addition, a rolling provided that should there at any time be only one executive director then the Committee shall comprise that executive director and any programme of risk assessment presentations are made to the Audit Committee to enable it to review the risks in these areas at least once one or more non-executive directors.
The Committee meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits a year.
delegated by the Board and subject to those matters reserved to Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: the Board.
Controls are monitored by management review, Internal Audit, the executive directors and the Audit Committee.
Directors of Relations with shareholders each business team are required annually to confirm compliance The Board attaches a high priority to communications with with internal financial control in their area.
In addition to the preliminary and interim results weaknesses if any are reported to the Board as appropriate.
presentations and the Annual General Meeting, a series of meetings The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the between institutional shareholders, the Chairman, the senior Groups systems of internal controls for the period ended independent director and the Chief Operating Officer and Finance 31 December 2006.
Director are held throughout the year.
In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations under the Combined Code, the Chairman gives feedback to Remuneration Committee the Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 93 to 101.
The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide Attendance during 2006: range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Company has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders Remuneration Committee meeting attendance on a range of issues affecting its performance.
These include meetings 1 2 3 458 6 7 following the announcement of the annual results with the Companys largest institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Company responds Sir George Russell to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional Sir Brian Pitman shareholders.
Sir Robert Phillis Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask Nomination Committee questions during the meeting and to meet with directors prior to and Composition: During 2006 the Nomination Committee comprised all after the formal proceedings.
All directors, except for Sir Robert Phillis the independent non-executive directors.
who was unwell, attended the Annual General Meeting held in May On 5 March 2007 the Board agreed that the Nomination 2006.
At the meeting the Chairman reviews the Groups current trading.
Committee should comprise Sir James Crosby Chairman, Mike Clasper, Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with any related Sir Robert Phillis and Sir George Russell.
documents, is mailed to shareholders about seven weeks before the The Nomination Committee meets at least twice a year.
Additional meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially meetings were held in 2006 due to the search for a new Chief Executive.
At the meeting all resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on a resolution is announced to the meeting following voting and is made available on a regulatory news service the following day and on the Company website at www.
com within 48 hours following the meeting.
See page 103 for contacts and documents available on our website.
