Statement of corporate governance The following sections explain how the Company applies the principles This led to the appointment of John McAdam on 1 September 2005 as and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate a Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
During the Governance the Code.
period up to his appointment the Board had ensured that the governance responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director role were adequately The Board fulfilled.
The Chairman has been available to all major shareholders since The Board is chaired by Philip Hampton, who was appointed Chairman his appointment and regularly meets with them.
At 16 May 2006, the Board consisted of two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors, in addition to the Chairman.
The Boards role Dr John McAdam, Chief Executive of ICI plc, was appointed Senior The Board supports the executive management team in delivering Independent Director on 1 September 2005.
Darren Shapland was sustainable added value for shareholders.
It considers strategic issues, appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 August 2005, key projects and major investments and regularly monitors performance replacing Roger Matthews who retired from the Board on 24 June 2005. against delivery of the key targets of the Business Review.
It approves June fide Moller retired from the Board with effect from 1 September 2005. the corporate plan and the annual budget and reviews performance Anna Ford joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 May 2006. against targets at every meeting.
It has been fully engaged in the major Bridget Macaskill will retire from the Board after this years Annual projects throughout the year, including the migration of the IT functions General Meeting AGM.
back to Sainsburys, the Groups debt restructuring, the commitment to make a one off contribution of 350 million into the defined benefit Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 26. pension schemes and the related benefit changes.
During the year, the The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year, including a two Board has considered succession planning at Operating Board level and day strategy conference, and has visited the Fosse Park store and the reviewed the Companys development and leadership programmes.
The Board met on an informal basis on The Board delegates certain functions to its three principal committees.
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity of financial information, the effectiveness of the financial controls and Division of responsibilities the internal control and risk management systems.
The Remuneration There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
Philip Hampton is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors and has its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective responsibility for succession planning at Board level.
These and other communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the key responsibilities are formally reserved powers of the Board.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive Attendance and Non-Executive Directors.
He ensures that the Chief Executive During the year the Directors attended the following number of meetings develops a strategy which is supported by the Board as a whole.
Justin of the Board and its Committees the number of meetings held whilst they King is responsible for executing the strategy once agreed by the Board.
were Directors is shown in brackets : He creates a framework of values, organisation and objectives to ensure Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, with the Chairman, in Number of meetings the relationship with all external agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
Jamie Dundas 9 9 5 5 3 3 4 4 Philip Hampton 9 9 3 3 Independence Non-Executive Directors Gary Hughes 9 9 5 5 3 3 The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his Justin King 9 9 appointment and all the Non-Executive Directors who have served during 2 John McAdam 7 7 1 2 2 2 the year are considered to be independent according to the principles Bridget Macaskill 8 9 3 3 4 4 of the Code.
Bob Stack is a director of Cadbury Schweppes PLC which 1 Darren Shapland 7 7 supplies products to Sainsburys, but neither the Board, nor Cadbury Bob Stack 9 9 3 3 4 4 Schweppes consider the relationship to be material in the context of their overall businesses.
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2005 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005 The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
They are appointed for an initial Directors who left the Board during the year three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment, after which their appointment may be extended for a Roger Matthews 1 1 second term, subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
The June fide Moller 2 2 3 3 1 1 Non-Executive Directors held several meetings during the year without the Executive Directors being present, and met separately without the Chairman being present.
As reported in last years Annual Report, following the previous Senior Independent Directors resignation in September 2004, the Nomination Committee had been conducting an extensive search through Egon Zehnder International, the international search consultancy, for a new Non-Executive Director who would join the Board as its Senior Independent Director.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 37 Statement of corporate governance continued Information and development Board Committees The quality and supply of information provided to the Board was reviewed The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Chairman is responsible for and Remuneration Committees.
ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee was chaired by Jamie Dundas with There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may Gary Hughes and John McAdam and June fide Moller until her retirement take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the as its other members all of whom are independent Non-Executive furtherance of their duties.
The Company has a programme for meeting Directors.
Gary Hughes, took over as Chairman of the Committee on Directors training and development requirements.
The Board has determined that both Jamie Dundas and Directors who do not have previous public company experience at Gary Hughes have recent and relevant financial experience.
Philip Board level are provided with appropriate training on their role and Hampton, Justin King, Darren Shapland, Richard Chadwick, Head of responsibilities.
Gary Hughes, Bob Stack and John McAdam have Internal Audit and the external auditors are invited to attend Committee participated during the year in comprehensive and tailored induction meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
programmes including store and depot visits and meetings with members of the Operating Board, senior management and external advisors.
During the year the Committee met on five occasions, the agendas being Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis to meet particular organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
It monitored the needs with the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcements During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewed any updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, new disclosure significant financial judgements contained in them.
It has received regular rules and continuing obligations, whilst the Audit Committee regularly updates on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and considers new accounting developments through presentations from has monitored progress in meeting the new reporting requirements.
management and the external auditors.
The Board programme includes The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys presentations from management at every meeting which, together with financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems, site visits, increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the and has monitored progress to ensure that any required remedial action business and the sector.
has been or is being taken on any identified weaknesses.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company During the year, the Committee reviewed  LLPs Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are PwC overall work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and removal of engagement and considered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
performance and independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process.
The Committee recommended PwCs re-appointment as auditors Performance evaluation to the Board and this resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
During the year the Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which restricts performance and effectiveness, and of its Committees and individual the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
The policy is directors, with the assistance of Egon Zehnder.
Following an initial designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have meeting with the Chairman to agree the key objectives of the exercise, an impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Egon Zehnder met separately with each Director and the Company It identifies certain types of engagement that the external auditors shall Secretary and discussed the Boards role and structure, process and not undertake and others that can only be undertaken with appropriate relationships and any emerging issues and then presented the findings authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee where to the Board, identifying the key themes that were working well and areas non-audit fees will exceed preset thresholds.
During the year the policy which could be improved or approached differently.
Egon Zehnder also was reviewed and the authority thresholds were lowered.
The Committee provided individual feedback to each Director and the Company Secretary.
also agreed that if the level of non-audit fees reaches the level of the audit The Senior Independent Director received their comments on the fees all future non-audit work will be approved by the Committee Chairmans performance and subsequently met with the other NonChairman before PwC are instructed.
The Committee receives regular Executive Directors to review the Chairmans performance and provide reports on the non-audit services provided by PwC.
The Chairman separately reviewed the contribution of each of the Directors with them.
The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments resources, budget, work programme, results and managements Operating Board implementation of its recommendations, and conducted a formal review Day to day management of the Company is delegated to the Operating of the departments effectiveness during the year.
The Head of Internal Board which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board holds 10 Audit has direct access to the Committee Chairman and Philip Hampton.
Directors responsibilities and biographies are Jamie Dundas has held separate meetings with him and PwC during set out on page 27.
It has formal terms of reference setting out its key the year, whilst the Committee regularly met with PwC without responsibilities.
Minutes are copied to the Chairman and Non-Executive management being present, and may meet the Head of Internal Audit Directors.
It has delegated certain powers to the Trading Board, which when it deems necessary.
is responsible for ranging and sourcing product, price and promotions, The Committee has reviewed the Companys whistleblowing procedures advertising and marketing: to the Retail Board, which has responsibility and confirmed that arrangements are in place to enable colleagues to for stores, service and availability and supply chain operations: and to the raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and Investment Board, which is responsible for investment decisions.
The other matters on a confidential basis.
Trading Board is chaired by Mike Coupe, Trading Director, the Retail Board is chaired by Ken McMeikan, Retail Director and the Investment Board by The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the website Darren Shapland, Chief Financial Officer.
co. uk governance, set out the Committees responsibilities.
regularly attend and present at Board meetings as well as the Directors Conference.
38 J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Repor eport t and Financial S and Financial St tat atement ements s 2 2006 006 Statement of corporate governance continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Philip Hampton and comprises regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is not a member of the and results of internal audit work across the Company and of the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
The scope of the work covers all key activities of the Group and concentrates on higher risk areas: The Committee led the recruitment process for each of the Board appointments during the year, which has resulted in John McAdam, reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors by the Audit Darren Shapland and Anna Ford being appointed.
The international Committee and any significant issues arising: search consultants, Egon Zehnder International, were instructed by reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels of the Committee on the searches.
The Committee considered the skills, delegated authority: and knowledge, background and experience required for each role, and prepared a job specification for each appointment.
The Committee also consideration by the Board of the major risks facing the Group and by specified the time commitment expected of the Non-Executive Director the Audit Committee of the procedures to manage them.
Egon Zehnder drew up a list of possible candidates for each role health and safety, legal compliance, litigation, quality assurance, for initial interviews with Philip Hampton and Justin King.
Profiles of a insurance and security and social, ethical and environmental risks.
shortlist of preferred candidates were prepared for the Committee and There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the potential composition and mix of the candidates were considered from the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place a team perspective in order to ensure a complementary combination of throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report competencies and experience.
Prior to each appointment the Committee and Financial Statements and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The considered a full range of references and the Non-Executive Directors met effectiveness of the process is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee the preferred candidate.
which then reports to the Board.
The process consists of: The Committees terms of reference are available on the website formal identification by management at each level of the Company www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees through a self assessment process of the key risks to achieving their responsibilities.
The Committee meets when necessary and in 2005 06 business objectives and the controls in place to manage them.
The met on three occasions and received regular updates on the likelihood and potential impact of each risk is evaluated and actions recruitment process.
necessary to mitigate them are identified and monitored: All Directors are required to seek election by shareholders at the first certification by management that they are responsible for managing opportunity after their appointment and must stand for re-election to the the risks to their business objectives and that the internal controls Board every three years under the Companys Articles of Association.
are such that they provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, Remuneration Committee evaluated and managed: The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack who was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company and Chairman of the Committee on 1 January reporting and review by the Board of each operating company of risk 2005.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 41 to 49. management activities and actions taken to address non-compliance with controls or to improve their effectiveness: Internal control assurance from specialist functions and committees that legal and The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal controls, regulatory, health and safety, and social, ethical and environmental including risk management, and has delegated certain responsibilities risks are appropriately identified and managed: and to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and ensured that any independent assurance by Internal Audit as to the existence and required remedial action has or is being taken on any identified weaknesses.
effectiveness of the risk management activities described by management.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate The system of internal control and risk management is embedded into the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can the operations of the Company, and the actions taken to mitigate any only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material weaknesses are carefully monitored.
It includes all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The processes used to Corporate responsibility assess the effectiveness of the internal control systems are ongoing, Corporate responsibility is an everyday part of how the Company does enabling a cumulative assessment to be made, and include the following: business and is co-ordinated by the Corporate Responsibility Steering discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategic Group chaired by Gwyn Burr, which reports on a regular basis to the direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: Operating Board and twice annually to the Board.
A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility priorities and activities during the review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including year are set out on page 24.
A separate Corporate Responsibility Report both revenue and capital expenditure: will be published on the website in June.
The Association of British regular operational and financial reviews of performance against Insurers recommends that the Board considers material risks and control budgets and forecasts by management and the Board: processes relating to corporate responsibility.
The Audit Committees review of the system of internal controls and risk management processes regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives referred to above includes corporate responsibility and the Committee and actions being taken to mitigate them: considers any major corporate responsibility or brand reputation risks regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified identified by the process, to the extent any such exist.
fraudulent activity and any whistleblowing by colleagues or suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses: J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 39 Statement of corporate governance continued Investor relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman, Philip Hampton, is generally available to shareholders and he met a number of institutional investors as part of the consultation process for the new Long-Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors who, along with buyside and sellside analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys interim and full year results.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations and conference calls are webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk investors so as to be available to all investors.
The Company also held a presentation on the anticipated impact of IFRS in April 2005.
In July, the Operating Board hosted a visit to the Canley store and Hams Hall distribution centre for investors and analysts.
Makinson Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and reported to the Board on the views of institutional investors.
Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys Investor Relations department.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the AGM which will be held on 12 July 2006.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King will make a business presentation.
The Senior Independent Director and Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions.
A detailed explanation of each item of special business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on page 102 and on the Companys website www.
Compliance statement During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code except that, as explained above, at the start of the year the Company had a vacancy in the role of Senior Independent Director, which was filled when John McAdam was appointed on 1 September 2005.
40 J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Repor eport t and Financial S and Financial St tat atement ements s 2 2006 006
