Corporate governance Statement of compliance The board comprises the following members: The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate Tim Martin, chairman governance, as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
John Hutson, chief executive officer The board believes that the company has been fully compliant Jim Clarke, finance director and company secretary throughout the year ended 30 July 2006, with the exception of John Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and senior director the following: Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director Debra van Gene, non-executive director Only two non-executive directors presently serve on the audit committee and one is considered non-independent under the Suzanne Baker resigned from the board on 20 December 2005: code.
The company has recruited two new independent nonBrian Jervis resigned from the board on 10 November 2005. executive directors over the last 18 months to complement the Debra van Gene was appointed to the board on 1 March 2006. current board structure.
Biographies about all non-executive and executive directors can be Although the non-executive deputy chairman is considered to be viewed on the companys Web site: www.
co. uk non-independent under the code, owing to the length of service, the board considers that the benefits and experience John Herring There is clear and documented division of responsibilities brings to the company outweighs any technical issue with regard to between the chairman and the chief executive officer.
The division is set out below.
The board of directors On appointment to the board, every director is provided with a The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that the comprehensive induction programme, covering all aspects of the strategy for J D Wetherspoons business is appropriate and companys operations.
Formal evaluation of the board and implemented effectively.
The matters which are reserved to the individual members, together with appraisals, take place annually, board and the authorities delegated to management are contained conducted by the chairman and deputy chairman, with any training within the matters reserved for the board schedule, as well as and development needs evaluated as part of the process.
Site visits within the various policies covering such matters as treasury are arranged regularly to enable non-executive directors to see, management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters, at first hand, the operations of the business.
internal audit and risk management.
Chairmans responsibility Chief executives responsibility Delegated responsibility of authority to exchange contracts Develop and maintain effective management controls, on behalf of the company planning and performance measurements Provide support, advice and feedback to the chief executive Develop and maintain an effective organisational structure Support the company strategy and encourage the chief executive External and internal communications, in conjunction with the with development of the strategy chairman, on any issues facing the company Maintain relations with investors Implement and monitor compliance with board policies Chair general meetings, board meetings, operational meetings Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board and agree board agendas Manage chief executives contract, appraisal and remuneration Recruit and manage senior managers within the business by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Provide support to executive directors and senior managers of Develop and maintain effective risk management and the company regulatory controls Provide the ethos and vision of the company Maintain primary relationships with shareholders Provide operational presence across the estate Chair the management board responsible for implementing the company strategy 18 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate governance Information is normally furnished to all board members in The articles require that one-third of the directors retire by rotation, the week before a board meeting, to enable the directors to subject to the requirement that each director seek re-election every consider the issues for discussion and to request clarification or three years.
During the year ended 30 July 2006, non-executive directors met All directors are provided with, and have full and timely access to, without the chairman to consider his performance and provided information which enables them to make informed decisions on feedback to the chairman following their meetings.
corporate and business issues, including operational and financial performance.
In particular, the board receives monthly information In accordance with the Combined Code and corporate governance on the financial trading performance of the company and a best practice, the board has several established committees as comprehensive finance report which includes operational highlights.
The board met seven times during the year ended All directors receive sales and margin information for the company 30 July 2006, with the attendance of the directors and weekly by trading unit.
non-executives, where appropriate, shown below.
Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 7311 Tim Martin 6 n a n a n a John Hutson 7 n a n a n a Jim Clarke 7 3 n a n a John Herring 7311 Elizabeth McMeikan 5311 Debra van Gene 2 n a Jim Clarke, in his role of finance director, attends audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant financial matters.
Matters reserved for the board Secretarial The following matters are reserved for the board: Call of all shareholders meetings Delegation of board powers Board and management Disclosure of directors interests Structure and senior management responsibilities General Nomination of directors Board framework of executive remuneration and costs Appointment of chairman and company secretary Any other matters not within the terms of reference of any Strategic matters committee of the board Strategic, financing or adoption of new business plans, in respect Any other matter as determined from time to time by the board of any material aspect of the company Business control Board committees Agreement of code of ethics and business practice Internal audit Audit committee Authority limits for heads of department The committee is chaired by John Herring and includes Elizabeth McMeikan.
Representatives of the companys external Operating budgets auditors,  LLP, attend audit committee The entry into finance and operating leases of meetings at the half year and year end.
Under the terms of the code, a certain capital value one of the two members of the committee was not independent Investments and capital projects exceeding set value and the further third position is acknowledged as being vacant.
Changes in major supply contracts Finance In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively Raising new capital and confirmation of major facilities reviewed the following: Specific risk-management policies, including insurance, The scope and nature of the work to be performed by the hedging and borrowing limits external auditors, before the audit commenced Final approval of annual and interim accounts and A full review of the half-year and annual financial statements accounting policies Compliance with accounting standards Appointment of external auditors Compliance with stock exchange, legal and regulatory requirements Legal matters The integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements, Consideration of regular reports on material issues relating to the financial performance of the company relating to any litigation affecting the company The findings of the internal audit report and management Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed certain values responses at the half year and year end ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 19 Corporate governance The effectiveness of internal control systems Regular feedback from the companys stockbrokers Final review of the companys statement on internal control Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated systems, before endorsement by the board to shareholders Any aspect of the accounts or the companys control and audit Any significant changes in shareholder movement notified to the procedures, the interim and final audits and any other matters the board by the company secretary, as and when required auditor may consider The company secretary maintains procedures and agreements for Ensuring that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and brought all announcements to the city to the attention of the board A programme of regular meetings between investors and Risk-management systems adopted and implemented directors of the company, including the senior independent director, by the company as appropriate The minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated by the Risk management secretary of the committee to all members of the board.
The audit The board is responsible for the companys risk-management committee chairman, John Herring, is available at the annual process.
The finance director, Jim Clarke, chairs the company risk general meeting of the company, to answer questions on financial management committee, comprising senior management within control and reporting.
The committee meets four times a year and reports twice yearly to the audit committee.
The key function of the The audit committee is aware of the companys process with regard committee is set out below.
to whistle-blowing and has reviewed its effectiveness.
To review on behalf of the company and the board the key risks Particular attention is paid to the engagement of the companys which have an impact on the business and systems of control auditors on non-audit work.
For several years, the company has necessary to manage such risks separated the provision of taxation compliance from the provision Maintain a risk register for each area of the business and review of audit services.
quarterly Review the effectiveness of the companys risk-management Remuneration committee process The company remuneration committee is chaired by John Herring Report to the board twice yearly and as necessary any identified and comprises Debra van Gene and Elizabeth McMeikan.
The risk and mitigation plans implemented directors report on remuneration is set out on pages 12 to 16.
Under the terms of the code, one of the three members of the Internal control committee was not independent.
During the year, the company and the board continued to support and invest in resource to provide an internal audit and riskNomination committee management function.
The system of internal control and risk A formal nomination committee has been established, mitigation is deeply embedded in the operations and culture of the comprising John Herring chairman, Debra van Gene and company.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system Elizabeth McMeikan.
The nomination committee meets, as of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can appropriate, and considers all possible board appointments and only manage, rather than eliminate entirely, and can provide only also the re-election of directors, both executive and non-executive.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material No director is involved in any decision about his or her own misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews and assessments took place re-appointment.
Under the terms of the code, one of the three continually throughout the year.
members of the committee was not independent.
The company has an internal audit function which is The process which led to the appointment of Debra van Gene as discharged as follows: a non-executive director was led by the chairman of the Adequate regular audits of the company stock nomination committee.
Unannounced visits to the retail units Monitoring systems which control the company cash Company secretary All directors have access to the advice of the company secretary, The company has key procedures in place, as follows: who is responsible to the board for ensuring that procedures are Clearly defined authority limits and controls over cash-handling, followed.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary purchasing commitments and capital expenditure is reserved for the consideration of the board as a whole.
Comprehensive budgeting process, with a detailed operating plan Procedures are in place for seeking independent professional for twelve months and a mid-term financial plan, both approved by advice, at the companys expense.
the board Business results are reported weekly for key times, with a Relations with shareholders monthly comprehensive report in full, and compared with budget The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all board Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, members are kept aware of both the views of major shareholders for review by the board and changes in the major shareholdings of the company.
Efforts Complex treasury instruments are not used: decisions on made to accomplish effective communication include: treasury matters are reserved by the board The annual general meeting, considered to be an important The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board the system of internal control.
