JJB Sports plc Corporate governance report Introduction JJB is fully committed to high standards of corporate governance and sets out below its report on how it complies with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Compliance The Company has, throughout the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code with the exceptions listed below: Code provision A3.2 requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors who are determined by the Board to be independent.
The Code provision has not been complied with for the period from 6 July 2005, following the appointment of Roger Lane-Smith as Non-executive Chairman and David Whelan as an Executive Director, up to 12 October 2005 as only 2 Directors were considered to be independent during this period, compared to a total of 4 Executive Directors.
From 12 October 2005 following the appointment of Roger Best, to the current date, there have been 3 independent Directors compared to four Executive Directors.
Given the size of the Group and experience of the Board members, the balance of Non-executive and Executive Directors is considered to be appropriate.
Code provision B2.1 requires that the Board should establish a Remuneration Committee which comprises at least three members who should be considered to be independent Directors.
The Code provision has not been complied with because from 6 July 2005, following the appointment of Roger Lane-Smith as Non-executive Chairman, to 12 October 2005, the Remuneration Committee included only 2 Directors who were considered to be independent.
Upon the appointment of Roger Best on 12 October 2005 to the current date, the Remuneration Committee has included three independent members in addition to the Chairman.
Therefore the Board has concluded that this is sufficient to ensure the effectiveness of the Committee.
Further explanation of how the principals have been applied is set out below and in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 33 of this Annual report.
The Board of Directors The Board, which is ultimately responsible for the direction, management and performance of the company, met 7 times during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006.
On 6 July 2005, the date of the last Annual General Meeting AGM, it was announced that David Whelan had stepped down from the position of Chairman to become an Executive Director and that Roger Lane-Smith had been appointed as Non-executive Chairman.
Following the appointment of Roger Best as a Non-executive Director on 12 October 2005, the Board currently comprises 4 Executive directors, including the Chief Executive and 4 Non-executive Directors including the Non-executive Chairman.
Short biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 16 to 17 of this Annual report.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the roles of Roger Lane-Smith Non-executive Chairman who is responsible for the operation of the Board and Tom Knight Chief Executive who is responsible for implementing strategy.
Andrew Thomas is the nominated senior independent Non-executive Director.
The Board determines corporate strategy and reviews both financial and operational performance against forecasts.
Full and timely access to all relevant information is provided to all Board members, via comprehensive information packs, in order that it can discharge its duties effectively.
The information packs are produced in advance of Board meetings and include up to date management accounts and detailed trading information.
All the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of Management and of the Companys major shareholders.
Although the Non-executive Chairman, Roger Lane-Smith was Senior Partner at DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary UK LLP DLA from 1998 to 2005, a firm of solicitors used by JJB, it is not the belief of the Executive Directors, that the fees paid to DLA are such as to interfere with his independent character, judgment and integrity: during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006, 311,000 was paid to DLA for legal work incurred during the ordinary course of business 2005: 361,000.
Included in the fees paid to DLA during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 was 207,000 2005: 261,000 of costs in respect of defending the action bought against JJB by the Office of Fair Trading.
The amount paid by the Group to DLA during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006, represented less than 0.1 per cent of DLAs UK fee income.
All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by the Companys shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
A number of Directors closest to but not exceeding one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year or, if this gives a number less than 3, then 1 further Director should retire.
All Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
The Board of Directors note provision A7.2 of the Code which states that any term of office beyond 6 years for a Non-executive Director to serve on the Board should be subject to a particularly rigorous review and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
In addition, the Code states that a Non-executive Director may serve longer than 9 years if he is subject to annual re-election but that serving more than 9 years could be relevant to the determination of a Non-executive Directors independence.
At the time of the last AGM on 6 July 2005, Andrew Thomas who has been a Non-executive Director of JJB since 1994, advised the Meeting that because of the Code provision he would retire at the time of the 2006 AGM.
22 JJB Sports plc Corporate governance report continued The Board of Directors continued The Board has since given consideration to this matter and recognises the wide range of experience that Andrew Thomas brings to JJB, both as a practicing accountant and as the former Executive Chairman of a PLC operating in the same part of the leisure industry in which JJBs Leisure Division operates.
The Board believes that JJB would benefit from this experience over the next 12 months and that Andrew Thomas continues to act in an independent manner.
The Board has therefore asked Andrew Thomas to remain on the Board for a further year.
Andrew Thomas has agreed to this request and will remain in the office until the date of the next AGM, subject to his re-election at the 2006 AGM.
Details of the notice periods in the service contracts of Executive and Non-executive Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 31 and 32 of this Annual report.
There is an established procedure whereby any Director may, in the furtherance of their duties, have access to independent professional advice and services at the Groups expense.
The Finance Director also acts as the Company Secretary and as such is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Board seeks independent advice whenever necessary.
Where considered appropriate, relevant training is made available to any Director and the need for such training is assessed on a regular basis.
In order to assist in the discharge of corporate governance responsibilities, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
These committees are described below.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which meets twice a year, is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who has recent and relevant financial experience, and also comprises of David Beever and Roger Best with the Finance Director and the Groups external auditors in attendance.
The Audit Committee consults with the external auditors on the Groups financial statements, accounting policies, internal controls and the risk management process as well as any other matters raised by the external auditors.
The Committees responsibilities also include making a recommendation to the Board on the appointment, retirement and removal of the external auditors.
The Committee also considers the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the services they provide, and the scope of their audit work and related fees along with a review of their reported findings.
Any matters raised at the Audit Committee meetings are, if appropriate, discussed and dealt with at subsequent Board Meetings.
The Groups Risk Control Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Non-executive Chairman and to members of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises all the independent Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Roger Lane-Smith.
The Committee reviews and approves the contractual and remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and the members of the Associate Board of Directors, based upon their performance during the accounting period.
Full details of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 33 of this Annual report.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Roger Lane-Smith and comprises the other Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations on the appointment of new Directors to the Board and in respect of the Boards balance and structure.
A short-list of potential candidates for any vacant position of Non-executive Director is drawn up by the Chairman of the Committee after discussions with a range of senior retail trade executives and professional advisers.
These candidates are then interviewed by the members of the Committee before the Committee makes the decision as to who to appoint to the position.
Performance evaluation The Non-executive Chairman through his attendance at Board Meetings and Executive Board Meetings, continually reviews the performance of the Board and of all the individual Directors.
Attendance at Board Committee Meetings The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 and the attendance record of the individual Directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations of Directors Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 72 22 R. Lane-Smith 7 1 2 2 T. W. Knight 7 D. Whelan 7 J. D. Greenwood 6 B. J. K. Dunn 7 - A. G. Thomas 7 2 2 2 D. M. M. Beever 7 2 2 2 R. C. Best appointedOctober2005 2 23 JJB Sports plc Corporate governance report continued Executive Board Meetings Since the appointment of Roger Lane-Smith as Non-executive Chairman on 6 July 2005, regular meetings of the Executive Directors, have been held, chaired by Roger Lane-Smith.
Meetings are held at least once every 2 weeks and discuss an agenda comprising current trading results and any major business decisions that affect the Group.
Associate Board of Directors Individual Executive Directors are responsible for the control of operational matters.
In order to effect day to day control of the Group, a second tier Board was created in 1998 known as the Associate Board which currently comprises the Executive Directors and 16 Associate Directors who are senior executives of the Group responsible for all key disciplines within the business.
Whilst the Associate Directors have not been appointed to the office of Companies Act Director, their experience and knowledge ensure a strong link between the Groups strategy which is set by the Board and its implementation across the business.
Internal control and risk management The Company has established an Internal control framework encompassing both its financial and non-financial controls, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the Board and by senior executives, including the Associate Directors.
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups risk management processes and the system of internal control, whilst it is the role of management to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The Board is assisted in discharging its duties by the Audit Committee, which provides a direct link to both internal and external auditors through its regular meetings.
Such a system is designed to effectively manage, rather than eliminate, the risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives of longterm growth of shareholder value via the maximisation of future earnings, and the safeguarding of the Groups assets.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Group has operated a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risk faced by the Group.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place throughout the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 and to the date of approval of these Financial statements.
The process is designed to ensure that all significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives are identified on a timely basis, assessed and managed effectively.
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that all significant business risks will be fully mitigated.
However, by ensuring that the system of internal control reflects the risk environment in which the Group operates, the system should provide adequate assurance that the key risks facing the Group are properly managed.
The Board sets the overall strategy and policy of the Group and has put in place a well-defined organisational structure, with clearly understood lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to help ensure that strategies and policies are effectively implemented and adhered to.
Detailed operational procedures are adopted and followed by the Groups principal functional activities and are designed to incorporate key controls.
These key controls are subject to periodic internal audit review to ensure that they are being operated effectively and that they are suitable to manage any significant business risks faced by the Group.
Reports of internal audit reviews which have been performed are made available to the Board and the Audit Committee.
Staff can raise concerns regarding any impropriety over financial reporting or other matters.
The risk management processes and internal controls are continuously reviewed for effectiveness and assessed by the Board, as part of their Executive responsibilities.
The Board considers all significant aspects of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as the risk management process adopted by the Group, and believes this will provide the ability to promptly identify and appropriately respond to areas of material concern.
The review process is based on the reports made to the Board by the Risk Control Internal Audit Manager and the Associate Director of Retail Audit, as well as other ad hoc reports from Management.
The Board also takes into consideration any matters raised by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed both the effectiveness and level of internal audit resources available within the Group and believes that it is appropriate for the size and nature of the risks facing the Group.
Auditor independence Deloitte & Touche LLP have reported to the Audit Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are independent and that the objectivity of the audit partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee have reviewed this report and agrees with its conclusion and is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The Audit Committee are aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could lead to a potential conflict of interest.
In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the external auditors there are established policies regarding the provision of nonaudit services.
24 JJB Sports plc Corporate governance report continued Relations with shareholders The Group is committed to maintaining an active dialogue with shareholders in order to build a mutual understanding of its objectives.
The Board invites institutional shareholders and analysts to briefings after the announcement of the Companys Interim and Annual results.
There is also regular dialogue with individual institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
During 2005 JJB placed details of its corporate social responsibility programme on the London Stock Exchange Corporate Responsibility Exchange CRE.
With coverage of all major rating systems and codes, the CRE acts as a central repository of information for an audience of many, providing analysts, fund managers and research agencies with an effective tool with which to review and compare JJBs practices and policies in the field of corporate responsibility.
The Board encourages communication with private shareholders through publication of the Interim and Annual results as well as the trading updates at the time its Annual General Meeting and after Christmas.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to gather the views of shareholders and to answer the questions of both private and institutional investors on all issues relevant to the Group.
co. uk, also includes an area dedicated to corporate information, including Annual and Interim reports, press releases, share price histories, Group news and certain Group policy documents.
Health and safety Operating in a safe manner, with due consideration to the health, safety and welfare of all employees and others who may be affected by the Groups work activities, is vital to the success of the business and is something to which the Group is fully committed.
Overall responsibility for health and safety strategy rests with the Board of Directors.
In order to effect day to day control of health and safety, JJB has an Associate Director of Group Health, Safety and Insurance, Lesley Lindley.
Lesley is an associate of the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, the Institute of Risk Management and the Chartered Insurance Institute and reports directly to the Board of Directors on all health and safety issues together with all insurance matters.
All retail store and health club managers have now undergone basic health and safety training covering the most common health and safety issues in the workplace.
A rolling programme is in place to ensure that this training is kept up to date.
As an example of the Groups ongoing commitment to Health and Safety, JJB is currently in the process of developing a range of nine videos which will cover all health and safety topics and it is intended that these videos will be watched by all store employees who will be required to complete a questionnaire to validate their understanding of the contents.
Distribution centre managers have undertaken Managing Safely courses organised by the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, in order to ensure the competence of those managers in contributing to the overall safety of the Distribution centre environment.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
