JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 30 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code that is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
As mentioned in last years review, during 2006, the Board has again carried out a comprehensive review of the way in which it directs and manages the Company, the details of which are discussed more fully below.
The Board The Board, which is responsible to shareholders for leading, developing and protecting the interests of the Company, comprises three Non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors, the details of whom are contained on pages 26 and 27.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company through the separation of positions of the Non-executive Chairman, Lord Fraser and the Chief Executive Officer, Dr Paul Davies.
The Non-executive Directors are of varied backgrounds and experience and the Board considers them to exercise independent and objective judgement.
Matters reserved specifically for the Board are clearly laid down.
The Board: sets and monitors strategy: reviews business plans, trading performance and overhead costs: approves major capital investment projects: examines acquisition opportunities: divestment possibilities and significant financial and operational issues: and reviews and approves the Companys financial statements and control and risk management systems.
In executing these responsibilities the Board relies on the receipt of accurate, timely and clear information, the dissemination of which is the responsibility of the Chairman.
All other authorities are delegated by the Board, supported by appropriate controls, to the Chief Executive Officer on behalf of senior management.
Evaluation of the performance of Directors, the Board and its committees is undertaken as follows: the Executive Directors are evaluated by the Non-executive Directors in informal session: the Chairman is evaluated by the other Non-executive Directors, lead by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors: the Committees are evaluated by the senior Non-executive along with the Chief Executive taking into account the views of the other Executive Directors: the Non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, are evaluated by the Chairman and Chief Executive, taking into account the views of the other Executive Directors: and the Board as a whole, evaluates the performance of the Board.
Viscount Asquith is the senior independent Non-executive Director and, at the Boards request, maintains a special interest in the strategic issues in PPC, supporting the JKX Executive Directors and the PPC senior management as required.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may, if needed, obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the execution of their duties.
In 2006 the Board held five meetings attended by all Directors.
In addition to Board meetings, the Non-executive Directors meet in private session: both as a group and without the Chairman, at least annually.
Compliance Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the Company has maintained procedures and policies that ensured compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the related Financial Services Authority Listing Rule disclosure requirements.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require that companies report on the extent to which they comply with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
The Board believes the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exceptions: A.
3.2 Excluding the Chairman, independent Non-executive Directors do not comprise at least 50% of the Board.
The Board considers that the Chairman and the two other Non-executive Directors are wholly independent.
In March 2007 the Executive Directors have undertaken a comprehensive review of the independence of each of the Non-executive Directors and Chairman.
The review was rigorous and intended to address the matters highlighted at Section A.
3.1 of the Code, which could appear to affect a Directors judgement.
Two specific matters addressed were: Lord Fraser and Viscount Asquith, both having served on the Board for more than nine years: and Viscount Asquith as senior independent Non-executive Director receives fees for providing consulting services to the Company and PPC.
Following the review, the Non-executive Directors do not consider that these matters in any way influence the independent judgement of Lord Fraser or Viscount Asquith.
Consultancy fees paid to John Mapplebeck relate purely to his position as Chairman of the Audit and JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 31 31 Remuneration Committee and in no way influences his independent judgement.
In the opinion of the Board, the appointment of an additional Non-executive Director, although considered again in 2006 is at this time not deemed necessary.
7.2 The terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are set out in their service contracts which are dated 1 January 2002 and include a termination notice of three months by either party.
However, the service contracts are for an indefinite term, not a finite term, subject to re-election on an as required basis.
The Board continues to believe this is appropriate given the company size, non-executive skill set, and evaluation of performance and independence on an ongoing basis with regards Non-executives.
Notwithstanding this conclusion, the Executives have requested the Company to contract Mercer to review the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, with the review to consider term of contract.
2.2 The Remuneration Committee comprises the three Non-executive Directors, which includes the Chairman.
The setting of the Chairmans remuneration is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and not the Remuneration Committee.
The Board believes this is appropriate given the Board size.
The Board is aware that an updated version of the Combined Code was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
This updated Code applies to the Company from 1 January 2007.
The Board is confident the Company will comply with the main changes to the Combined Code and will continue to report any areas of non-compliance.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises the three Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr J R Mapplebeck, who as a former bank executive, possesses both recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee, which has Terms of Reference agreed by the Board and available to shareholders on request, meets at least three times a year to: review the Companys accounting policies: to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and announcements: to review internal control and risk management systems and compliance procedures: and to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
During 2006 the Committee met three times with each Committee member attending all three meetings.
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
The Audit Committee reviews each of the Companys subsidiaries, interests and activities at least once a year: site visits are also undertaken.
The Audit Committee maintains an objective and professional relationship with the Companys auditors and meets in private session with them at least once a year.
From time to time, the auditor is requested to perform non-audit engagements for the Group.
In such instances the continued objectivity and independence of the auditors in their capacity of auditor is an objective of the Group.
To meet this objective the Audit Committee is delegated the role of vetting the appointment of the auditor on specific engagements including considerations of materiality and, where necessary, requiring a competitive tender for such work.
During 2005 the Audit Committee initiated a tender for the audit services of the Group.
The incumbent auditor, Ernst & Young LLP had held the position for in excess of ten years.
Following the tender, the appointment of  LLP as auditor was approved at the 2006 Annual General Meeting and  LLP installed as Auditors of the Group.
The Company promotes a culture of openness and in encouraging staff to, in confidence, raise any concerns of possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements for such concerns to be raised, investigated and if necessary followed up.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Revised Combined Code, specifically Section C that addresses audit committee aspects, and considers that it complies with all the provisions identified apart from the provision C. 3.2 concerning the need to have a dedicated internal audit function which is not established for the reasons listed below.
Areas of non-compliance with the Combined Code, in addition to Section C, are listed above.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year, through its Terms of Reference assists the Board to determine the remuneration arrangements and contracts of the Executive Directors and senior employees.
The Committee is chaired by Mr J R Mapplebeck and comprises the two independent Non-executive Directors Mr Mapplebeck and Viscount Asquith and the Chairman, Lord Fraser, who is included to meet the Companys objective of the Committee comprising three members.
The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings by invitation.
During 2006 the Remuneration Committee met three times with each of the members attending all three meetings.
No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 32 32 The report of the Directors remuneration, which includes details of the Directors interest in options together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages [34 to 40].
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Revised Combined Code, specifically Section B that addresses the level, make up and procedural aspects of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it complies with all the provisions and practices identified with the exception of provision B2.2 concerning the setting of the Chairmans remuneration for the reasons listed above.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are the three Non-executives, Lord Fraser Chairman, Viscount Asquith and Mr J R Mapplebeck.
The Nomination Committee did not meet formally in 2006.
Separately, on an as required basis the Board discuss the skill set and experience of the individual Board members, the need for additional appointments, succession planning and the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The most recent comprehensive review was undertaken in 2005.
The Board revisited that review in 2006 and decided that the composition of the Board and the executive and senior management team remains appropriate to manage the Groups then business interests and activities.
Internal control The Board is responsible for identifying and evaluating the major business risks faced by the Company and for determining and monitoring the appropriate course of action to manage these risks.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements and announcements, reviews the Companys internal control processes and risk management systems and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Board regularly conducts reviews, and has reviewed, for the current year and up to the date of approval of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts, the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and risk management and has concluded that the Companys procedures, policies and systems are appropriate and suitable to enable the Board to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets, and comply with Turnbull Guidance.
The Audit Committee annually reviews, and has reviewed for 2006, the need for a dedicated internal audit function and, as noted above, has recommended to the Board that, due to the scale and geographic distribution of the Companys licences and operating interests, the Board continues to be best served by utilising external specialist assistance on dedicated business and financial risk areas to supplement the Companys own risk analysis.
The process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are described below.
In addition, the Companys independent auditors present reports to the Audit Committee, which include any significant internal control matters that they have identified as a result of their normal audit work.
Business risk An ongoing process is in place to enable the Board to identify the major business, operational, financial and compliance risks faced by the Company and to determine the appropriate course of action to manage and monitor these risks.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and reported to the Board as appropriate.
The Company identifies and distinguishes High Profile Events, i. e. those risks that could have material effect on the Companys financial position or reputation, from other business risks that it assesses and considers to be acceptable for the Company to bear taking into account the industry and the markets in which it operates.
Annually, the Audit Committee reviews each of the Companys subsidiaries and investments from a business, operational and financial risk perspective to ensure that the system of internal control and accountability is embedded in the operations of the Group.
Visits to these subsidiaries and investments are undertaken.
The Audit Committee considers that management are conscious of the need to identify and assess risks in their operations and the effect of changes in the business environment, to respond quickly and appropriately and to report immediately any significant control failings and weaknesses that are identified together with details of corrective action.
Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive has been given responsibility and is accountable for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Executive Directors together with the key senior executives constitute the Executive Committee, which meets as required to discuss operational matters.
Financial reporting The Company maintains an effective and reliable accounting and management information system.
The Board receives a monthly report that monitors actual performance against budget and forecast for oil and gas production: sales and costs: and provides the Board with information amongst other JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 33 33 things on debtors, the cash position, cashflow forecasting and to the financial implications of key sensitivities including changes in world oil price and US$ exchange rates.
Budgetary process Each year the Board approves the annual budget.
Key risk areas are identified.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the year together with information on the key risk areas.
Corporate accounting and procedures manual Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate accounting and procedures manual which sets out, inter alia, the general ethos of the Group, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and control procedures together with accounting policies and procedures.
The manual, which includes a summary of investment techniques and procedures and standards, is reviewed regularly and updated as required.
The application of internal financial control and operational procedures are reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by Head Office staff.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated through the corporate accounting and procedures manual.
Investment appraisal Capital investment is regulated by the budgetary process and authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is complete, and for some projects, during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure.
Major overruns in terms of cost and time are investigated.
The internal financial control situation is reported to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls as it operated during the year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
Communication with shareholders Extensive information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report which are sent to shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders for which the Board, as a whole, has responsibility, and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the Group are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group.
Going concern After making inquiries and taking into consideration the Ukrainian business environment, as detailed in note 28 of the accounts, together with reviewing the Companys budget for 2007 and its medium term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
By order of the Board Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Chairman 20 March 2007
