54 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Code applies for the period covered by this report.
Subject to the exceptions referred to below, the directors consider that the company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2006.
In addition the company has in place processes to comply with the 2006 Combined Code which applies to accounting years starting on, or after, 1 November 2006.
2.1 The Code provides that the roles of Chairman Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
Throughout the period covered by this report Sir Ian Wood continued to hold the combined role of Chairman Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors believe that the combined role was in the best interests of the company and that Sir Ians interests are very closely aligned with those of the Companys other shareholders as a result of his substantial shareholding in the company.
However on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee the Board accepted the resignation of Sir Ian as Chief Executive on 31 December 2006 and appointed Allister Langlands as Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2007.
3.1 The Code requires the Board to identify each non-executive director it considers to be independent.
In the case of Mr Ewan Brown who served as a director until his resignation on 17 May 2006 the Code requires that an explanation be given to shareholders of his continuing independence since he had more than nine years service on the Board.
During the period Mr Brown served as a director the Board believed that he was independent in character and judgement and that there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
Mr Brown was not dependent on the company for his primary source of income and did not participate in any of the companys bonus, option or pension schemes.
The Board considered that Mr Browns experience, outstanding service and long-term perspective on the Groups activities and strategy have been valuable assets contributing to the Boards deliberations.
Board of Directors Composition and responsibilities At 31 December 2006 the Board comprised thirteen directors, made up of seven executive and six non-executive directors.
Dr. Christopher Masters is the senior independent director.
On 19 May 2006, Mr Ian Marchant, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
He will stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Ewan Brown resigned as a director on 17 May 2006.
The Nominations Committee has appointed Executive Search Consultants to identify an additional independent non-executive director whose appointment will ensure a balance of executive and non-executive directors on the Board.
It is anticipated that a resolution to elect a new director will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances, which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies of the directors appear on page 50.
All directors must submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, for re-election at least once every three years.
Discharge of its responsibilities The Board meets four times a year for two days on each occasion and additionally as required.
It has a schedule of matters speci cally reserved for its consideration and approval.
It is responsible for the approval of Group strategy, the annual budget, signi cant acquisitions, major nancing decisions and the overall system of internal control.
Executive management, are responsible for the implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects of managing the business.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 55 Left to right: Claire Ingram Marlon Chanakira Jan Rogers The Board receives appropriate and timely information from management to enable it to perform its duties, including monthly reports on financial and operating issues.
The Board is also briefed on investor perceptions of the company.
The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and brie ngs arranged on issues related to corporate governance.
Newly appointed directors undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the companys business.
This includes brie ng sessions during regular board meetings, visits to Group operating sites and discussion of relevant business issues.
Directors are advised on their appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a listed company.
The non-executive directors are available to shareholders attending the companys AGM.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional advice at the companys expense and all directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In 2006 the Board satisfactorily completed a formal evaluation of its own performance and of its committees, individual directors and of the Chairman.
This involved Directors updating their responses to the detailed questionnaires which were completed in the 2005 evaluation.
In 2007 another full evaluation will take place using detailed questionnaires completed by all directors in relation to key areas of Board accountability.
Committees of the Board The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to committees - the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A summary of the work of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee is set out below whilst the report of the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 59.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website.
Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees is summarised below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2006 4 3 4 4 Executive directors Sir Ian Wood 4 4 A G Langlands 4 A G Semple 4 W R Brooks 4 T M Noble 4 L J Thomas 4 M H Papworth 4 Non-executive directors E Brown 2 1 1 Dr C Masters 4 3 4 R Monti 3 3 3 J C Morgan 4 3 4 4 D J Ogren 4 4 4 N H Smith 4 2 4 I D Marchant 1 1 1 56 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Committee composition and responsibilities The Audit Committee comprises three independent nonexecutive directors, Dr. Christopher Masters Chairman, Mr John Morgan and Mr Ian Marchant: and, of these, Mr Ian Marchant has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, and has written Terms of Reference setting out its roles and responsibilities.
These include: to monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and its interim and preliminary announcements to review the companys internal financial controls to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function to review the terms of engagement and independence of the external auditors to assess the audit process and the effectiveness of the external auditors, and to recommend their appointment, reappointment or removal to the Board to monitor the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or other improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Discharge of its responsibilities Attendance at Committee meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
However the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors will generally be invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Committee at all times and meet the Committee without management present on at least an annual basis.
The Committee met three times in 2006.
At its meetings the Committee reviewed the Annual Report for 2005, the companys 2006 interim announcement, and the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
These reviews included: discussion with management and the external auditors of signi cant issues regarding financial risks, accounting principles, practices and judgements consideration with the external auditors of the signi cant matters arising from the annual external audit review of reports prepared by the internal audit function together with managements response and the actions they have taken focus on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental areas.
The external auditors provide an annual con rmation of their independence from the Group and details of any relationships between them and the Group that could impact their objectivity and independence.
This con rmation is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Non-audit services provided by external auditors The Committee approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy on the engagement of external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy provides guidance to the Committee in safeguarding the external auditors independence and objectivity in relation to the provision of non-audit services.
The non-audit services provided in 2006 consisted mainly of tax services, the cost of which is reported in note 3 to the financial statements.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 57 Left to right: Errol Eccles Ellen Toogood Fernando Bastidas Nominations Committee Committee composition and responsibilities The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Ian Wood Chairman and all of the independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year to review the Board structure, size and composition, make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to ll Board vacancies and to ensure that succession plans are in place.
Discharge of its responsibilities The Committee met four times during 2006.
The appointment of Mr Ian Marchant on 19 May 2006 is described on page 54.
Relations with Shareholders The Group values its dialogue with its institutional shareholders and is committed to maintaining a high standard in its investor relations programme.
Throughout the year there were two major investor roadshows and a number of other meetings.
The Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to answer shareholders questions.
In addition the senior independent director is available to meet with major shareholders.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull working party report: Internal Control - Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Committee Guidance referred to above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The procedures which the directors have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control on an annual basis include the following: Control environment The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including fide ned lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued Group Policies, including an Ethics Policy, to fide ne the standards of business conduct.
Advice lines have been introduced to enable staff to raise ethical concerns in con dence.
These numbers have been made known via internal communications with employees.
Risk management Each Business Unit management team is responsible for the process of identi cation and evaluation of signi cant operational, financial and compliance risks, and for the design and operation of effective internal controls.
The Board receives regular updates from management on the key risks and the related controls.
The Board formally reviews the Groups exposure to key business risks twice a year.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly reports and comprehensive quarterly reports.
The comprehensive quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets and revised forecasts, which are prepared twice a year.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports.
In addition, each Business Unit performed a quarterly update involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors, including the Chairman and Chief Executive.
58 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance continued Monitoring of the internal control systems The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
Going Concern Having made appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group and of the pro t or loss of the group and a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors con rm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is fide ned as information needed by the companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken in his duty as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
