Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The board composition allows for changes to be made The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of with minimum disruption.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of its the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for performance and the performance of its committees and the financial reporting, internal control and audit.
A questionnaire, prepared by the Chairman with describes how the principles of the Code have been applied.
The the assistance of the Company Secretary, was completed by all group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout directors other than the Chairman.
The questionnaire focused on the the year except that the board has taken the view that it is not operation of the board, its committees and individual directors necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the contributions.
A summary of the responses was prepared by the Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting.
In addition, shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such during the year, led by the Senior Independent Director, the nondiscussions are requested by shareholders.
The methods by which executive directors met without the Chairman present to consider major shareholders views are communicated to the board as a evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
whole are discussed under Relations with Shareholders below.
Committees of the Board Directors and the Board The Chief Executives Committee is responsible for the The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and groups system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives and on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate.
It is also the stewardship of the companys resources and is ultimately responsible for the executive management of the groups business.
responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The board The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to monthly.
It comprises the executive directors and three senior review the groups long term strategy.
The board delegates specific executives of the company.
responsibilities to board committees, as described below.
The board The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Company responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
The Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to individual Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
directors, in respect of board procedures.
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive.
The board currently group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Sir John A report from the Committee on its activities is given on page 44.
Banham was appointed to the board as Chairman Designate on The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board 1st January 2006 and became Chairman on 1st April 2006 following responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on the retirement of Mr H M P Miles.
Sir John Banhams other the appointment of new directors.
The Committee is chaired by the commitments are disclosed on page 38.
The roles of Chairman and Chairman and also comprises all the independent non-executive Chief Executive are separate.
The Chairman leads the board, directors.
A report from the Committee on its activities is given on ensuring that each director, particularly the non-executive directors, page 45. is able to make an effective contribution.
He monitors, with The Management Development and Remuneration Committee assistance from the Company Secretary, the information distributed is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on behalf of the to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
board the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee is The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day management chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises all the independent nonresponsibility for the companys operations, implementing group executive directors.
The group Chairman, Chief Executive and the strategies and policies agreed by the board.
Director of Human Resources attend by invitation except when their Mr C D Mackay is the Senior Independent Director.
The role of nonown performance and remuneration are discussed.
Further details executive directors is to enhance independence and objectivity of are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51. the boards deliberations and decisions.
All non-executive directors are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The executive directors have specific responsibilities, which are detailed on pages 38 and 39, and have direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 41 Corporate Governance Committees of the Board continued Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2005 06 was as follows: Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended H M P Miles 7 6 2 2 1 2 Sir John Banham 21 1 2 2 2 N A P Carson 7 7 4 2 4 M BDearden 7 7442244 P NHawker 7 7 C DMackay 77442244 D WMorgan 7 7 L CPentz 7 7 2 J N Sheldrick 7 7 4 I C Strachan 7 6 4 4 2 2 4 3 A MThomson 77442244 R J WWalvis 77442244 Notes 1 Appointed January 2006.
2 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
practical and efficient way both for the Chairman to keep in touch Directors Remuneration with major shareholder opinion on governance and strategy and for The Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51 includes details of the Senior Independent Director to learn the views of major remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
The Senior Independent Director is available Relations with Shareholders to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
The board considers effective communication with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to Accountability, Audit and Control be extremely important.
The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its of the directors report and the accounts is set out on page 52. half year and full year results are announced and an interim report In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a and a full report are issued to shareholders.
These reports are balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial posted on Johnson Mattheys website www.
At the position and prospects.
same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other The groups organisational structure is focused on its four divisions.
Copies of major presentations are also posted These are all separately managed but report to the board through a on the companys website.
The executive management team receives monthly summaries of financial results from each division through a The companys Annual General Meeting AGM takes place in standardised reporting process.
London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the annual report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process The directors are available for questions, formally during the AGM including forecasts for the next two years.
Variances from budget and informally afterwards.
Details of the 2006 AGM are set out in are closely monitored.
the notice of the meeting enclosed with this annual report.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that systems are designed to meet the groups needs and address the their views are communicated to the board as a whole.
The risks to which it is exposed.
Such a system can provide reasonable Chairman also discusses governance and strategy directly with but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board believes that appropriate steps have There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the managing the significant risks faced by the company which has board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an been in place during the year under review and up to the date of understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The board regularly about the company.
Sir John Banham, prior to taking up his reviews this process.
appointment as Chairman, met with each of the companys top The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the three shareholders individually to discuss governance and other board and updated on an annual basis.
At the business level the matters.
The board is provided with brokers reports and feedback processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
The canvassing of the control environment.
Key risks and internal controls are the of major shareholders views for the board in a detailed investor subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executives Committee.
survey is conducted every two years by external consultants.
The board has taken the view that these methods, taken together, are a - Johnson Matthey 42 Corporate Governance Accountability, Audit and Control continued Corporate Social Responsibility The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical authority limits of the various board and executive committees and and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
It is business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals the Chief Executives Committee.
issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or A review of the groups policies and targets for corporate social departments.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with responsibility CSR is set out on pages 27 to 37.
A full version of which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical the report is available on the companys website.
controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
The identification, assessment and management of environment, The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the groups health and safety EHS risks are the responsibility of the CSR systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Chief of the financial information reported to the board.
The Audit Executives Committee, comprising the division directors, the Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and other appropriate receives the reports produced by the internal audit function on a professional staff.
Performance is monitored using monthly statistics regular basis.
Actions are agreed with management in response to and detailed site audit reports.
EHS performance is reviewed on a the internal audit reports produced.
regular basis by the Chief Executives Committee and an annual In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the review is undertaken by the board.
maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance Risks from employment and people issues are identified and with group policies.
These assessments are summarised by the assessed by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to the internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit board.
Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
The ended 31st March 2006 and the period up to 30th May 2006 has Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included operational guidelines to reinforce these.
with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social system of internal control.
responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the internal audit function.
