Audit Committee Report Role of the Audit Committee At its meeting on 21st November 2005 the Audit Committee reviewed the companys interim results, the half year report and the The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose external auditors review.
responsibilities include: At its meeting on 24th January 2006 the Audit Committee reviewed Reviewing the interim and full year accounts and results managements and internal audits reports on the effectiveness of announcements of the company and any other formal the companys systems for internal financial control and risk announcements relating to the companys financial performance management.
The Committee reviewed the groups credit control and recommending them to the board for approval.
procedures and risks, controls over precious metals, IT controls and Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control and corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys Independence of External Auditors internal audit function and considering regular reports from Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors Considering the appointment of the external auditors: overseeing objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in the process for their selection: and making recommendations to respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: the board in relation to their appointment to be put to Audit related services the external auditors are invited to shareholders for approval at a general meeting.
provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of are best placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, various other audit, agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and on the companys accounts, reports to shareholders and disposals.
systems of internal financial control and risk management.
Tax consulting in cases where they are best suited, we use the The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on external auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is put the companys website at www.
General consulting in recognition of public concern over the Composition of the Audit Committee effect of consulting services on auditors independence, our policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive general consulting work.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Their remuneration is set out on page 48.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson.
The Internal Audit group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of Internal Audit and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Audit the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets the year and the departments resource requirements and also separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2007. auditors without management being present.
The Company Secretary, Mr S Farrant, is secretary to the Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Committee: Main Activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended 31st March 2006.
At its meeting on 25th May 2005 the Committee reviewed the companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial year ended 31st March 2005, and the draft report and Alan Thomson accounts for that year.
The Committee received reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and their comments on risk management and control matters.
The companys restatement of the results for the year under International Financial Reporting Standards was reviewed and discussed with the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed the groups Corporate Social Responsibility Report which is available on the companys website at www.
The Audit Committee met on 26th July 2005 to receive reports on internal controls from both the internal and external auditors.
Changes to the Group Control Manual were ratified.
The external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for the forthcoming year.
The Committee also reviewed the performance of both the internal and external auditors.
