Nomination Committee Report Role of the Nomination Committee Main Activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose In the year under review, Sir John Banham joined the board as purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, Chairman Designate with effect from 1st January 2006 and was dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
The full terms of appointed as Chairman of the board with effect from 1st April 2006 reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the following Mr H M P Miles retirement.
There were no other board companys website at www.
During the financial year ended 31st March 2006, the Nomination Composition of the Nomination Committee Committee conducted a process to identify a successor to Mr Miles through a sub-committee comprising Mr M B Dearden and Mr A M The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent Thomson and with the assistance of external search consultants.
non-executive directors together with the group Chairman.
The Open advertising was not used.
The Nomination Committee met quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of twice during the year in connection with the selection process.
whom must be an independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the independent directors and the Chairman are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Their remuneration is set out on page 48.
On behalf of the Committee: The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee, although the Chairman may not chair the Committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the company.
A non-executive director may not chair the Committee when it is dealing with a matter relating to that non-executive director.
Sir John Banham Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee meetings.
However, other individuals, such as the Chief Executive, the Director of Human Resources and external advisers, may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Director of Human Resources, Mr I F Stephenson, acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that it requires from any officer or employee of the company or its subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Committee is authorised by the board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional advice, at the companys expense as it considers necessary, including requests for information from or commissioning investigations by external advisers.
