Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the appropriate at the other Board meetings performance of the Chairman.
The Board principles of Corporate Governance held during the year.
has also met during the year without the contained in the Combined Code on Executive Directors and Company Corporate Governance which is appended In addition to the normal agenda at Board Secretary being present.
to the Listing Rules of the Financial meetings, which is described below, the Services Authority and for which the directors consider one operational or The meetings of the Remuneration, Audit Board is accountable to shareholders.
special topic at each meeting.
During the and Nomination Committees were last twelve months this has included an attended by all members either personally Statement of Compliance with update on the 2006 Companies Act and or by telephone.
The Code of Best Practice Corporate Governance changes, The Company has complied throughout circulation and audience reach of paid for Board Balance the year with the Provisions of The Code newspapers, future printing strategy, Of the Companys current twelve set out in Section 1 of the Combined pension scheme developments, national Directors, three are Executive and the Code on Corporate Governance issued by sales, digital publishing and human remainder Non-Executive, of whom six are the Financial Reporting Council in July resources trends and issues.
regarded as independent, excluding the 2003 and the Revised Turnbull guidance Chairman.
In Board Meeting Agenda addition the Company already has in place The Board receives a formal schedule of Other than the Chairman, those who are processes that comply with the provisions matters specifically reserved to it for regarded as non-independent are Mr F P of the 2006 Combined Code which decision, such as future strategy, M Johnston and Mr H C M Johnston, who applies to all accounting years starting on acquisitions and disposals, dividend have significant shareholdings in the or after 1 November 2006. policy, approval of the Annual Report and Company and have previously served the Accounts, capital expenditure, trading and Group in an executive role.
It is the view of Statement of Application of The capital budgets and Group borrowing the Board that such circumstances do not Principles of Good Governance facilities.
The Board considers monthly lessen the value of the contributions made The Company has applied The Principles reports from the Chief Executive Officer, by these two Non-Executive Directors.
Mr of Good Governance set out in Section 1 Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating H C M Johnston has decided to stand of the 2003 Combined Code as reported Officer and Minutes of the Board and down from the Board at the 2007 Annual above.
Further explanation of how the Committees are circulated to all Board General Meeting.
Principles have been applied is set out members.
It has also made the Company below and, in connection with directors Secretary responsible to the Board for the The Board determines that Lord Gordon of remuneration, in the Directors timeliness and quality of information.
Strathblane is independent despite serving Remuneration Report.
on the Board for more than nine years.
He Board Responsibilities is highly respected for his wealth of media Board Effectiveness The Board acknowledges the division of experience and his totally impartial and The Board considers that it has shown its responsibilities for running the Board and professional approach to his role.
He will commitment to leading and controlling the managing the Companys business with retire from the Board at the 2007 Annual Company by meeting nine times in the Mr R G Parry as Non-Executive Chairman, General Meeting when he will be 70. year, but can meet when necessary for Mr P E B Cawdron as Senior Independent any matters which may arise.
The Director and Mr T J Bowdler as the Mr R G Parry has served for more than Remuneration Committee met on six Companys Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is occasions and the Audit and Nomination unanimously of the view that he should Committees three times.
Mr P E B Cawdron is available to address continue to serve as a Director and any concerns that shareholders may have, Chairman.
The recent Board evaluation The Board sets the strategic aims and which have not been resolved through the process concluded that Mr R G Parry has objectives of the Group, ensuring that the normal communication channels of the all the appropriate skills and credentials to Group has sufficient financial and human Chairman or Executive Directors.
continue to lead the Company as resources to meet its objectives.
also sets the Groups values and standards The Chairman of the Remuneration, Audit and ensures that its obligations to its and Nomination Committees are Mr S J Mr P E B Cawdron will have served nine shareholders and others are understood Waugh, Mr P E B Cawdron, who is a years on the Board in August 2007.
Management are responsible for chartered accountant, and Mr R G Parry unanimous view of the Board is that his the application of the aims and objectives respectively.
experience and professional knowledge is on a day-to-day basis, as well as invaluable to the Board, and that he monitoring the financial achievements of Board Attendance continues to be independent.
The Board reviews the During 2006, every director attended all confirmed during the 2006 Board performance of management in meeting meetings with the exception that Mr H C evaluation process.
the agreed objectives and goals, plans the M Johnston was unable to attend the succession of key executives, and January and August meetings, Mr P E B All Directors who have served for more determines appropriate remuneration levels.
Cawdron and Mrs M A King the April than nine years will retire at the Annual meeting and Mr F P M Johnston the June General Meeting and, other than Lord At least one Board meeting each year is meeting.
In advance of the formal Board Gordon and Mr H C M Johnston, will be wholly devoted to strategy and to the meeting in October, led by the Senior seeking re-election.
consideration of a plan for the long term Independent Director, the Non-Executive growth and development of the Group.
Directors met and, as part of the agenda At least half the Board, excluding the This is reviewed and discussed as of that meeting, appraised the Chairman, comprises Non-Executive Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Corporate Governance - continued Directors determined by the Board to be relating to their responsibilities as directors continues to be effective and that they independent.
and as members of the various have demonstrated a clear commitment to Committees of the Board.
Nomination Committee Secretary is available to all directors and The Nomination Committee is chaired by he is responsible for ensuring that all Financial Reporting Mr R G Parry, and also comprises Mr P E Board procedures are complied with.
The Board has shown its commitment to B Cawdron, Lord Gordon of Strathblane presenting appropriate information about and Mr L F Hinton.
Reporting to the Board Performance Evaluation the Groups financial position by Board, its duty is to seek suitably skilled During the last year, the Board has complying with best practice and all and experienced candidates, with conducted a rigorous evaluation of its own standards issued by the International and sufficient time to devote to the role, as performance.
This involved the completion UK Accounting Standards Boards relating Non-Executive Directors and to oversee all of an assessment questionnaire by all to the disclosures which are included in Board appointments.
Once the role of a directors covering the performance of the this Annual Report.
vacancy has been determined, the Board, individual directors, the Company Committee appoints external recruitment Secretary and Board Committees.
Other Statement of Directors Responsibilities consultants to assist with the search.
topics included the conduct of meetings, The Directors are responsible for preparing the provision of information, training and the Annual Report and the financial The terms of reference of the Committee the overall effectiveness of the Board.
The Directors are required to are displayed on the Companys website There was a further emphasis this year on prepare financial statements for the Group in the Investor Relations section.
a scoring system for assessing individual, in accordance with International Financial Committee and Board performance Reporting Standards as adopted by the The Board evaluation process at the end together with a focus on the future European Union IFRS.
Company law of 2005 confirmed the unanimous view of strategy of the Group especially in the requires the Directors to prepare such the Board that Lord Gordon should be area of digital publishing.
The completed financial statements in accordance with replaced on his retirement from the Board questionnaires were submitted to the IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article in 2007.
The Committee took account of Company Secretary who prepared a 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the need to plan for a successor to chair summary of the conclusions which was the Audit Committee when Mr P E B presented to the Board meeting in January International Accounting Standard 1 Cawdron stands down from that role.
Separately, the Secretary produced requires that financial statements present Committee prepared a detailed brief and a detailed report summarising any fairly, for each financial year, the Groups appointed external recruitment individual recommendations for the financial position, financial performance consultants to assist in the process.
This requires the faithful Several candidates were interviewed but followed up by meetings as appropriate representation of the effects of the unanimously preferred candidate was with individual directors.
transactions, other events and conditions Mr I S M Russell, a qualified accountant, in accordance with the definitions and and he was appointed to the Board and Training is undertaken as required during recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, the Audit Committee on 9 January 2007. the year.
The feedback from the recent income and expenses set out in the questionnaires will assist in the training International Accounting Standards It has been decided that Mr H C M plan for the forthcoming year.
The Board Boards Framework for the Preparation Johnston will not be replaced when he arranges for its Non-Executive Directors to and Presentation of Financial Statements.
steps down as a Director at the visit the Groups principal locations at In virtually all circumstances, a fair forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
certain intervals to discuss the operations presentation will be achieved by with local management.
In addition, at compliance with all applicable The Committee has also commenced a least one Board meeting is held at one of International Financial Reporting consideration of succession to the Chief the Groups centres where the Board Standards.
Directors are also required to: Executive Officer who is due to retire in receives a presentation from the local 2009.
In addition, the Committee has Managing Director and a tour of the Properly select and apply accounting started to discuss the appropriate Board business.
Individual directors attend a policies: balance when Mr F P M Johnston steps range of seminars presented by down from the Board.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that Information and Professional Board Re-election provides relevant, reliable, comparable Development It is the policy of the Board that all and understandable information: and The Chairman has arranged a detailed directors are subject to election at the first induction process for Mr I M Russell, Annual General Meeting after their Provide additional disclosures when including meetings and discussions with appointment and thereafter to re-election compliance with the specific advisers and senior management where every three years.
All directors who have requirements in IFRS is insufficient to appropriate, together with the preparation served nine years or more retire annually.
enable users to understand the impact of a full induction pack and external of particular transactions, other events courses.
A similar process will be The Chairman has, following the formal and conditions on the entitys financial undertaken when any new Non-Executive evaluation process described above, position and financial performance.
considered the performance of the directors subject to re-election at the 2007 The Directors are responsible for keeping All Board members have access to Annual General Meeting and is satisfied proper accounting records which disclose independent advice on any matters that the individuals performance with reasonable accuracy at any time the 42 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 financial position of the Group, for assessment considers all significant The IFCC is chaired by the Company safeguarding the assets, for taking aspects of internal control arising during Secretary who is responsible for the reasonable steps for the prevention and the period covered by the report including conduct of control reviews in selected detection of fraud and other irregularities work of the Internal Financial Control locations by members of the Committee and for the preparation of a Directors Committee.
The Audit Committee assists who are independent of the location Report and Directors Remuneration the Board in discharging its review visited.
The IFCC is also responsible for Report which comply with the responsibilities.
the review of detailed financial control requirements of the Companies Act 1985. checklists submitted by each operation During the course of its review of the to head office monthly.
This work is The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control, the Board has strongly supported by the Groups maintenance and integrity of the not identified nor been advised of any financial accounting centre which Companys website.
Legislation in the failings or weaknesses which it has ensures a consistent and compliant United Kingdom governing the preparation determined to be significant.
Therefore a approach to the processing of and dissemination of financial statements confirmation in respect of necessary transactions and ensures a uniform may differ from legislation in other actions has not been considered control process across the Groups jurisdictions.
The key elements of the operations.
ongoing continuous process during the Going Concern period under review have been: Review by the Audit Committee of the After making enquiries, the Directors have conclusions of the Groups external formed a judgement, at the time of Formal Board reporting on a monthly auditors in their annual audit and review approving the financial statements, that basis by the Chief Executive Officer, of the half-year results.
These reviews there is a reasonable expectation that the Chief Financial Officer and Chief include discussion of any control Group has adequate resources to Operating Officer on the Groups weaknesses or issues identified by continue in operational existence for the performance and on any emerging risks the auditors.
For this reason, they and issues.
The monthly management continue to adopt the going concern basis accounts break down the results of the The conduct of risk assessment in preparing the financial statements.
Groups operations by individual involving all senior managers of the business performance and all significant Groups businesses in addition to the Internal Control variations against budget and the Executive Directors.
A risk matrix is The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the previous year are fully examined.
The reviewed on a regular basis both in the Combined Code by establishing a day-to-day responsibility for managing local operations and by the Group continuous process for identifying, each of the Groups operations rests Management Board.
One risk is evaluating and managing the significant with local experienced Senior discussed at every monthly executive risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly Executives and the Group has a clear meeting both locally and at Group level.
reviews the process, which has been in organisational structure which includes The results of these assessments are place from the start of the year to the date appropriate delegation of authority.
The summarised and reported to the entire of approval of this report and which is in Executive Directors ensure that regular Board.
These risk assessment sessions accordance with revised guidance on contact is maintained with all Senior will continue at each operation and will internal control published in October 2005 Executives.
The Group Management evaluate and address the risks the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is Board, comprising the Executive identified.
During 2006, the Group responsible for the Groups system of Directors, the Company Secretary, the Management Board has focused internal control and for reviewing its Director of Human Resources, the particularly on job advertising trends: effectiveness.
Such a system is designed Director of Digital Publishing and the customer market intelligence: disaster to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Business Development Manager, meets recovery plans in fewer, larger prepress failure to achieve business objectives, and every month to review financial and and press centres: management can only provide reasonable and not operational issues as well as the risks succession: digital strategy: absolute assurance against material facing the Group.
management stretch: changes to misstatement or loss.
employment legislation and corporate Formal Board approval for capital strategy.
In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the expenditure over 250k and for other Combined Code, the Board regularly investment decisions.
Approval was Steps are being taken to embed best reviews the effectiveness of the Groups granted for all acquisitions and practice into all the operations of the system of internal control.
The Boards disposals submitted after due enquiry.
business and to deal with areas of monitoring covers all controls, including improvement which come to financial, operational and compliance Formal Board approval of the annual managements and the Boards attention.
It is based budget for the forthcoming financial principally on reviewing reports from year.
This includes detailed and In addition, the Group Management Board management to consider whether comprehensive budgets covering each has the ongoing responsibility to set significant risks are identified, evaluated, operating business.
policies, procedures and standards as managed and controlled and whether any detailed in the Groups policy guidelines.
significant weaknesses are promptly Review by the Audit Committee on a These have been reviewed and revised remedied and indicate a need for more six-monthly basis of the work performed during the year and a tailored version extensive monitoring.
The Board has also by the Internal Financial Control released for all the businesses in the performed a specific assessment for the Committee IFCC based on a Republic of Ireland.
The guidelines include purpose of this annual report.
This programme of work agreed in advance.
policies on: Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 Corporate Governance - continued Finance ongoing review of internal controls by the The Committee oversaw the appointment Cash treasury controls main Board.
of Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2002 and have Trading a primary responsibility for the Customer service In addition, these two meetings consider a appointment, re-appointment and removal Commercial and competition report on the work of the IFCC.
Technology described in the Internal Control section Property management and, given the detail and comfort included The Audit Partner at Deloitte rotates at the Human resources including pension in the report, the Committee regards this conclusion of the 2006 audit.
administration, disability and health approach as the most effective way to and safety review the financial controls in the Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Environmental issues and energy business rather than establish an internal The Board encourages and seeks to build management audit function.
a mutual understanding of objectives Legal and regulatory compliance between the Company and its institutional Business continuity.
The Audit Committee meetings to shareholders.
As part of this process, the consider the financial results of the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial The Directors at the Board meeting on are attended by the Chief Financial Officer Officer make twice yearly presentations to 26 January 2007 reviewed the need for an and the Company Secretary, who acts as institutional shareholders and meet with internal audit department and concluded Secretary to the Committee, with minutes shareholders to discuss any issues of that they did not believe it necessary for being circulated to all Board members.
concern and to obtain feedback.
In the Group to maintain such a department The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and addition, they communicate regularly given the very effective role played by the Chief Operating Officer are also invited to throughout the year with those IFCC and the current independent review attend if required to do so by the shareholders who request a meeting.
and monitoring procedures in operation.
Towards the close of both meetings, all Executives leave in order for The Chairman and the Senior Independent Audit Committee the Committee to have a private Director personally contact the leading The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr P E discussion with the auditors.
The shareholders in the Company on a yearly B Cawdron, a chartered accountant, and Chairman also has a private meeting with basis to address any concerns and throughout 2006 has included Mrs M A the audit partner during the course of the discuss any issues.
During 2006 this King and Mr S J Waugh.
Mr I M Russell year to discuss any relevant issues.
contact instigated a dialogue with a joined the Committee on 9 January 2007. number of shareholders.
The Board All are independent Non-Executive At the meeting to review the Annual receives a report on any discussion with Directors.
Report and Accounts, the Committee shareholders and the written feedback formally considers the non-audit services that follows the half yearly presentations is The Committee has written terms of provided by the Groups external auditors circulated to the Board.
Brokers reports reference that outline its authority and and the effectiveness of the audit process.
and analysts briefings are included in the duties.
This is displayed on the These are fully explored and discussed Board papers sent to the directors every Companys website in the Investor and the Committee is satisfied that the month.
The terms include a objectivity and independence of the review of the arrangements by which staff external audit is safeguarded.
Any material The Board receives a quarterly update on may, in confidence, raise concerns about fees are discussed with the Audit the shareholder register with a summary of possible improprieties in matters of Committee before being committed.
the main movements in shareholdings financial reporting or other areas.
During 2006 the Committee agreed the since the previous report.
appointment of a professional firm other The Committee meets once during the than the external auditors to be Members of the Board have met with year with the Companys external auditors responsible for the taxation compliance institutional shareholders during the year to discuss and agree the audit programme and advisory work in the Republic of to consider Corporate Governance for the forthcoming year, together with any Ireland.
All the Non-Executive Directors proposed non-audit work.
The planning are prepared to meet with shareholders to meeting in 2006 considered in detail the As explained on page 42, the Board understand more fully their views.
Revised Turnbull provisions and the undertook an evaluation of its requirement of section 234ZA of the performance during the year.
This included Annual General Meeting Companies Act 1985. a review of the effectiveness of this The Board seeks to encourage Committee considering its composition, shareholders to attend its Annual General The two other meetings follow the interim chairmanship, whether it fulfilled its role as Meeting.
Directors are present to answer financial review and the year-end audit.
outlined in the terms of reference, its any questions from shareholders.
It is the They cover a comprehensive report from reporting and overall performance.
This policy of the Board that all Directors the external auditors on their work and evaluation process was undertaken by the should attend the Annual General their conclusions.
The Committee focuses Committee itself as well as by all Meeting.
It uses the Annual General in particular on the areas of financial members of the Board.
The results of this Meeting to communicate with private judgement by the Group.
It also reviews process were positive and confirmed the investors and encourages their the summary of the Groups key business effectiveness of the Committee.
risks and discusses any revisions.
The Committee is actively involved in the 44 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
