60 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 cO RPO R AT E GOv ERn A n cE R EP O R T intrODuctiOn Financial Controller and Company Secretary, will succeed Oleg Kazakhmys PLC listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange Novachuk as Chief Financial Officer on 15 March 2007, although in October 2005.
Its listing in London has enabled Kazakhmys to he will not initially be appointed to the Board.
Robert Welch will access the leading centre for financial and intellectual capital succeed Matthew Hird as Company Secretary on the same date.
for mining in the world, enabling the Company to consolidate its position as a major international mining company and further It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should be develop its presence in Kazakhstan and its neighbouring independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Vladimir Ni, countries.
the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Following his The Board is committed to high standards of corporate appointment as chairman of Kazakhmys LLC, the Companys governance in its management of the affairs of the Group main operating company in Kazakhstan, with effect from 1 and in its accountability to shareholders.
January 2006, Vladimir Ni is not considered by the Board to be independent.
cOmBineD cODe cOmpliance Since 1 January 2006, the Board has implemented a number The independent non-executive Directors are: of changes to the way in which the Company is directed and controlled including: the appointment of Oleg Novachuk as Philip Aiken Chief Executive: the appointment of Philip Aiken and Simon A director of Robert Walters plc and a senior advisor to Heale as non-executive Directors: David Munro, formerly a nonMacquarie Bank Limited.
Formerly President, UK of BHP Billiton executive Director, joining the executive management team as plc, having previously been Group President of BHP Billitons Strategy Director: the appointment of James Rutland as the Energy business, President, BHP Billiton Petroleum, Senior Independent Director: and the completion of a Board an executive director of BTR plc and held a number of senior evaluation process.
At the date of this report the Company positions in BOC Group plc.
complies with section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code, except the Chairman was Simon Heale not independent at the time of his appointment.
A non-executive director of both The Morgan Crucible Company plc and Panmure Gordon & Co plc, and Chief Executive of China The rest of this section of the Annual Report explains in more Now.
Formerly Chief Executive of The London Metal Exchange, detail how the Company applied the principles, and the nature Chief Operating Officer of Jardine Fleming Ltd and Deputy of its compliance and any areas of non-compliance with the Managing Director of Cathay Pacific Airways.
provisions, of the Combined Code during the financial year.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG The Companys policies on corporate direction and control Serves on the boards of SABMiller plc, Fluor Corporation and ensure that the Company applies all of the principles of good Compagnie Financire Richemont.
Formerly a non-executive governance contained in the Combined Code in the director of British Airways plc, BHP Billiton plc and Liberty organisational structure it has adopted to conduct its business, International plc.
Vice-Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove, who the means by which Directors are remunerated, the manner of are brokers and financial advisers to the Company: he has no contact with shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in its involvement in the provision of broking or financial services financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
BOarD structure James Rutland Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Formerly Finance Director of Energy Africa Limited, having Board, which currently consists of eight Directors, six of whom previously held a number of positions in Investors in Industry plc, served throughout the financial year, with Philip Aiken and and with James Capels corporate finance group and Hongkong Simon Heale having been appointed on 1 November 2006 and Banks resource lending group in London.
David Munro was a non-executive Director until 1 October 2006, whereupon he was appointed The Chairman was not independent at the time of his an executive Director.
Including the Chairman, there are three appointment by virtue of his significant shareholding in the executive Directors and five non-executive Directors: this Company.
Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995 and has made balance ensures that no individual or small group of Directors a major contribution to its development into an international dominates the decision making process and the interests of FTSE 100 company.
He has been responsible for leading the the minority shareholders are protected.
Group to strong profitability and cash flows.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement Yong Keu Cha stood down as a Director and Chief Executive on in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success 31 December 2006.
On 15 March 2007, he will be succeeded by of the Group.
Oleg Novachuk, currently Finance Director.
Matthew Hird, Group The non-executive Directors have held informal discussions with the Chairman from time-to-time without executive Directors being present.
S TAT U TO R Y R E P O R T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there the Chairman and the new Chief Executive.
The roles of the are procedures to provide them with appropriate and timely Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly information, including information between meetings about defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers developments in the Groups business and financial of decision.
performance, so that they can maintain full and effective control of strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of issues.
Directors also have access to the advice and services the Group, overseeing the responsibilities of management, of the Company Secretary, the appointment and removal of leadership of the Board and ensuring effective communication whom is a matter for the whole Board, and, in appropriate with shareholders.
As part of the evaluation of the performance circumstances, may obtain independent professional advice of the Chairman, the Board remains satisfied that the Chairman at the Companys expense.
continues to be able to fulfil all of the commitments required of his role.
Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged.
For example, over the last 12 months, the Following his appointment as Chief Executive on 15 March 2007, Board has received specific briefings by internal management Oleg Novachuk will be responsible for the day-to-day on the implications of the Companies Act 2006 and corporate management of the Group and the implementation of the governance matters.
strategy approved by the Board.
To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the nOn-executive DirectOrs anD seniOr views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on inDepenDent DirectOr shareholder sentiment from the Finance Director, Head of The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent Investor Relations and Senior Independent Director.
Although element on the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate not part of their induction programme, all non-executive governance.
Although all Directors are equally accountable Directors have a standing invitation to attend shareholder under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys meetings and analyst presentations, and shareholders may affairs, the non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate meet informally with Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
They have a particular responsibility to examine critically the strategies proposed by the executive Directors, perfOrmance evaluatiOn scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed A Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in late goals and objectives, and play a leading role in the functioning 2006, facilitated by an independent external consultant, with of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current results being presented to the January 2007 Board meeting.
non-executive Directors bring experience, expertise and The process was carefully structured but pragmatic, tailored to independent judgement from a variety of business sectors bring about a genuine debate of issues that matter and assist and public life.
in identifying any potential for improvement in Kazakhmys processes.
It entailed the completion of a questionnaire by each Philip Aiken and Simon Heale were approved non-executive Director on a confidential basis, interviews with some Directors Directors on 1 November 2006 and 1 January 2007, respectively.
and the preparation of a composite report by an external Philip Aiken brings a wealth of industry experience, having held consultant.
While being satisfied with its overall performance, several senior roles within the BHP Billiton group prior to his the Board is developing an action plan in respect of certain retirement: and Simon Heale brings significant experience in processes identified for improvement, including for example, base metals trading and marketing and was Chief Executive consideration of additional site visits for non-executive Directors of The London Metal Exchange.
between scheduled Board meetings, continued monitoring of the balance of Board time spent on administration, governance, James Rutland was appointed Senior Independent Director on operations and strategy to ensure adequate time is spent on 3 April 2006.
The Senior Independent Director will, together strategic debate and improved translation facilities at Board with the other non-executive Directors, be available to discuss meetings.
matters of concern with shareholders which normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Financial Officer have failed to resolve, or for which such contact Director, met to consider the performance of the Chairman and is inappropriate.
He also leads the annual evaluation by the provide him with feedback.
non-executive Directors of the Chairmans performance.
re-electiOn Of DirectOrs inDuctiOn, training anD infOrmatiOn New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive for re-election by shareholders at the annual general meeting a comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their following their appointment.
Thereafter, Kazakhmys articles of individual requirements.
The induction programme, which association require that all Directors stand for re-election at is arranged by the Company Secretary, includes visits to the least every three years.
Groups businesses and meetings with senior managers and advisers as appropriate.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role of the Board and its committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures, and provides them with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
62 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 cO RPO R AT E GOv ERn A n cE R EP O R T continued BOarD anD cOmmittee respOnsiBilities Internal control memBerships Approved revised treasury policies embracing a range of The Board is responsible for approving Group strategy, financial risks.
reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, Approved a capital expenditure approval process for major examining major investments, ensuring the appropriate investments.
allocation of financial resources and monitoring the performance Advised on the timing and content of monthly management of the executive team.
It is also responsible for providing accounts and the preparation of annual budgets and periodic leadership and support to the executive management team forecasts.
in creating and sustaining shareholder value through the Received reports from management on the implementation management of the Groups business, together with delivering of new financial reporting procedures and IT systems.
Although it has a formal schedule Reviewed, on behalf of the Board, the scope and of matters specifically referred to it for decision, the Board has effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control since four principal committees to deal with specific aspects of the 1 January 2006 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Groups affairs.
In addition, the Company Secretary has specific Report and Accounts, and was satisfied it was in accordance responsibility to the Group as a whole for its sound governance with the Turnbull Guidance.
and for guidance to the Board in the responsible and effective execution of its tasks.
Risk management Approved a formalised Group risk management framework.
The Audit Committee, which met on six occasions during the Monitored the Groups insurance arrangements, including year, consists of James Rutland chairman, Philip Aiken from the establishment of a catastrophic insurance programme.
1 November 2006 and Simon Heale from 1 January 2007.
David Munro was a member up to 1 October 2006.
Currently Internal audit both James Rutland and Simon Heale have recent and relevant Approved the scope of the three year internal audit financial experience: their biographies are set out on page 54. programme.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit Received reports from internal audit, including management and external auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
responses and recommended remedial actions.
Reviewed the ongoing plan and the level of resources allocated The role of the Committee is to review and monitor the integrity to the internal audit function.
of financial reporting by the Company, the efficacy and reliability of the Groups internal control and risk management systems, External audit the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and the Approved the annual plan detailing the scope and timing relationship with the external auditors.
of work carried out by the external auditors.
Assessed the independence and objectivity of the external The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on auditors, their terms of engagement and the level of audit the Companys website www.
com and on request fees paid to them.
from the Company Secretarys department at the Companys Received reports on the findings from the interim review registered office.
The terms of reference of the Committee and annual audit undertaken by the external auditors and, are reviewed annually.
Reviewed the execution of the agreed audit plan, the At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditors separately with the external auditors and Head of Internal Audit, in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements without management present, to facilitate the discussion of any and the content of the auditors interim review and annual matter relating to its remit and any issues arising from audits.
Arrangements have also been adopted to ensure that the Head Assessed the ongoing effectiveness of the external audit of Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee chairman process through a combination of meetings with the external and is accountable to the Committee.
The Committee reports auditors, detailed feedback from management, and other on its activities to the next Board meeting following its meeting.
information available to the Committee.
Since 1 January 2006, the Committee has undertaken the Other matters following activities to facilitate the discharge of its Considered arrangements relating to whistleblowing responsibilities: specific to each jurisdiction in which the Group operates.
Approved a number of new policies and procedures Financial reporting to enhance the Groups regulatory framework.
Reviewed draft interim and annual reports and associated Reviewed the Committees effectiveness and terms interim and preliminary results announcements.
Received reports from management on accounting and tax issues.
The Committee also receives regular reports on developments in financial reporting practices, legislative and regulatory changes and other relevant matters so as to keep abreast of current thinking on public reporting and internal controls.
S TAT U TO R Y R E P O R T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 Kazakhmys policy on auditor independence and objectivity, The Nomination Committee consists of Vladimir Kim chairman, which came into force in March 2006, is consistent with the Lord Renwick and Simon Heale from 1 January 2007.
In requirements of the Combined Code and ethical standards accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code the published by the Accounting Practices Board.
The policy majority of the members are independent non-executive requires the Committee to review the external auditors plan Directors and the Group Chairman is chairman of the and the effectiveness of the audit process, the arrangements Committee.
David Munro was a member up to 1 October 2006. for the management of the audit relationship, review a report from the external auditors on all relationships with Kazakhmys The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent that might reasonably have a bearing on the external auditors procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, independence and the audit partner and staffs objectivity, generally consults external consultants and advisers on and the related safeguards and procedures.
The Committee prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under has also determined a policy for governing the provision of review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and non-audit services by the external auditors and their associates.
its Committees, assesses the development of Directors including induction, training and succession planning, considers the The Committees policy includes the identification of certain specific experience and skill needed for an appointment and non-audit services which the external auditors are prohibited recommends to the Board the appointment of all Directors.
from providing and a process through which other non-audit The terms of reference of the Committee are available on services are approved.
All non-audit services require the Kazakhmys website www.
com and on request agreement of the Finance Director before they can be from the Company Secretarys department at the Companys undertaken, with certain engagements over 50,000 only being registered office.
awarded to the external auditor after a competitive tender process.
The non-audit services of the external auditors will only During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board be used where the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner the appointment of two further non-executive Directors, the and the external auditors maintain the necessary degree of appointment of David Munro as Strategy Director and the independence and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services appointment of Oleg Novachuk as Chief Executive.
The are reported to the Audit Committee twice a year.
The policy Committee also recommended the appointment of Matthew will be kept under review and may be amended from time to Hird as Chief Financial Officer and Robert Welch as Company time as necessary.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and at least one member of the Committee, other than the Chairman, will Subject to receipt of appropriate shareholder authority, the interview each potential new non-executive Director before any Committee approves all fees paid to the external auditors.
recommendations are made to the Board.
The Committee met Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the four times during the year.
The Committee reports on its year for audit and non-audit services are set out in note 10 on activities to the next Board meeting following its meeting.
The Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee, which The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year.
met four times during the year, consists of David Munro The members of the Committee are Lord Renwick chairman, chairman, James Rutland and Philip Aiken from 1 November Philip Aiken from 1 November 2006 and Simon Heale from 2006.
Yong Keu Cha was a member up to 31 December 2006.
1 January 2007 : David Munro and James Rutland were members up to 1 October 2006 and 1 January 2007, respectively.
Details Its principal tasks are to evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups of the Committees main functions, and its current policies for policies and systems for identifying and managing health, safety Board Directors, are given in the Directors Remuneration Report and environment risks within the Group, to recommend to the commencing on page 66.
Board the Groups policies on health, safety and environment matters and to ensure that an effective system of health, safety and environment standards, procedures and practices is in place at each of the Groups operational sites.
The Committee reports on its activities to the next Board meeting following its meeting.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on Kazakhmys website www.
com and on request from the Company Secretarys department at the Companys registered office.
64 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 cORPOR ATE GOv ERnAncE R EP OR T continued attenDance at BOarD anD cOmmittee meetings established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and standards, has set up a framework for reporting matters of each meeting of the Committees of which they are members, significance, has authorised the Audit Committee to review the unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them performance of the Groups internal financial reporting, internal from doing so.
controls and risk management systems and has reserved specific key matters for its decision.
The process is designed to provide The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board assurance by way of cumulative assessment.
and of Board Committees of which they were members during 2006 is shown below.
Where a Director was appointed to the Key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: Board or to a Committee during the year, or ceased to be a Group financial, operating and administrative policies and committee member during the year, their attendance is only procedures which incorporate statements of required shown for those meetings they were eligible to attend, for behaviour.
example, 5 6 signifies that five meetings were attended out Continuous review of operating performance.
Monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, annual budgets and Current Directors Board Audit Remuneration Nomination GHSE periodic forecasts.
Vladimir Kim 6 6 4 4 Approval by the Board of all major investments, with Yong Keu Cha 6 6 1 3 proposals being subject to rigorous strategic and commercial Oleg Novachuk 6 6 examination.
Philip Aiken 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 A centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme to support David Munro 6 6 5 5 1 1 3 3 4 4 the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
Vladimir Ni 3 6 Regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and Lord Renwick 6 6 3 3 4 4 effectiveness of internal control.
James Rutland 6 6 6 6 3 3 4 4 Regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee on health, safety and environmental 1 Vladimir Ni missed three scheduled Board meetings and Yong Keu Cha missed two matters.
HSE committee meetings owing to conflicts in schedules.
The Board, in conjunction with management, has agreed a internal cOntrOl number of activities to further develop the internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of environment.
Progress on these initiatives, alongside the internal control and risk management and for reviewing the development of embedded risk management and assurance effectiveness of this system.
Such a system is designed to processes, is being made.
Details of initiatives in the area of identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks associated financial risk management can be found in the Business Review with the Groups achievement of its business objectives with a commencing on page 12, and initiatives in the area of health, view to safeguarding shareholders investments and the Groups safety and the environment can be found in the Corporate assets.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of Responsibility Report on pages 48 to 53. internal control, this system is designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, and is Although significant progress has been made since Listing to designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Accordingly, such improve the Groups system of internal control, further progress a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance is required over the next two to three years to achieve the levels against material misstatement or loss.
of internal control typically found in other UK companies of the size and complexity of Kazakhmys.
The Board confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Any acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups Report and Accounts, there have been processes in place for system of internal control as soon as practicable and in any identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced event within 12 months of acquisition.
by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To identify and manage key risks, it has S TAT U TO R Y R E P O R T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 65 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 internal auDit Whilst these measures have laid the foundations for a robust risk Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which management system to be embedded across the Group, further systems of internal control are adequate and effective to steps need to be taken over the next two years to ensure it is manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and comparable with other international listed mining companies.
ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk and controls to senior gOing cOncern management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
After reviewing the Groups financial resources and projected cash flows, particularly those relating to major investments, Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to including capital projects, the Board has a reasonable the Group and its programme of work is approved by the expectation that the Group has sufficient resources to continue Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Board to the Audit Committee.
has adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A Head of Internal Audit was appointed shortly after Listing, with further professional staff being recruited to ensure the approved sharehOlDer cOmmunicatiOns three year audit plan is achieved.
Internal audits across a number The Board recognises the importance of good communications of operations and functions have been undertaken which has with shareholders.
In addition to the Interim and Annual Reports facilitated the development of appropriately balanced internal which are sent to all shareholders, there is a regular dialogue audit reporting and the design of suitable benchmarks relating with individual institutional shareholders, who also from timeto performance indicators and internal control measures to-time visit the Groups operations.
There are also general appropriate to the circumstances of the Group.
institutional analyst presentations each half year, quarterly production results with associated conference calls, and there Whilst considerable progress has been made since Listing in is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the developing an internal audit programme, further progress needs Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the principal Board to be made over the next one or two years to ensure it meets the committees at the annual general meeting.
After the annual standards typically found in other UK-listed companies.
general meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
management Of risk The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to The Company has approved a communications policy which financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall management has been adopted throughout the Group.
The executive of these risks is vested in the Board, although the Audit Directors are available, through the Head of Investor Relations, Committee has delegated authority for overseeing the Groups to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time during risk management framework.
the year and the Chairman holds regular meetings with major shareholders to discuss governance and strategy.
Non-executive To support the Board, Audit Committee and management in Directors, and in particular the Senior Independent Director, their respective risk management roles, a Group Risk Manager have made and will continue to make themselves available to was appointed during the year to co-ordinate risk assessment attend meetings with shareholders in order to develop an and identification activities, and to facilitate the development understanding of their views.
The Company responds as of appropriate responses to identified risks.
necessary to requests from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
A formalised, but straightforward risk management framework was approved by the Board during the year.
The framework Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set comprises risk identification and assessment processes, together out in Shareholder Information on page 145 and on the with risk response and monitoring activities, and clarifies the risk Companys website www.
management responsibilities of the Board, Audit Committee and management.
Overall, the framework is designed to provide assurance that risks are being identified and managed in a manner appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
