Corporate governance The board is accountable to the companys All new directors receive an induction on joining Executive committee shareholders for maintaining standards of the board, including information about the Chaired by the chief executive and comprising corporate governance.
The board considers that company and their responsibilities, meetings the executive directors and the chairman, the company has complied throughout the with key managers, and visits to the companys it has delegated authority to deal with specific accounting period with the provisions set out operations.
Briefings are provided to directors matters remitted to it by the board.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
on relevant issues, including legislative, regulatory and financial reporting matters.
Training is Audit committee The following is an explanation of how the available to directors on, and subsequent to, Christopher Fisher is the chairman of the company applies the Combined Code.
their appointment to meet their particular audit committee.
The other members of the requirements.
There is an agreed procedure committee are Ed Anderson and Kate Avery, The board of directors for directors to take independent professional each of whom was appointed on 22 September The board meets at least six times each year and advice at the companys expense in furtherance 2005.
All three members of the audit committee more frequently where considered appropriate of their duties in relation to board or committee are independent non executive directors and or where business needs require.
Directors have access to the group each has sufficient recent and relevant financial meetings of the non executive directors are company secretary who is responsible for experience to discharge his her functions.
The board has a schedule ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Jackson and Derek Roberts were members of the of matters reserved for its decision and the The directors receive full and timely access to audit committee until their retirement from the requirement for board approval on these matters all relevant information, including a monthly board on 30 September 2005.
The external is communicated widely throughout the senior board pack of operational and financial reports.
auditor, the head of internal audit and the management of the group.
Direct access to key executives is encouraged.
company secretary attend all meetings.
The The board determines the groups strategic The company has directors and officers group finance director and group financial insurance in place.
objectives and key policies, and approves the controller usually attend by invitation.
The business plans for each group company, interim committee also meets with the external auditor The board comprises a chairman, two executive and final financial statements, recommendations without the presence of executive management directors and five non executive directors.
Ed of dividends, significant investment and major when it considers it necessary or appropriate to Anderson, Kate Avery, Christopher Fisher and new business proposals, as well as significant do so.
The committee chairman reports on the David Salkeld are considered by the board to be organisational matters and corporate governance activities of the committee to the board meeting independent of management and free from any arrangements.
The board is also responsible for immediately following each committee meeting.
business or other relationship which could establishing and reviewing the groups system of materially interfere with the exercise of their The audit committees key tasks include: internal control and risk management, and independent judgements.
Richard Schmidt was reviewing at least annually its effectiveness.
The the review and monitoring of the integrity of previously an executive of the company.
David roles of the board, the chairman and the chief the interim and annual financial statements: Salkeld is the senior independent director.
The executive are formally set out and agreed by the roles of chairman and chief executive are separate the review of the groups system of internal board.
There are clear levels of delegated and held by John Napier and Kevin Whiteman control, including financial, operational, authority, which enable management to take respectively.
John Napier met the independence compliance and risk management: decisions in the normal course of business.
criteria of the Combined Code on his overseeing the companys relationship with the appointment, although he subsequently served in During the year a formal performance external auditor, agree the nature and scope of evaluation of the board, its committees and its an interim executive capacity, which he the audit and review the independence and relinquished in September 2002. directors was undertaken.
The process involved objectivity of the external auditor: the completion by each director of both a self Any director appointed during the year is required, evaluation and an evaluation of the performance the monitoring and reviewing of the under the provisions of the companys articles of and effectiveness of the board as a whole effectiveness of the internal audit function.
association, to retire and seek election by and individual directors.
Individual discussions shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
In undertaking these tasks the committee between each director and the chairman, and The articles of association of the company require receives and reviews work carried out by the meetings of the board and the non executive each director to be subject to re-election at internal and external auditors and their findings.
directors including meetings without the intervals of no more than three years.
Both the internal and external auditor work to chairman to appraise his performance to an annual plan developed in consultation with consider issues arising from the evaluation The board has delegated certain authority to the committee.
In addition the committee process and to identify and implement the following committees.
Each committee has reviews specific business areas and processes formal terms of reference, which are available appropriate action, were held.
The evaluation from time to time.
In particular, during the year, on request from the company secretary or on concluded that the board and its committees the committee considered significant operated effectively, and that each director the corporate governance section of the accounting policies in relation to the adoption demonstrated commitment to the role and companys website at www.
of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Corporate governance The regular business of the audit committee The split between audit and non audit fees for The nomination committee meets at least includes consideration of reports on financial the year to 31 March 2006 appears at Note 4 to annually to discharge such of these functions statements, audit planning, the activities of the financial statements.
The non audit fees were as may be required.
internal audit and its key findings, and the paid in relation to taxation services including, Kate Avery and Ed Anderson were appointed by consideration of the operation of internal control exceptionally, 0.4m for the provision of advice in the board as non executive directors on 1 June processes.
Additional matters considered during connection with the conditional sale of Aquarion, 2005.
Candidates were identified with the the year include a review of the system of internal which was of a one-off nature.
The amount and assistance of independent search consultants.
control and risk management, the appointment nature of non audit fees are considered by the The nomination committee met to consider and re-appointment of the external auditor, a committee not to affect the independence or applicants and to develop a recommendation review of the effectiveness of internal audit, and objectivity of the external auditor.
the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The company has a policy for Remuneration committee Corporate social responsibility committee disclosure of malpractice, and the audit Details of the membership and role of the John Napier is chairman of the corporate social committee reviews the arrangements by which remuneration committee are included in the responsibility committee, and Kevin Whiteman staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about directors remuneration report on page 38. is a member of it.
Roger Hyde, a non executive possible improprieties in matters of financial director of Yorkshire Water, is also a member reporting or other matters.
Nomination committee of the committee.
He was formerly the Head John Napier is chairman of the nomination The independence and objectivity of the external of the Environment Agency, North East Region.
The other members are Kate Avery, auditors is considered on a regular basis, with The committee recommends to the board Ed Anderson, Christopher Fisher and David particular regard to the level of non audit fees.
appropriate corporate social responsibility Salkeld.
Ken Jackson and Derek Roberts were policies and procedures.
It is responsible for the The company has adopted an auditor members of the committee until their publication of the corporate social responsibility independence policy which establishes retirement on 30 September 2005. review which is available on the internet at procedures and guidance under which the The main functions of the committee are: www.
companys relationship with its external auditor is governed so that the audit committee is able to review the structure, size and composition Board attendance to satisfy itself that there are no factors which of the board, the audit committee and the The table below shows the number of meetings may, or may be seen to, impinge upon the remuneration committee and make of the board, audit, remuneration and nomination independence and objectivity of the audit process.
recommendations to the board with regard committees attended by each director, out of to necessary adjustments: The key features of the policy are: possible attendances.
to prepare a role and capabilities statement clear accountability of the auditor to the for the appointment of a chairman and to audit committee and the chairman of the identify and nominate candidates for the board of the company: approval of the board: the audit committee considers annually its to provide advice and recommendations to recommendation to re-appoint the auditor: the board in respect of appointments of the auditor is required to disclose the other directors.
safeguards and steps taken to ensure independence and objectivity: rotation of audit partners and appropriate Board Audit Remuneration Nomination restrictions on appointment of employees of the auditor: John Napier 8 8 3 3 Ed Anderson 6 6 3 3 1 1 specific restrictions and procedures in relation Kate Avery 5 6 3 3 2 2 1 1 to the allocation of non audit work to the Christopher Fisher 8 8 4 4 2 2 3 3 auditor.
These include categories of work Ken Jackson 3 4 1 2 2 2 which cannot be allocated to the auditor, and Derek Roberts 4 4 2 2 2 2 categories of work which may be allocated to David Salkeld 8 8 2 2 3 3 the auditor, subject to certain provisions as to Richard Schmidt 8 8 materiality, nature of the work, or the approval Martin Towers 8 8 of the audit committee.
At each of its meetings Kevin Whiteman 8 8 the audit committee receives a report of the fees paid to the auditor in all capacities.
Kelda Group plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Communication with shareholders The group has comprehensive and well defined The audit committee reviews and monitors the Shareholders have direct access to the company control policies with clear structures, delegated effectiveness of the process on behalf of the authority levels and accountabilities.
During the year the audit committee via the investor relations section of its website a group procedure governing appraisal and undertook a detailed review of the process.
com and its free shareholder information telephone service.
The website is approval of business development and investment a result, a more detailed process for evaluation updated with all announcements and expenditure.
Post completion reviews are and prioritisation of risks has been adopted, required on significant business development involving specific measures of potential impact presentations, and contains investor relations projects and material investment expenditure.
and likelihood of risks arising.
information which is updated regularly.
There is regular dialogue with individual The groups risk management process aims to In addition to this process, businesses are be comprehensive, systematic and continuous, subject to: a quarterly comprehensive review institutional shareholders as well as general and based on constant monitoring of business by the executive team: independent internal presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
All shareholders have the opportunity risk.
The key features of the process include and external audits which are reported to the to put questions at the companys annual the following: executive team and the audit committee: an general meeting and the company will make extensive budget and target setting process: The main risks facing the group are identified a quarterly reporting and forecasting process a presentation at the meeting to highlight the and recorded in a strategic risk register together reviewing performance against agreed key business developments.
The chairmen of with the control mechanisms applicable to the audit, remuneration and nominations objectives: appropriate delegated authority each risk.
These are collated from risk registers committees will be available to answer questions levels: established financial policies and maintained by individual businesses.
at the annual general meeting to be held on procedures: and other risk management policies and procedures such as health and safety and 25 July 2006.
There is clear allocation of management responsibility for risk identification, recording, environmental policies.
The board receives reports from executive analysis and control.
directors following meetings with investors.
The board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Formal reports of investor feedback are The audit committee generally meets four presented to the board following the interim and times each year and reviews the effectiveness It has received the reports of the audit annual results presentations.
An investor relations of the systems which are in place and reports committee and has conducted a formal annual report is presented to the board each month.
review covering all controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, A risk management forum, chaired by in accordance with the Internal Control: Internal control the group financial controller, has been Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The board is responsible for the groups system of established with formal terms of reference issued in September 1999 and updated in internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
comprising senior management from key An ongoing process, in accordance with the October 2005.
Following its review the board disciplines and operating companies.
It advises determined that it was not aware of any guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal and assists operational managing directors significant deficiency or material weakness Control, has been established for identifying, and the board on the implementation of the in the system of internal control.
evaluating and managing the significant risks risk management process and monitors risk faced by the group and this has been in place on behalf of the board.
It reports to the for the year under review and up to the date of audit committee.
approval of the annual report and accounts.
Strategic, financial, commercial, operational, and Business units are required to report annually social, environmental and ethical risks fall within on principal business risks and the operation of control mechanisms.
the scope of this process.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure The internal audit department provides to achieve business objectives and can only objective assurance and advice on risk provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance management and control, and monitors the against material misstatement or loss.
During the risk management process.
financial year, material joint ventures have been dealt with as part of the group for the purposes of applying the guidance.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37
