Corporate governance statement The Code the management and organisation of the Residential division: The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate conduct and is committed to managing the Groups a review of the adequacy of Group standing orders, separation operations in accordance with the best principles of corporate of authorities and reporting lines: governance as contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued in July 2003 and health & safety strategies and particular issues as they arose: has complied with the Code throughout the year except as and explained below.
presentations on divisional strategic issues from the senior Throughout the reporting year, the Nomination Committee management of each of the divisions.
was not comprised of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
This was addressed as at 1 July 2006 with the The Groups chairman is Mr P T Warry who leads the Board, is appointment of Mr P M White as a non-executive director to responsible for its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
He facilitates the Board along with the Remuneration, Nomination and the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and Audit Committees.
ensures a positive and constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors.
The chairman is also Board of directors responsible for effective communication with shareholders.
The Board of Kier Group plc is responsible to its shareholders for the success of the Company.
It sets the strategic and The chief executive is Mr J Dodds who is responsible for the financial policies of the Group, monitors and reviews business operational management of the Group and is accountable performance and controls risk.
As part of the Groups to the Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
organisational structure described on page 38 under In order to facilitate this, the chief executive meets monthly Internal Control the Board has put in place standing orders with a management committee comprised of the other executive which are designed to ensure the provision to it of relevant directors, he also chairs monthly management meetings with information on a timely basis, which set authorisation limits each of the divisions.
As director responsible for human resource and which reserve certain matters for the Board or its matters and health & safety he also meets regularly with the head committees, including: of personnel and the Group head of safety, health & environment.
strategy and financial policy: The senior independent non-executive director is Mr P F Berry.
the approval of financial statements: Biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 32 and 33.
All the directors with the exception of Mr I M Lawson, risk management: Mr M P Sheffield and Mr P M White served throughout the year.
The Board considers Mr P F Berry, Mr S W Leathes and major capital expenditure: Mr P M White to be independent.
In considering the independence of the non-executive directors, the Board took into major project approval: account the fact that as of April 2006, Mr P F Berry had held his directorship for nine years and concluded that this did not affect acquisitions and disposals: and his independence.
Mr P F Berry is standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
He has however, informed certain aspects of human resource policy, including senior the Board of his intention to retire as a non-executive director at appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans the end of the financial year, after completing 10 years service and pension provision.
The Nomination Committee will shortly commence a search for a non-executive director to fill the vacancy created The principal matters considered by the Board during the year by Mr P F Berrys retirement.
included: A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board the Groups budgets, strategy and financial requirements: and its various committees is set out on page 37.
In addition to these meetings, the full Board attends away-days which focus the full and interim reports and accounts taking into account on strategy on a divisional basis, material issues facing the the views of the Audit Committee, including the implications of Group and succession planning.
Outside of the formal schedule the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards: of meetings, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors a number of times during the year.
the appointments of Mr I M Lawson, Mr M P Sheffield and Mr P M White as directors upon the recommendations of the All directors have access to the advice and services of the Nomination Committee : company secretary and the directors are able to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys appropriate measures to address the deficit in the Groups final expense.
Training is available for new directors and other salary pension scheme: directors as necessary.
Mr I M Lawson and Mr M P Sheffield attended a two-day seminar on corporate governance subsequent the implications of and proper approach to the issues with the to their appointment.
All directors are subject to election by Castlepoint shopping centre car park: shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more potential acquisitions, including Hugh Bourn Developments than three years.
Executive directors are required to seek approval Wragby Limited and a commercial property portfolio from from the Board before accepting any external non-executive Warner Estates: positions, although none is currently held.
36 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board evaluation of non-audit services, other than tax compliance and routine The chairman carried out an evaluation of the Board in the taxation advice, must be referred to and agreed by the Committee spring summer of 2006 by way of an externally developed over a pre-determined cost threshold and any work costed objective based questionnaire.
This included all the committees below that threshold must be pre-approved by the Group of the Board.
The chairman held individual meetings with each finance director.
director to discuss their views and to canvass suggestions.
The conclusions were discussed collectively by the Board and a No consultancy related work has been carried out by the number of minor operational improvements agreed.
The Board auditors during the year.
The Committee was satisfied, following separately reviewed the performance of the chairman without its review, that KPMGs objectivity and independence had not the chairman being present.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executives The Committee agreed and approved the audit fee at the June are available for inspection at the registered office and will be meeting following discussions between divisional management on display prior to and at the Annual General Meeting.
and the divisional KPMG audit teams.
Audit Committee The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually The Audit Committee comprises the three independent nonand were updated in 2004 in line with the guidance and executive directors under the chairmanship of Mr S W Leathes, recommendations of the revised Combined Code.
The terms of a chartered accountant with recent and relevant financial reference are available on request and on the Companys website.
Mr P M White was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 July 2006.
The Committee met three times during Remuneration Committee the year in September, March and June prior to the Board The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent meetings.
These Committee meetings were also attended by the non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Mr P F Berry.
finance director and the head of internal audit.
The KPMG audit Mr P M White was appointed to the Committee with effect from engagement director attended the September and March 1 July 2006. meetings.
The chairman and executive directors were also invited to attend the meetings.
The Committee also met with KPMG Information about the workings of this Committee is contained without the presence of the management.
in the directors remuneration report on page 39.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Companys The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which framework of executive remuneration and determines, on its outline its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial behalf, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive reporting, internal controls, risk management and the application directors and the chairman.
In doing so it takes the advice of of appropriate accounting policies and procedures.
The terms of reference are responsibilities include reviewing and recommending for available on the Companys website.
approval the annual and interim financial statements, reviewing the Groups accounting policies, reviewing the effectiveness of Nomination Committee internal controls and risk management and reviewing the scope The Nomination Committee presently comprises the chairman, and results of the external audit.
the chief executive and the non-executive directors.
Mr P M White was appointed to the Committee with effect from The Audit Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the 1 July 2006.
It is responsible for monitoring the composition Group internal audit function including approval of the annual and balance of the Board, making recommendations to the risk-based audit plan and monitoring the work, recommendations Board on new Board appointments and succession planning.
and effectiveness of the function.
The head of internal audit The Committee met four times during the year.
Recruitment reports directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
consultants were retained in relation to the appointment of Mr P M White.
The Committees terms of reference are available At each of its meetings the Committee received and reviewed on the Companys website.
a report from the head of internal audit which highlighted the status of the Group risk management processes and audit activity Board and Committee Meetings against the approved plan together with the findings from internal Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the audits.
The chairman of the Audit Committee also met regularly Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are with the head of internal audit and the Committee has met with set out in the table below.
the head of internal audit without the presence of management.
Name of director Board 11 Audit 3 Remuneration 3 Nomination 4 The Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function at the June meeting.
P T Warry 11 4 J Dodds 11 4 The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence 1 I M Lawson 8 and objectivity of KPMG, the external auditor, and agreeing the D E Mattar 11 level of remuneration and extent of non-audit services.
The 1 M P Sheffield 8 Committee received a presentation from KPMG on its audit R W Side 11 strategy and the scope of work at the March meeting which it R W Simkin 11 agreed.
It also discussed the firms professional ethical standards.
P F Berry 11 3 3 4 S W Leathes 11 3 3 4 The Committee reviewed the performance of KPMG and the level of non-audit fees paid to them during the year which are set out 1 Mr I M Lawson and Mr M P Sheffield were appointed on 1 October 2005 in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The provision 37 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance statement continued Internal control risk registers are in place for each business unit which The Combined Code requires that the directors review the highlight the key risks facing that business together with an effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This assessment of the effectiveness of controls to mitigate those extends the directors review to cover all material controls, risks.
The risk registers are updated regularly and at 31 March: including operational, compliance and financial controls and risk management systems.
The directors are satisfied that procedures an annual process of risk and control self assessment is used are in place to ensure that the Group complies with the Turnbull in the Group whereby all operating companies are required Committee guidance published by the Institute of Chartered to review and confirm that appropriate internal controls are Accountants in England and Wales and that the procedures have in place and operating effectively across the key risk areas been applied during the year.
identified in individual company risk registers.
This assessment was carried out on 31 March 2006 and the findings reviewed The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups by the Audit Committee: system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board considers that the Groups systems and controls are regular monitoring, review and reporting of safety, health & appropriately designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to environmental matters: and significant risks is properly managed.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure the provision of a confidential method of reporting any to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable suspected fraud or other misfeasance to the head of and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
In reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, which have been developed and refined over many years, the directors The Board receives regular reports from all operating units to have considered the key risks and exposures within the Group.
monitor their performance and all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
The key features of the Groups system of internal controls and principal controls are: During the course of the year members of the Board visit all companies and monitor the control framework of each business.
an established management structure operating throughout The Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness and the Group with clearly defined levels of responsibility and effectiveness of internal controls.
delegation of authorities: Relations with shareholders clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate authorisation limits set at appropriate levels.
These are set with shareholders and encourages their attendance and out in the Group and divisional standing orders: participation.
The chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee are available to answer questions from a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place shareholders.
The Group also maintains a regular dialogue with which is regularly reviewed and updated: institutional investors to assist in the understanding of the Groups objectives and the Company has a programme of regular a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, communication with investors, analysts and brokers.
business performance, risk and internal control matters is Presentations are made to investors, analysts and press at the time carried out by the directors of each division with the chief of the announcement of the final and half-year results and there executive and finance director in attendance: are regular meetings with analysts and investors which are arranged through the Companys brokers so that the investment monthly management reporting including regular comparison community can be kept informed.
The Board is provided with of actual results against latest forecasts: independent feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders periodically.
established policies and procedures governing the Groups investment in land, property and other significant assets, The Kier website is also maintained to aid communication with including acquisitions and disposals.
These include detailed investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public.
appraisals, appropriate authorisation levels and Board approval depending on value or perceived exposure: investment decisions, including Private Finance Initiative PFI projects and tenders for contracts are subject to approval by the Board, the chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
Individual tender and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before contract award: internal audits are carried out to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls.
The scope of the internal audit work is planned to cover the key risks faced by the business and supplemented by cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
Internal audit findings are reported to the Audit Committee and the executive directors on a regular basis: 38 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
