Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 31 Corporate governance report Combined Code statement For 11 months of the year, Kingfishers Board comprised the Kingfisher is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, five other independent corporate governance.
The Board endorses the principles set out Non-Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive and two in the Combined Code and during the year ended 28 January other Executive Directors.
Peter Jackson was appointed as a 2006 the Company has complied in full with the requirements of Non-Executive Director on 3 January 2006.
He will take over as the Code with the exception that the Chairman has not formally Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM in May 2006 when Sir held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors collectively in the Francis Mackay retires.
On appointment he was independent in absence of the Executive Directors, although one informal meeting accordance with the Combined Code.
of the Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman, has been Having regard to the Combined Code and the output from the held.
However, in addition to the usual opportunities that the Board evaluation process, the Board believes all the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have for contact and Directors to be independent.
discussion, the Board has decided to hold such meetings at least There is a clear and documented division of responsibilities annually in future.
between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, which can be obtained at www.
The Senior Independent Board of Directors Director is John Nelson.
The role of the Board is to determine the Groups strategy and provide vision and entrepreneurial leadership.
It oversees All Directors are provided with, and have full and timely access to, managements implementation of the strategy and acts as a information that enables them to make informed decisions on sounding board for senior executives.
It also provides a critical corporate and business issues, including operational and financial overview of strategic risks and monitors the adequacy of the performance, risk management and business plans.
In particular, Groups control environment.
the Board receives monthly information on the performance and results of the Group and the individual operating businesses.
The The matters which are reserved to the Board and the authorities Executive Directors receive information on sales and margin for the delegated to management are contained within the Matters Group and the individual businesses on a weekly basis and, for the Reserved for the Board available at www.
com as well as major businesses, sales on a daily basis.
within various policies covering such matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters and In addition to the schedule of matters reserved for itself, the Board internal audit.
has delegated certain matters to a number of standing Committees with defined Terms of Reference, which are published on the These policies and the system of internal controls are also Companys website at www.
The Board members supported by Kingfishers Code of Conduct.
This was updated and length of service and their Committee membership is shown in the re-issued during the year.
The Code of Conduct is available to all following table: employees in French and English and, to the extent possible, forms part of the employees contract of employment.
Name Length of service Age Board Committee membership Francis Mackay 4 years and 6 months 61 Nomination Chairman Phil Bentley 3 years and 5 months 47 Audit Chairman, Nomination 2 2 Ian Cheshire 5 years and 10 months 46 Social Responsibility, Executive Michael Hepher 8 years and 7 months 62 Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Peter Jackson 3 months 59 Nomination Hartmut Krmer 3 years and 4 months 59 Nomination 2 Gerry Murphy 3 years and 2 months 50 Nomination, Social Responsibility 2 2 1 Finance, Executive, Disclosure John Nelson 4 years and 2 months 58 Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Margaret Salmon 8 years and 7 months 58 Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, 2 Social Responsibility Chairman 2 2 1 Duncan Tatton-Brown 2 years and 2 months 41 Finance, Executive, Disclosure 1 In July, following the introduction of the revised Listing Rules, the Disclosure Committee was created comprising Gerry Murphy, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Helen Jones the Company Secretary.
2 Since the year end the responsibilities of the Finance Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee have been incorporated into the Terms of Reference of the Executive Committee.
This Committee comprises the Executive Directors and is routinely attended by senior managers.
Its Terms of Reference can be found at www.
The Directors biographies, which can be found on pages 26 and 27, illustrate the Directors range of experience, which is intended to provide an effective Board to lead and control Kingfisher.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
32 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance report continued On appointment, each Director receives a tailored induction The Board regards independent performance evaluation as an programme which includes: important part of monitoring and improving its effectiveness.
The Board has recently completed another review, which was Store visits: conducted by Independent Audit Limited.
Independent Audit Meetings with management of the operating businesses: and also reviewed the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees in relation to their Terms of Reference and External training courses at the Companys expense, if required.
A number of recommendations Peter Jacksons induction programme includes spending time have been made to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of with the managements of B&Q UK, Castorama France and Brico the Board.
Sir Francis Mackay has asked Peter Jackson, as Dpt and visiting a number of their and competitors stores.
Chairman-designate, to assume responsibility for taking this Visits to Poland and China are scheduled for later this year as work forward with the Board as an important part of his are meetings with investors.
preparation for becoming Chairman in May 2006.
External training at the Companys expense is available on an The results of the Board evaluation will also be used by the ongoing basis and the Board visits and meets with a number of Chairman and Peter Jackson for assessing the individual operating companies and their management teams each year.
performance of Directors and will inform the Nomination Committees assessment of the skills required by any new In addition, ad hoc update training is provided on appropriate Non-Executive Directors.
matters and in 2005 this included a presentation and discussion on the new Listing Rules and the impact of the Market Abuse The attendance record of individual Directors at Board and and Prospectus Directives.
Committee meetings is detailed below.
Board meetings Committee meetings Normal Strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination Finance Disclosure Number of meetings in year Francis Mackay 9 2575 Gerry Murphy 92575 12 3 John Nelson 92575 Phil Bentley 81545 Ian Cheshire 9 2 1 5 Michael Hepher 82575 1 Peter Jackson 1 n a Hartmut Krmer 9 2 1 5 2 Margaret Salmon 92275 Duncan Tatton-Brown 9252 113 1 Appointed to the Board on 3 January 2006.
2 Appointed to the Audit Committee on 9 September 2005.
Details of the Audit and Nomination Committees are provided in of two Directors, one of which had to be either the Group Chief the individual reports of those Committees on page 45.
The details Executive or the Group Finance Director.
The Committee was of the Remuneration Committee are in the Remuneration Report responsible for the treasury operations of the Group, the approval on pages 36 to 44: the details of the remaining two Committees and authorisation of financing documents and signature authorities are: on bank accounts, within its terms of reference and the authority limits laid down by the Board.
It reviewed borrowing arrangements Social Responsibility Committee comprised Margaret Salmon and other financial transactions.
It also allotted new shares in the Chairman plus the Group Chief Executive, Ian Cheshire and Company to Kingfisher employees following the exercise of share representatives of the operating companies.
responsible for developing a general policy for the Group and overseeing the activities of the operating companies relating to With effect from 29 January 2006 the responsibilities of the Social environmental, community and equal opportunities matters.
The Responsibility Committee and the Finance Committee have been Board Director with overall responsibility for environmental matters taken over by the Executive Committee.
This Committee formally remains the Group Chief Executive.
No formal meetings of the comprises the Executive Directors of the Company.
In addition, Committee were held during the year: however CSR issues were members of the senior management team attend the meetings.
discussed with senior management across the year at meetings of The reasons for the change were to: the senior management team.
Introduce an effective method of ensuring the active participation of Finance Committee comprised the Group Chief Executive, the senior operational management in understanding the key issues Group Finance Director and any one other Director, with a quorum facing Kingfisher, as a UK listed company: Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 33 Re-emphasise to the businesses the importance the Board places Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the on Social Responsibility and, consequently, to have the active AGM, which includes a short presentation on the business.
The participation of the senior management of the businesses in the AGM also provides an opportunity for shareholders to discuss with debate and implementation of solutions: and Executive and Non-Executive Directors any issues they have concerning the Company and its activities.
Reduce, overall, the number of meetings senior executives need to attend.
Auditor independence For a number of years Kingfisher has had clear rules and Company Secretary authorisation processes for the instruction of the auditors for nonAll Directors have access to, and the services of, the Company audit work: this was reviewed and updated during the year and Secretary and may take independent professional advice at details can be found at www.
The auditors are Kingfishers expense.
precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the above compromise their independence or violate any laws or regulations Committees.
affecting their appointment as auditors.
Approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required prior to awarding contracts for The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating the non-audit services to the external auditors in excess of a specified induction and professional development of Board members as well amount.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee as ensuring good information flows within the Board, its annually on their independence from the Company.
Periodic Committees and between the Non-Executive Directors and senior rotation of key partners is also required.
Accountability, risk management and internal control Relations with shareholders Internal control Kingfisher is committed to an active dialogue with its shareholders The Board considers risk assessment, identification of mitigating through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving a key component of its corporate communications programme Kingfishers strategic corporate objectives within an acceptable and is headed by the Group Communications Director, Ian risk reward profile.
This system of internal control is: Shareholders also receive Annual and Interim Reports and the Investors section of Kingfishers website The Boards overall responsibility: www.
com investors includes copies of all these, all Regularly, and at least annually, reviewed for its effectiveness by trading updates, press announcements and presentations to both the Board and the Audit Committee: shareholders.
In compliance with the Turnbull guidance: and The investor relations programme included formal presentations of full year and interim results, conference calls to discuss quarterly Supported by Kingfishers policies in such areas as Code of trading statements on three other occasions during the year and Conduct, legal and secretarial, finance and treasury.
regular meetings between institutional investors and senior However, such a system is designed to manage rather than management.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Key shareholders were contacted before the appointment of Peter provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Jackson and representatives of institutions holding a majority of material misstatement or loss.
the Companys shares were consulted on the proposals regarding The key elements of this process are summarised below: the revision to the Kingfisher Incentive Scheme and the The Board, which: introduction of the Performance Share Plan described in the Remuneration report on pages 37 and 38 and for which Has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks for shareholder approval is being sought at the AGM in May.
These include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws The Board remains of the view that there are sufficient and regulations.
They are periodically reviewed and updated: opportunities for the necessary dialogue with shareholders and the Board.
Apart from the consultation noted above, these include Regularly reviews and updates the Groups strategy and those of regular meetings between investors and management, the its operating companies: availability of all the Non-Executive Directors for meetings if so Reviews and assesses Kingfishers key risks at least annually: requested by the shareholders and a standing invitation for the reviews performance through a comprehensive system of Non-Executive Directors to attend any of the meetings between reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business shareholders and management.
The Senior Independent Director, reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key John Nelson, is available to shareholders if there are concerns that performance indicators and regular forecasting: cannot be resolved through normal channels of communication.
Has well defined policies governing appraisal and approval of The Board received regular reports concerning institutional capital expenditure and treasury operations: shareholder meetings and their issues and concerns.
Seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through This process and reporting allows the Directors to develop the regular reports from the Audit Committee and various independent necessary understanding of the views of the shareholders and also monitoring functions.
enables the Board to judge whether the investors have a sufficient understanding of the Companys objectives.
34 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee which, in respect of the Group: internal and external audit functions: Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal Has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant announcements relating to financial performance: risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: Reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal control and risk management systems including reports from Has responsibility for and ensures the effective functioning of their Internal Audit on material control weaknesses: operating company audit committee: Reviews the Groups Top Ten risks: Self-certifies that internal control processes are in place and that they comply with Group policies: Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the functions workplans: Supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material Considers and reviews the reports from the external auditors on to the Group.
the principal reporting issues faced by the Group.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management function which: The Executive Committee which, in respect of the Group: Works with the operating companies to develop, improve and Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board, where embed risk management tools and processes into their business appropriate, regarding: operations: The strategic and business plans of the businesses and the Oversees the operation of the individual operating businesses strategic choices of the Group: audit committees: The annual budget and capital expenditure proposals for the Ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly Group: reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are Management Development and senior executive succession periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the plans.
Turnbull guidance: Oversees and reviews the Groups CSR programme and operating Provides the Board with objective assurance on the control companies individual progress: with the Group Chief Executive environment across the Group: reporting to the Board at least annually on issues, progress and Ensures that the operating companies have appropriate recommendations for change.
organisation and processes to carry out regular and effective Approves or, where appropriate, recommends to the Board any reviews of their internal controls: acquisitions or disposals of companies, businesses or significant Monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: assets: Provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary assurances Reviews periodically as necessary the communications messages on the control environment.
to the investor and City community for effectiveness and relevance.
Ensures any issues regarding strategy and performance Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility that the investor and City community are communicating are fully for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to understood, that these are communicated appropriately to the their business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group Board and actions are taken to address any legitimate concerns: executive management reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks which are significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating Oversees the work of the Treasury Committee and reviews and actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the approves on behalf of the Board any significant or unusual treasury Board after review by the Audit Committee.
The type of risks transactions within the limits set out in the Treasury Policy and identified include strategic risk, external factors such as the exercises all powers of execution and delivery of the Board in competitive environment and regulations, change management relation to the approval and authorisation for signature of financing programmes, health and safety, retention of key management and documents within the Committees Terms of Reference and macro market risks.
The Internal Audit plans are designed to authority limits: and address the controls and actions in relation to each businesss Allots new shares in the Company to employees following the significant identified risks.
Where appropriate the risk management exercise of share options in schemes approved by the Board.
process will include the use of insurance.
The business head of each operating company business area The Directors confirm they have reviewed the effectiveness of this who: system of internal control, that any necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses Ensures there is an adequately resourced and appropriately skilled identified from the review and that it accords with the guidance of internal audit and risk management function for their operating the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
business: Social, environmental and ethical Maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant The Executive Committee oversees the social, environment and risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of ethical SEE matters and reports to the Board through the Group the business: Chief Executive.
The Board recognises the importance of SEE Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems matters and considers them on a regular basis.
The Board through an operating company audit committee and reports from receives timely and regular information concerning any risks that Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 35 may be posed regarding such matters from the Group Chief Executive and the Executive Committee, whose role and responsibilities are outlined above and whose Terms of Reference can be obtained at www.
Consideration of the key SEE issues for the Group is embedded into the Groups strategic risk management framework and these issues and the associated relevant behaviours are regarded by the Board as fundamental to the operation of the Group.
The significant areas are also covered by Kingfishers Code of Conduct for employees, non compliance with which is a disciplinary issue.
This, with the oversight exercised by the Executive Committee, results in the Boards view that it is not appropriate to remunerate specifically for SEE behaviours or targets.
The progress and issues considered during the year are highlighted in the Social Responsibility section on pages 14 and 15.
There is also a dedicated section of the Kingfisher website relating to the issues, measures and progress of each of the operating companies.
By Order of the Board Helen Jones Company Secretary 20 March 2006
