Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 45 Audit Committee report Nomination Committee report The Audit Committee consists of four independent Non-Executive The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, all Directors.
It is chaired by Phil Bentley, who is a qualified Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It is accountant and the Group Finance Director of Centrica plc and as chaired by Sir Francis Mackay.
Its Terms of Reference are available such is considered to be suitably qualified to be the Audit at www.
He, John Nelson and Michael Hepher Annually, the Committee reviews the succession plans for the served for the whole year.
Margaret Salmon joined the Committee Board and senior executives and monitors agreed actions.
The in September 2005. succession plan for Executive Directors is considered by the full At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and Board so that the necessary input of the existing Executive the Group Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, as did the Directors can be given.
Suitably qualified external search Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external consultants assist in the search process for all new Board auditors.
There were also regular private meetings with the external appointments.
and internal auditors at which management was not present.
The Committee also keeps the composition of the Board under The Committee provides an independent overview of the review.
The objectives of this are to monitor the continuing effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and financial independence of the Non-Executive Directors, to identify any gaps reporting processes.
Its Terms of Reference are available at in skills or experience so that appropriate training can be arranged, www.
The principal responsibilities include and to inform the succession plan for future Board appointments.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including a As a result of this work, the Committee agrees for review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in recommendation to the Board, plans and processes for ensuring them, and overseeing the work of both the internal and the continuity of experience as well as compliance with the external auditors.
requirement that at least half the Board is comprised of In 2005 06 there were five Committee meetings, with four planned independent Non-Executive Directors.
Should the need arise, ad-hoc meetings are held.
The Committee met five times during the year.
Three meetings A forward agenda covering the whole year was used to ensure were held to consider the Chairmans succession, to review that the Committees Terms of Reference were fully addressed.
possible candidates and recommend the appointment of Peter As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation, the Audit Committee Jackson as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman-designate.
In was reviewed by Independent Audit Limited, who expressed the accordance with the Combined Code, Sir Francis Mackay did not opinion that the Committee had fulfilled all of its responsibilities chair these three meetings.
They were chaired by John Nelson, under its Terms of Reference and the Combined Code.
who is Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
During the year and as part of its normal programme, the Two meetings were held to consider management performance, Committee has considered and reviewed a number of matters, development and succession plans and approve appropriate some of which were: changes.
IT security Additionally at the meetings, the Committee discussed shareholder feedback on management changes and on the proposed The systems and processes around stock management at B&Q UK approach to the Chairmans succession.
Internal audit, which has been strengthened through its continued Sir Francis Mackay, development as a globally integrated function Chairman, Nomination Committee A revised policy on the use of the external auditors for non audit 20 March 2006 work, which was recommended to and approved by the Board and can be obtained at www.
com Phil Bentley, Chairman, Audit Committee 20 March 2006
