Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Corporate governance The Board continues to be committed to high standards of corporate The Chairman conducts an appraisal with each director.
The Board strives to provide the right leadership, strategic independent director, having consulted with the other directors, conducts oversight and control environment to produce and sustain delivery of value an appraisal with the Chairman.
Each director completes a questionnaire to all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board applies integrity, principles on the effectiveness and processes of the Board and its committees.
of good corporate governance and accountability throughout its activities and The results are considered by the Board and the individual committees.
each director brings independence of character and judgment to the role.
Whilst all directors are expected to bring an independent judgment to bear All of the members of the Board are individually and collectively aware of their on issues of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments responsibilities to the Companys stakeholders.
The following describes the and standards of conduct, the independent non-executive directors were Boards approach to corporate governance and how the Combined Code selected and appointed for this purpose.
All directors submit themselves on Corporate Governance has been applied.
for re-election at least every three years.
The independent non-executive Compliance statement directors understand that the Board will not automatically recommend The Company has complied throughout 2006 with the provisions set out their re-election by shareholders.
in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was The Chairman and the independent non-executive directors are appointed published in July 2003. for a specified term of approximately three years, subject to re-election.
Board The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, four executive the Chairman on all governance matters.
directors and six independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman has Board committees a primary responsibility for the running of the Board and for ensuring effective The Board has four standing committees, all of which have written terms of communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for reference clearly setting out their authority and duties.
The terms of reference the operations and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees, which are reviewed for consideration by the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the annually, can be viewed on the Companys website www.
Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Mr L P Lupo acts as senior independent Audit committee director, the principal roles and responsibilities of which are described The members of the committee are Mr N M H Jones appointed as a member elsewhere in this section.
and Chairman on 16 May 2003, Ms C P Wicks appointed 1 June 2004 and Mr H E Staunton appointed 1 September 2006.
Mr I P Livingston resigned The other significant commitments of the Chairman during 2006 are detailed from the committee on 31 October 2006.
All members of the committee are in his biography on page 32. independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the committee are The Board schedules eight meetings each year, but arranges to meet at other made by the Board at the recommendation of the nomination committee, times, as appropriate.
Of the nine board meetings held in 2006, Mr L P Lupo which consults with the Chairman of the audit committee.
and Mr C J Rodrigues were unable to attend two meetings each and The Board has satisfied itself that the members of the committee have recent Ms C P Wicks and Mr H E Staunton were unable to attend one meeting each, and relevant financial experience.
in all cases due to other business commitments.
In addition, the Chairman met during the year with the non-executive directors without the executive The committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the committee and all other employees.
The committee is able to take The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision and independent legal or professional advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
These include the approval of the strategic and annual profit plans, key public information releases e. g. financial statements, dividends, major The committee meets as required, but not less than three times a year.
acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, treasury and other group Four meetings of the audit committee were held in 2006.
The section Internal Control on page 39 contains further information unable to attend one meeting due to other business commitments.
Although on how the Board operates.
other directors, including the Group Finance Director, attend audit committee meetings, the committee also meets for private discussions with the external The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied with appropriate auditor, who attends all of its meetings, and can do so with the internal auditor.
and timely information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board requests additional information or variations to regular reporting as it requires.
A procedure exists for directors to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
A combination of tailored Board and committee agenda items and other Board activities assist the directors in continually updating their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to fulfill their role both on the Board and on Board committees.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to directors.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
38 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued The main role and responsibilities of the committee are to: Appointments to the committee are made by the Board.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: The committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
review the Companys internal financial control and risk management systems: It has access to the services of the Company Secretary who acts as monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit secretary to the committee and all other employees.
The committee is function: and able to take independent legal and professional advice when it believes oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor including it necessary to do so.
the recommendation to the Board of its appointment and remuneration.
The committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Three Should the committees monitoring and review activities reveal any material meetings of the committee were held in 2006 and all the members of the cause for concern or scope for improvement, it will make recommendations committee were in attendance.
to the Board on action needed to address the issue or make improvements.
The main role and responsibilities of the committee are to: The main activities of the committee in 2006 were as follows: review the structure, size and composition of the Board which includes with the assistance of reports received from management and the external an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, auditor, the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in knowledge and experience of the Board and make recommendations connection with the preparation of the Companys financial and related to the Board with regard to any changes: formal statements: consider succession planning for the directors and other senior executives assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to and make recommendations to the Board: identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks: identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates to fill Board monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial controls: vacancies as and when they arise: review the leadership of the Company to ensure the continued ability The committee does so by reference to: of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace: a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: recommend candidates for the role of senior independent director and b regular reports and presentations from the head of key risk functions, for membership of the audit and remuneration committees, in consultation internal audit and external audit: and with the Chairmen of those committees: and c the results of the system of annual self-certification of compliance make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment with key controls and procedures: of non-executive directors at the end of their specified term of office and the re-election by shareholders of any director under the retirement monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the internal by rotation provisions.
audit function, including any actions taken following any significant failures in internal controls: The committee performed the above activities as necessary in 2006. reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, the findings of its Following the disposal of the Hilton International hotels division in 2006, the work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: and structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge and experience reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
of the Board was reviewed.
Three new executive directors were appointed The external auditor reports to the committee on the actions taken to with effect from completion, two from amongst senior management with comply with professional and regulatory requirements and with best practice special knowledge and experience of the Ladbrokes businesses and the designed to ensure its independence.
The committee has agreed a policy third, the finance director, was recruited externally.
Two new non-executive on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, directors were appointed during the year.
In the case of the finance director the application of which it monitors.
The policy, which can be viewed at and the non-executive directors, a description of the role and capabilities the Companys website www.
com, specifies services that may required were prepared and suitable candidates were identified using not be provided and contains a level of cost at which committee approval an external adviser.
is required enabling the committee to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity Remuneration committee and independence are safeguarded.
Details of the remuneration committee, including membership, are set out Finance committee in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 56, which should This committee meets as required to deal with all routine business that be read in conjunction with this section.
excludes matters that are reserved to the Board or to another committee.
Any two directors can conduct the business of this committee.
Nomination committee The members of the committee are the Chairman of the Board and two or more independent non-executive directors of the Company.
The current members of the committee are Sir Ian Robinson Chairman appointed as a member and Chairman on 1 October 2001, Mr L P Lupo appointed 16 May 2003 and Mr N M H Jones appointed 16 May 2003.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Internal control a system of annual self-certification of compliance with key controls and The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control procedures was operated throughout the Group: operating throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the Group had an internal audit function, outsourced to Deloitte & Touche LLP, which reported to management on the Groups operations: and No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material to underpin the effectiveness of controls, it was the Groups policy to recruit misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to manage rather and develop management and staff of high calibre, integrity and with than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide appropriate disciplines.
High standards of business ethics and compliance the Board with reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally with laws, regulations and internal policies were demanded from staff be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year and up to The role of the audit committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the system 22 February 2007, the date of approval of this Annual Report, which accord of internal control is explained in the section Audit Committee on pages 37 with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and 38. published in September 1999.
The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal The Board has delegated the detailed design of the system of internal control control system.
The assessment takes account of all significant aspects to the executive directors.
of internal control including: risk assessment: the control environment The control framework and key procedures during 2006 were as follows: and control activities: information and communication: and monitoring.
the Group operates through two divisions European Retail and Remote Relations with shareholders Betting and Gaming.
Responsibilities for managing business risks arising There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional shareholders were defined by the Board: to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition presentations the executive directors met regularly together and with other senior are made twice yearly after the announcement of results, the details of which, executives to consider Group financial performance, business development together with Group financial reports and announcements, can be accessed and Group management issues.
Divisional management comprised via the Groups internet site.
The Chairman met in 2006 with several executives with appropriate functional responsibilities.
Divisional institutional investors and their representative bodies in addition to results management met regularly to manage their respective businesses: presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
Other directors are available the Board established corporate strategy and Group business objectives.
to meet the Companys major shareholders if requested.
Divisional management integrated such objectives into business strategies The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they have for presentation to the Board with supporting financial objectives: concerns which contact through the usual channels of Chairman, Chief there was an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Executive and Finance Director has failed to solve or for which such significant risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks and their financial contact is inappropriate.
implications were appraised by the responsible executives and endorsed by the divisional management.
This was an integral part of the strategic The Board receives a monthly market report from the Companys brokers planning process.
The appropriateness of controls was considered by the who also present to the Board annually.
A twice-yearly presentation is made executives, having regard to cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of to the Board reporting on the programme of meetings with major institutional risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks were shareholders.
Principles of ownership, corporate governance and voting considered at each regular Board meeting and were formally reviewed guidelines issued by the Companys major institutional shareholders, their and approved by the Board twice yearly: representative bodies and advisory organisations are circulated to and divisional budgets, containing financial and operating targets, capital considered by, the Board.
expenditure proposals and performance indicators, were reviewed The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects with its by the executive directors and supported divisional business strategies.
individual shareholders who have an opportunity to question the Board The Group profit plan was approved by the Board: at the Annual General Meeting.
For further information on our relations with reports on Group and divisional performances were regularly provided shareholders please refer to our Investor Relations Shareholder Review to directors and discussed at Board meetings.
Performance against both on pages 116 to 118. budgets and objectives, together with management of business risks, were reviewed with divisional management, as were forecasts and material sensitivities.
The Board regularly received reports from key executives and functional heads covering areas such as operations, forecasts, business development, strategic planning, human resources, legal and corporate matters: there was a group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
Major projects were reported on at each regular Board meeting.
Post investment audits were undertaken on a systematic basis and were formally reviewed by the Board twice yearly: key policies and control procedures including treasury, compliance and information system controls are documented in manuals having group-wide application.
Operating companies also used procedure manuals that integrated with Group control:
