Corporate governance report meetings, both routine and ad hoc matters Contents The principal corporate governance are considered.
Corporate governance report guidance that applies to companies listed considers and, where necessary, debates 2.
The Board with the UK Listing Authority is contained the group chief executives report.
2.1 Board composition in the 2003 Financial Reporting Councils This report includes, but is not limited to, 2.2 Directors independence Combined Code the Combined Code.
the following matters: 2.3 Communication with shareholders The Combined Code, which operates on budgets and strategy 2.4 Directors roles and training a comply or explain basis, incorporates, financial performance and forecasts 2.5 Company secretary amongst others, recommendations by the corporate activities 2.6 Board performance Higgs Review regarding the role of nonhuman resources 3.
Terms of reference executive directors, and the Smith Review shareholder and market matters.
Audit Committee which refers to audit committees.
Through 4.1 Internal control its commitment to the highest standards Any concerns that members of the 4.2 Risk management of corporate governance, the Board Board may have regarding the running 4.3 External auditors endorses and supports the essential of the company, or a proposed action, are 5.
Going concern elements of the Combined Code and, recorded in the Board minutes or, where 6.
Nomination Committee apart from a few limited exceptions as appropriate, in relevant committee minutes.
Remuneration Committee described below, believes the group has The Board ordinarily meets six times 8.
Board attendance fully complied with the Combined Code a year and is available to hold additional 9.
External appointments throughout 2006: where it has not, meetings when circumstances require 10.
Statement of directors an explanation has been provided.
The number of meetings responsibilities company has complied with the listing is judged to be suf cient to discharge the requirements of the UK Listing Authority Boards duties effectively.
In order to re ect as updated on 1 July 2005 and those the global spread of the group, and to of Euronext Amsterdam and the Dutch provide the Board with a higher level of Authority for the Financial Markets AFM visibility to the groups overseas operations, in the Netherlands.
Following the at least one of these meetings is normally companys acquisition of WM-data AB, held outside the UK, although no board the company undertook to have its shares meetings were held outside the UK in 2006. traded on the external list of the Nordic exchange.
As such, the company monitors 2.1 Board composition compliance with the rules and regulations The Board, which encompasses the of the Nordic exchange and the Swedish Audit, Remuneration and Nomination financial supervisory authority, Committees, is made up of directors from a Finansinspektionen, which authorises, variety of backgrounds who bring together supervises and monitors all companies a wide range of skills and experience to operating in the Swedish financial market.
By the end of 2006, In addition, the company complied with the Board comprised the chairman nonthe requirements of the Autorit des independent, five executive directors, Marchs Financiers AMF, the French five independent non-executive directors listing regulator, in respect of Unilog S. A. s and one further non-independent nonlisting on Euronext Paris between 13 October executive director.
2005 and 10 July 2006 when Unilogs On 10 January 2006 and 10 October shares were delisted.
2006, Didier Herrmann and Crister Stjernfelt were appointed as executive directors 2.
The Board following the acquisition of Unilog S. A. LogicaCMG is led by an effective and and WM-data AB, respectively.
objective Board, which is believed to be Consequently, no search consultancy or fundamental to the success of the group.
open advertising was undertaken in either The Board utilises a framework of prudent case.
On 1 January 2007, Nol Harwerth and effective controls in order to determine and Wolfhart Hauser were appointed as and manage the groups goals and the independent non-executive directors as necessary strategies and policies to achieve part of the companys ongoing succession these goals.
The companys values and the planning to ensure an appropriate balance standards set by the Board are upheld of skills and experience on the Board.
throughout the group with the assistance Helmut Mamsch, who has completed nine of the internal audit, quality assurance years as a director of Logica and and risk management functions.
At board LogicaCMG, will retire as deputy chairman 47 Governance Corporate governance LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued and senior independent non-executive agreement came into effect.
The company strategic issues and manages the Board director at the 2007 AGM and will be believes that all non-executive directors and shareholder meetings.
bring relevant experience and make valuable All executive directors have a set of Non-executive directors are appointed contributions to achieving its objectives.
objectives, which are updated annually for terms of three years and are proposed They do not act with self-interest and their or as required.
for re-election in accordance with the terms primary aims are to maximise shareholder Upon appointment all directors undergo of the companys Articles of Association.
wealth and develop the company in line an induction programme, which is The appointments of both Didier Herrmann with pre-determined strategic goals.
speci cally designed to their individual and Crister Stjernfelt were endorsed During the year, the company believes requirements.
In addition, they receive by the Nomination Committee before that neither the chairman, nor any of the appropriate training and ongoing updates receiving final approval from the Board.
non-executives, have held signi cant to improve their knowledge and skills and As mentioned above, Crister Stjernfelt, commitments outside the company to enable them to discharge their duties Nol Harwerth and Wolfhart Hauser have which would interfere with their ability to effectively.
The directors training been appointed since the last AGM and, effectively execute their responsibilities.
requirements remain subject to continuous therefore, will be proposed for election review.
Didier Herrmann, Crister Stjernfelt, at the forthcoming AGM.
The Nomination 2.3 Communication with shareholders Nol Harwerth and Wolfhart Hauser have Committee, in accordance with the The Board gives a high priority to all received tutelage on the remit and scope committees terms of reference and the communication with shareholders and of the business and have made, or will be companys Articles of Association has takes the opportunities afforded by the making, a number of guided site visits.
proposed Cor Stutterheim, Martin Read AGM and meetings with institutional and Seamus Keating for re-election at the investors to ensure a mutual understanding 2.5 Company secretary 2007 AGM.
Directors submitting themselves of the companys objectives.
All The company secretary is responsible for for re-election at the AGM have been subject shareholders are welcomed to the AGM providing regulatory updates to the Board to a rigorous, formal performance where developments in the business are and to speci c directors, depending upon evaluation.
They have demonstrated their explained and shareholders have the their participation in the various board commitment to the company and have opportunity to ask questions.
This information includes performed effectively during the year.
trading updates and surveys from investors Nol Harwerth and Wolfhart Hauser were com provides access for all shareholders and analysts.
He is also responsible for the appointed following the completion of to information about the company, timely dissemination of reliable and relevant a search undertaken by an independent including results presentations and all information to help ensure directors can executive search agency.
Financial reporting is discharge their responsibilities.
All directors candidates underwent a series of interviews presented in such a way as to present a have access to the company secretary and, and received a unanimous recommendation balanced and understandable assessment on request, to independent professional for their appointment from the Nomination of the companys position and prospects.
In addition, the company secretary Committee.
Copies of the directors terms The Board is made aware of is responsible for ensuring good and conditions of appointment are available shareholders views through face-to-face communication within the Board and on request from the company secretary.
meetings, presentations and feedback between senior management and the nonThe names and biographical details surveys.
If shareholders or investors do executive directors.
The company secretary of the directors, including those seeking not wish to follow the usual methods of acts as secretary to each board committee.
election and re-election at the 2007 AGM, communication through the chairman, can be found on pages 34 to 35. group chief executive or chief financial 2.6 Board performance of cer, the Boards senior independent The Board is subject to an annual 2.2 Directors independence director, Helmut Mamsch, and following performance review.
In 2006, the Board Throughout 2006, non-executive directors the 2007 AGM, Wim Dik are available and was appraised internally using a two-stage were considered independent under the can be contacted through the company process.
The first phase involved each Combined Code, with the exception secretarys of ce.
Helmut Mamsch and all director completing a comprehensive of Cor Stutterheim and Grard Philippot, other non-executive directors are regularly questionnaire, which covered areas according to provisions A.
3.1 updated on shareholder and market matters including, but not limited to, the following: respectively.
Both Cor Stutterheim and through internal brie ngs and the provision board composition Grard Philippot are believed to be of external analysis reports.
committee individual performance independent of character and judgement roles and responsibilities by the Board, but due to their previous 2.4 Directors roles and training logistics processes executive positions in CMG plc and Unilog There is a clear division of responsibility achievements S. A. respectively, they are not considered between the running of the Board by the non-executive director assessment independent by the Combined Code.
chairman Cor Stutterheim, and the board effectiveness.
Cor Stutterheim was last re-elected at the executive responsibility for the running 2005 AGM and Grard Philippots executive of the business by the group chief executive, Following this, interviews were conducted position within Unilog S. A. ended on Martin Read.
The non-executive chairman between individual non-executive directors 3 March 2006, when a consultancy liaises with the group chief executive on and the chairman, with the company 48 secretary in attendance.
Following consideration by the not only covered the areas dealt with by Through the terms of reference for the Board, certain matters may be delegated the questionnaires but also other key topics Board and relevant committees, the role, to a committee of the Board or an individual such as strategy, succession planning, duties and responsibilities of directors director.
Such matters may include the training and board relationships.
All and board committees are clearly fide ned.
approval of non-routine stock exchange information resulting from the questionnaire In keeping with the principles of the announcements and the grant of employee and interviews was compiled into a report Combined Code, the Board implements share options, allotment of company by the company secretary working in best corporate governance practice shares, application of the companys seal conjunction with the chairman, and will through these terms of reference.
and approval of banking transactions falling be presented to the Board in 2007.
The Board has resolved to establish within the companys treasury policy: The overall results of the 2005 board committees of the Board to be known day-to-day management of the company performance review, which were presented as the audit, nomination and remuneration is delegated to the executive directors.
However, the committees and reserves the authority Committees are able to, and do, invite following actions were taken to enhance to appoint or remove the committee directors who are not members to attend the future operation of the Board: chairman or any of its members.
Minutes of committee The Board and its committees have written meetings are sent, at their request, to additional material, including group terms of reference, which are normally those directors who are not members commercial reports and executive reviewed annually and may be found on the of the committee.
All committees, committee human resource reports companys website www.
com as well as directors individually, have are now routinely circulated to the nonor if a hard copy is required by application the means and resources to access executive directors.
Further information is to the company secretary.
Matters reserved independent professional advice at circulated to those who wish to receive it entirely for the Board include: the companys expense.
the number of scheduled board events, including dinners, for 2006 was increased financial matters of a material nature or 4.
Audit Committee to facilitate the operation and free ow value, including operating, budget and The companys Audit Committee is of information within the Board strategic plans, interim and preliminary constituted in accordance with the the Nomination Committee implemented statements, dividend payments, capital recommendations of the Combined its succession planning programme investment, acquisitions or divestments Code and its terms of reference re ect to address the needs of the Board and and the value of any goodwill write-off the Smith Guidance.
has started to address these issues relating to subsidiary company activities The committee is authorised by the during 2006 approval of sales contracts of a Board to investigate any activity within additional dedicated time was made material size its terms of reference and to seek any available for directors to discuss the adoption of any signi cant change information that it requires from any companys strategy pre and post in accounting policies employee of the company and its the acquisition of Unilog.
corporate administrative matters such subsidiaries and all employees are directed as the size and composition of the Board, Between meetings, the non-executive to cooperate with any request made by its committees and authorisation levels directors are regularly updated on the committee.
The committee has the annual report and accounts appropriate business matters and topical right to consult the companys professional resolutions to be placed before issues by the chairman and group chief advisers or, if it is not satis ed with the shareholders at an annual or executive.
In addition, the chairman holds advice received, seek further independent extraordinary general meeting, meetings with the non-executive directors, professional advice at the companys including any approval to be sought for without the executive directors present, expense in the furtherance of its duties.
the report of any sub-committees, and to consider any issues regarding the The committee believes that the skills, all stock exchange circulars and performance of the Board, its committees quali cations and commercial experience listing particulars.
of its members are appropriate for them The performance of the chairman The Board is responsible for a number of to perform their duties in accordance was reviewed, in his absence, by the group policies and practices including risk with the terms of reference laid down non-executive directors led by the senior management, ethics, and the environment.
The committee is normally independent non-executive director, Further detail on the latter two policies comprised of three or more independent Helmut Mamsch.
The outcome of this can be found within the corporate social non-executive directors and any two review was then reported to the chairman.
responsibility statement on pages 43 to 46. members constitute a quorum.
The All directors who have served on the Board Matters falling under the terms of committee meets at least four times a year.
for a period in excess of six years were reference are, ordinarily, dealt with at The Audit Committee, which comprises subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Where this is all independent non-executive directors, The Board has concluded, following the inappropriate, the company secretary is is chaired by Roger Payne and includes above review, that the Board and its subresponsible for ensuring that board members Angela Knight, George Loudon, Wim Dik committees operate effectively and that are advised of the issue.
Procedures for and Wolfhart Hauser.
Wolfhart Hauser each director contributes to the overall dealing with matters between scheduled joined the audit committee with effect effectiveness and success of the group.
board meetings are in place and detailed from 1 January 2007.
The Board considers 49 Governance Corporate governance LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued Roger Payne to have recent and relevant the Audit Committee reviewed the 2005 disclosure policy further details financial experience following his role full-year preliminary and 2006 interim regarding the policy can be found in the as a former financial director of a FTSE announcements corporate social responsibility statement, 100 listed company.
the review of the companys 2005 annual compliance with the companys code The chairman of the audit committee and report and accounts, in particular the of ethical conduct and any other special the committee itself meet at least four times financial overview, report of the directors, investigations falling under the terms a year with the external auditors.
The group financial statements including notes to of reference of the audit committee.
chief executive, chief financial of cer, group the accounts and relevant sections of the financial controller, other appropriate corporate governance report.
These were 4.1 Internal control specialist functional managers and the recommended for approval to the Board The annual report provides information head of internal audit attend the meetings the Audit Committee received reports on and an assessment of the companys at the request of the committee.
and updates from the companys internal business, operations, financial position In order to ful l its terms of reference, audit and quality assurance functions.
the committee reviews, challenges The internal audit and quality assurance The Board, through the audit committee, and approves, as the case may be, plans for 2006 were reviewed and is responsible for the groups system presentations or reports from senior approved.
These reports and updates of internal control and for reviewing management, consulting as necessary additionally covered the companys its effectiveness.
The effectiveness of with the external auditors.
During the management of its internal controls internal control was reviewed in 2006 and year, the committee had a satisfactory level the Audit Committee received reports found to be effective.
As such, procedures of dialogue with the companys auditors from the companys Risk Management have been established to ensure that the and did not nd it necessary to seek Cortex Strategy Committee RM CS C group can comply with the guidance on external advice.
During the year, the regarding the companys risk management internal controls issued by the Turnbull committee speci cally considered policy and programme of work.
The Committee and those guidelines included the following matters: committee and the Board also received in the Combined Code.
The Board has reports concerning speci c key risks reviewed the effectiveness of the systems the performance of its independent identi ed by the RM CS C. In addition, of internal control for the accounting year auditor,  LLP the impact of changing legislation and and the period to approval of the financial PwC including quali cations, expertise regulation, for example the changes statements.
No signi cant weaknesses and resource, effectiveness, objectivity in the fide nition of fraud, were considered were noted.
This review covered all material and independence, and recommended and where necessary, appropriate actions controls, including financial, operational to the Board their re-election as the were taken and compliance controls and risk companys independent auditors for 2006 the Audit Committee reviewed the management systems and is in accordance the review and approval of the scope of financial accounting of the companys with the Turnbull guidance.
The review did PwCs proposed fee and audit programme, fide ned bene t pension schemes not cover the activities of Unilog S. A. or the latter of which was considered in 2005 the Audit Committee considered WM-data AB prior to their acquisition on 13 and 2006.
The committee subsequently proposed amendments to the borrowing January 2006 and 13 October 2006 received and considered PwCs report, powers contained in the companys respectively.
However, action is being taken which summarised the conclusions from Articles of Association.
The proposed to ensure that the Unilog and WM-data their 2005 audit.
This report included amendments were approved and businesses have suitable internal controls feedback from PwC on the status of recommended to the Board for in place, which are consistent with the the companys control environment presentation to shareholders requirements of the Turnbull Committee and managements responsiveness at the 2006 AGM.
The new Articles and the Combined Code.
to audit results of Association were approved The companys approach to internal the appropriateness of the companys by shareholders on 17 May 2006 control is based on the underlying principle accounting policies, were also reviewed the Audit Committee undertook its of line managements accountability and approved annual review of the companys tax for risk and control management.
The the review and approval of the companys and treasury policies in accordance company has a risk-based approach ongoing policy for using PwC for nonwith its terms of reference.
Both to internal control, and management are audit work.
This policy is designed to policies were approved responsible for implementing, operating ensure PwCs independence and that the at each Audit Committee meeting, and monitoring the system.
It should company complies with best practice.
the committee reviews any matters, be understood that no system of internal An internal audit was also undertaken as required, relating to a number control can eliminate the risk of failure to ensure continuing compliance with of standing items including major to achieve business objectives or provide the companys policy acquisitions management and progress absolute assurance against material the selection of a new PwC signing concerning actions taken in response misstatement or loss.
This followed the retirement to the committees representations, The key elements of the control system of the incumbent partner in accordance relevant legal, reporting practices and in operation are: with best practice and PwCs own rules compliance developments, reports on rotation of partners led under the companys con dential 50 a highly structured, objectives-driven exercises a framework for managing risk by both the group financial controller and approach to ful l its core purpose and within the group.
Five practice panels company secretary before being passed goals in respect of sustained pro tability support the RM CS C and are responsible to the chief financial of cer who escalates and growth.
The strategic objectives for the areas of delivery, operations, the proposal, if appropriate, to the Audit of the group are captured in a strategic finance, human resources, and sales Committee where written approval must plan, developed by the Executive and marketing.
In conjunction with these be obtained.
Details regarding the Committee and approved by the Board, panels, the RM CS C is responsible remuneration of the external auditors which addresses revenue and associated for the regular evaluation of inherent risks in terms of audit and non-audit work costs and necessary investment.
This within the business and the identi cation can be found on page 81. plan then forms the basis of annual of controls to address them.
revenue and pro t targets for the The risk process identi es, evaluates 5.
Going concern operating units in the group and manages signi cant risks faced by the The directors, having made enquiries, the research and development and group.
These risks are first prioritised and consider that the company and the group capital investment programmes which then procedures and processes are put in have adequate resources to continue in are subject to a formal review procedure place to address them.
Risks are assessed operational existence for the foreseeable requiring that rigorous quali cation with reference to the achievement of the future, and therefore it is appropriate to criteria be met prior to each instance groups business objectives and according maintain the going concern basis in of material investment.
Evaluation to current market issues.
The continuous preparing the financial statements.
and post-investment appraisals are monitoring of strategic and operational performed by reference to detailed risks is the responsibility of the Board 6.
Nomination Committee business plans and line management respectively.
The Nomination Committee, which the monitoring regime established The risk process has been in place for comprises a majority of independent nonby the Board, through which the the year under review and up to the executives, is chaired by Cor Stutterheim performance indicators derived from the date of the annual report.
and includes Martin Read, Helmut Mamsch, strategic and annual plans are regularly Clearly fide ned delegation of Wim Dik and George Loudon.
This ensures that events responsibilities and authorisation levels committee reviews the balance of skills, which pose signi cant risk to the contribute to a comprehensive system knowledge and experience represented on attainment of the groups objectives which exists for controlling these risks and the Board and its committees and makes or signi cant control lapses are ensuring they are adequately addressed.
recommendations to the Board concerning communicated through a process of Core operating procedures common to all any adjustments deemed to be appropriate.
rapid escalation to senior management.
areas of the group are clearly documented.
Under its terms of reference the Unit performance is evaluated on a The internal audit and quality assurance Nomination Committee oversees the search monthly basis, and this evaluation functions perform regular audits and are and selection process of new directors and includes the addressing of identi ed part of the ful lment of line managements aims to do so within the parameters set control weaknesses and ensuring the risk management responsibilities.
Regular by the Combined Code.
In the event of conclusion of previously recommended internal control reviews are presented a vacancy on the Board, the committee corrective actions to the Audit Committee on at least a sixmay engage external independent business unit management throughout monthly basis.
Audit Committee papers professional advisers to assist in the the group and speci c corporate are circulated to all Board members.
A shortlist functional managers are required annually The risks the Board deems to be of candidates will be established and to complete a full self-assessment material are listed on page 54. selected candidates will be interviewed process.
With the completion of this and recommended for consideration by process, management can identify 4.3 External auditors the Board.
The Nomination Committee was and quantify the risks that face their The external auditors provide a convened on four occasions during 2006. businesses and functions.
This process supplementary, independent and Other directors are entitled to attend at also provides assurance as to risk autonomous perspective on the overall the invitation of the Nomination Committee.
and internal control management, integrity of those areas of the internal During 2006 the Nomination Committee financial controls and reporting, project control system which they assess in undertook a review of the succession control, treasury management and the course of their work.
Their findings planning for the Board, which also took information management.
are reported regularly to the audit into consideration the balance between committee.
The Audit Committee assesses independent and non-independent 4.2 Risk management the evidence provided to them through directors.
The Board is conscious that The Board recognises the need to various mechanisms and seeks to ensure it is not currently compliant with provision understand and control the variety of risks that the risk management process A.
3.2 of the Combined Code in respect of to which the company is exposed.
In order adequately addresses all of the major risks having a majority of independent directors.
to combat these challenges, the Board to the group.
To ensure auditor objectivity However, as a result of this review, oversees the RM CS C chaired by the and independence there is a stringent Nol Harwerth and Wolfhart Hauser were chief financial of cer.
Through the Audit process in place to approve non-audit appointed as independent non-executive Committee and the RM CS C the Board work.
Proposed work must be approved directors on 1 January 2007.
The committee 51 Governance Corporate governance LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance continued acknowledges that the appointment of two The committee believes that the skills, Nominations Committees during 2006. new independent non-executive directors quali cations and commercial experience All Board members attended the 2006 and the forthcoming retirement of of its members are appropriate for them to AGM, except Cor Stutterheim who was Helmut Mamsch will not bring the Boards perform their duties in accordance with the unable to attend due to illness.
composition within best practice guidelines.
terms of reference laid down by the Board.
In addition, an EGM was held in relation The committee will continue to work to The Remuneration Committees to the acquisition of WM-data AB, which address the balance between independent membership is comprised wholly of was attended by Cor Stutterheim, Martin and non-independent directors over independent non-executive directors and Read, Jim McKenna, Seamus Keating and the coming years.
In common with other members of the committee routinely meets at least five Board, the members of the committee times a year and is chaired by Angela Knight.
External appointments are provided with an induction programme Its other members are Nol Harwerth, Executive directors are permitted by the when they join the Board.
Ongoing Wolfhart Hauser, Helmut Mamsch and company to accept and maintain up to two training includes attendance at seminars George Loudon.
Nol Harwerth and non-executive appointments at any one and brie ngs by external advisers Wolfhart Hauser joined the Remuneration time.
Although we are currently compliant where applicable.
Attention is given, Committee with effect from 1 January 2007. with provision A.
4.5 of the Combined Code where relevant, to appropriate training The committees key role is to we were not compliant for the full duration programmes for new members determine the companys senior executive of 2006.
It is the companys policy that of the committee.
remuneration policy and levels of individuals are not generally permitted remuneration for the companys Executive to hold more than one non-executive 7.
Remuneration Committee Committee, the higher paid senior appointment with a UK FTSE 100 company.
The companys Remuneration Committee management, company secretary and head Martin Read had two non-executive is constituted in accordance with the of internal audit.
Details of the committees appointments with FTSE 100 listed recommendations of the Combined Code.
main functions and its remuneration companies for the first half of 2006.
Both The committee is authorised by the policies for directors and senior of these appointments were effective prior Board to investigate any activity within its management are set out on pages 55 to 65. to the publication of the revised Combined terms of reference.
The committee has the The group chief executive and the human Code: however he resigned from one right to appoint independent advisers and, resources director non-board member of these boards during the second half if it is not satis ed with the advice received, attend the Remuneration Committee of 2006. seek further independent professional meetings at the invitation of the committee.
Fees earned by executive directors advice at the companys expense in are retained by the relevant director, which the furtherance of its duties.
Board attendance re ects the personal risk assumed in such a formal review, Kepler Associates The table below shows the attendance appointments.
This remuneration is fully were appointed as independent advisers of directors at scheduled meetings of disclosed in the relevant companys annual to the committee.
the Board and Audit, Remuneration and report and accounts.
Board attendance Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum number of scheduled meetings per director 6 5 5 4 Cor Stutterheim 5 n a n a 3 Martin Read 6 3 n a 4 Jim McKenna 6 n a n a n a Seamus Keating 6 n a 5 n a Didier Herrmann 5 n a n a n a # Crister Stjernfelt 1 n a n a n a Helmut Mamsch 5 5 n a 4 Wim Dik 5 n a 4 3 Angela Knight 6 5 5 3 George Loudon 5 4 4 4 Roger Payne 6 n a 5 2 Grard Philippot 5 n a n a n a Does not include separate meetings held for the purpose of considering and approving the acquisition of WM-data AB.
In attendance for speci c discussions by invitation of the committee.
# Only one meeting was held in 2006 following the appointment of Crister Stjernfelt.
Statement of directors responsibilities select suitable accounting policies and hence for taking reasonable steps The directors are responsible for preparing and then apply them consistently for the prevention and detection of fraud the annual report and the group financial make judgements and estimates and other irregularities.
statements in accordance with applicable that are reasonable and prudent The directors are responsible for the law and International Financial Reporting state whether the group financial maintenance and integrity of the corporate Standards IFRS as adopted by the statements comply with IFRS and financial information included on European Union, and for preparing the as adopted by the European Union the companys website.
Legislation in parent company financial statements and with regard to the parent company the United Kingdom governing the and the report of the Remuneration financial statements, whether applicable preparation and dissemination of financial Committee in accordance with applicable accounting standards have been statements may differ from legislation law and regulations.
followed, subject to any material in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors departures disclosed and explained to prepare financial statements for each in the financial statements.
By order of the Board financial year.
Under that law the directors The directors con rm that they have have prepared the group financial complied with the above requirements statements in accordance with International in preparing the financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The directors are responsible for keeping as adopted by the European Union, and proper accounting records that disclose the parent company financial statements P Weaver FCIS with reasonable accuracy at any time the and the Directors Remuneration Report Company secretary financial position of the company and the in accordance with applicable law and 29 March 2007 group and to enable them to ensure that United Kingdom Accounting Standards the group financial statements comply with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 Accounting Practice.
of the IAS Regulation and that the parent The group and parent company financial company financial statements and the statements are required by law to give a report of the Remuneration Committee true and fair view of the state of affairs of comply with the Companies Act 1985. the company and the group and of the They are also responsible for safeguarding pro t or loss of the group for that period.
the assets of the company and the group In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: 53 Governance
