indd Proof: 10 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons Audit Committee Report Role of the Audit Committee Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is a formal Committee of the Board, and All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its of the Board, are eligible to become members of the terms of reference were reviewed by the Board in May 2004 Committee.
The Nomination Committee will recommend any and are compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code.
appointments or removals to the Board, which is responsible A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Companys for the composition of the Committee.
The Committee has at website and sets out the primary purposes of the Audit least three members, all of whom must be financially literate, Committee, which are: and any two members form a quorum.
The Committee To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial comprised the following members during the year and to the statements and announcements relating to its date of this report, except where stated otherwise: financial performance, reviewing significant financial Michael Hartnall an independent Director and a chartered reporting judgements.
accountant, Mr Hartnall was for 16 years until 2003 the To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys finance director of Rexam plc, a multinational manufacturer internal controls and risk management systems.
of consumer packaging where his responsibilities included To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function finance, internal control, risk management and corporate and review its material findings.
He was also a member of the Hampel To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, Committee which produced the first version of the including agreeing their remuneration and terms of Combined Code in 1998.
The Board has judged that he has engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and the significant, recent and relevant financial experience effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their necessary to chair the Committee.
engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately Roger Phillimore an independent Director and a member applied.
of the Audit Committee since May 1998.
Karen fide Segundo an independent Director and a The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within member of the Audit Committee since 29 April 2005. its terms of reference, access all Group documents and information, seek information from any Director or employee of Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 26 the Group and co-opt any resources including external and 27 of the Annual Review which accompanies this professional assistance it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
Each member receives an annual fee of 7,500 for However, the Committee has no executive function and its serving as a member of the Committee or, in the case of the primary objective is to review and challenge, rather than Chairman, 17,500.
In addition, Mr Hartnall receives a fee of assume responsibility for any matters within its remit.
Minutes 7,500 for attending meetings of the Companys Risk and of all meetings of the Committee save those recording private SHEC Committee.
These fees are included in the table of discussions with either the internal or external auditors are Directors remuneration on page 18 of this document.
All circulated to all Directors, and supplemented by a verbal members of the Committee are provided with appropriate update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board induction into the role of the Committee and the operation of its meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or terms of reference on appointment.
Access to training is improvement is required, and making recommendations where provided on an ongoing basis to ensure that members are able appropriate.
The Committee presents a summary of its to discharge their duties.
activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report, and the Committee Chairman attends all Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief general meetings of the Companys shareholders to answer Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President any questions on the Committees activities.
Finance, the Vice President Risk and Treasury and Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, The Committee assessed its effectiveness at a meeting in none of whom do so as of right.
The external auditors attend all September 2006.
To do so, members of the Committee, the Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held internal and external auditors and members of the with them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the management team who assist the Audit Committee in their presence of management.
The internal auditors attend all work all provided their opinions on the effectiveness of the Committee meetings held in South Africa and are similarly Committee, the flow of information, relationships with afforded private meetings with the Committee.
management and advisors and the appropriateness of the terms of reference.
All of these views were summarised into a Internal audit formal report to the Board by the Chairman.
The Committee Throughout the year, Ernst & Young acted as internal auditors to separately discussed the effectiveness of the Chairman of the Lonmin.
They were also commissioned to advise on the internal Committee in his absence, which also formed part of the control environment that would be required in order to report to the Board.
There were no matters arising which the successfully implement a new enterprise resource planning Committee or Board felt necessitated change.
The Committee sees this activity as wholly appropriate 31 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2006 www.
com Job: 7315 LONMIN REP front AW.
indd Proof: 10 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons Audit Committee Report continued for the internal auditors to perform.
A total of 22 assignments accounts: receive a report from the external auditors were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section following their review of the full year accounts: assessment of activities identified by both management and the Audit of any material exercises of judgement by management: Committee.
Internal audit reports are agreed with operational consideration of the going concern statement: review of management and then delivered to the president of Lonmin the annual reporting documents including the accounts Platinum and to the Chief Financial Officer, with material findings and consider whether to recommend the same to the and recommendations then summarised to the Audit Board: review of the independence, objectivity and Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in effectiveness of the external auditors and formulation of a addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
The Audit recommendation to the Board as to whether or not their reCommittee reviews the effectiveness of the internal auditors appointment should be proposed to shareholders: review of annually.
the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems during the year prepared by management: receive External audit an update on the work of the Risk and SHEC Committee KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin and any material matters arising: private meeting with the Group throughout the year.
The lead audit partner is based in external auditors.
London and supported by a second audit partner based in January: review of implications of adoption of IFRS, review Johannesburg.
The external auditors may not be engaged on of external auditors report on the IFRS restatement, any material non-audit work without the prior approval of the approval of restated financial statements under IFRS relating Audit Committee, who are responsible for the annual work plan to the previous financial year.
and fee budget for the auditors.
As policy, the Committee March in South Africa : review of matters arising from the would not allow the external auditors to perform any work that prior year audit: approval of scope of the external auditors they may subsequently need to audit, or which might otherwise proposed review of the interim accounts and the fees to be create a conflict of interests.
The Committee also monitors the charged: approval of the scope and fees for the external balance between audit and non-audit related spend to ensure audit of the full year accounts: review of non-audit services that auditor independence can be shown to be maintained.
to be provided by the external auditors: approval of the The Chief Financial Officer is permitted to engage the external terms of the external auditors engagement letter: review of auditors on matters that do not create such conflicts or the work of the internal auditors in the year to date and their otherwise compromise the audit firm subject to an annual fee principal findings: receive an update on the work of the Risk ceiling of $100,000.
and SHEC Committee and any material matters arising: private meeting with the internal auditors.
Non-audit fees incurred during the year amounted to $0.6 April: consideration of the letter of representation from million 2005 $0.5 million, equating to approximately 55% management to the external auditors relating to the interim 2005 56% of the total Group audit fee, and relate primarily to accounts: receive a report from the external auditors the provision of taxation advisory services and advice on following their review of the interim accounts: assessment of accounting practice, including the transition to international any material exercises of judgement by management: review financial reporting standards.
The Committee is satisfied that of the interim report including the accounts and consider the overall level of non-audit fees is not material relative to the whether to recommend the same to the Board: receive an income of the audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the update on the work of the Risk and SHEC Committee and nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with any material matters arising: private meeting with the the Companys policies in this area.
September in South Africa : review of the effectiveness of The Audit Committee appraised the expertise, resources, the internal auditors: review of the work of the internal independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their auditors and their principal findings: approval of the scope and focus of the internal audit programme and internal audit effectiveness as external auditors before reaching the recommendation to the Board that their re-election should be fees for the forthcoming financial year: further review and final confirmation of the external auditors plan for the year proposed to shareholders.
end audit: receive an update on the work of the Risk and SHEC Committee and any material matters arising: review Activities of the Audit Committee of the key risks facing the Group following top down and The Committee normally meets four times annually, although bottom up risk reviews: review of the renewal terms and one additional meeting was held in January 2006.
The scope of cover of the Groups insurance programme: review Committee reports its material findings to the next Board of the effectiveness of the audit committee and the meeting.
The principal business of these meetings is: Chairman, private meeting with the internal auditors.
November: consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the 32 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2006 Job: 7315 LONMIN REP front AW.
indd Proof: 10 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: Endorsement of the appointment of a new external audit partner Review of the impact of the Flint review of Turnbull Guidance Review of the Companys legal and regulatory compliance Updates on the OFR and Business Review requirements Consideration and approval of the Groups capital expenditure control procedures and further review of the capex reporting process.
Review of the audit findings on the financial and statutory management of the Lonmin Development Trust Review of matters reported to the independent ethics hotline Review of risk assessment report and work-plan for annual bottom up risk review Receive status report on implementation of enterprise resource planning system and the internal control environment Receive report from external auditors on controls reporting and interface with internal auditors Update from external auditors on incoming legislation in South Africa Approval of non-audit work undertaken by external auditor The Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of during time meetings Director in office attended Karen fide Segundo 5 5 Michael Hartnall 5 5 Roger Phillimore 5 5 This report was approved by the Board on 14 November 2006.
Michael Hartnall Committee Chairman 33 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2006 www.
