indd Proof: 10 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2006 Role of the Nomination Committee At a meeting in November 2005, the Committee reviewed the The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the effectiveness of the Directors seeking re-appointment at the Board, and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Companys 2006 AGM.
Sir John Craven, Michael Hartnell and Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were Karen fide Segundo were deemed to be able, committed and formally adopted by the Board in November 2005.
These are effective in their roles.
No such assessment could be made in available from the Company, and displayed on its website.
The respect of Sivi Gounden as he had only recently joined the primary purpose of the Committee is, in consultation with the Board, but the Committee had every confidence in his abilitites.
Chairman, to recommend any proposed changes to the The Committee also assessed its effectiveness and, in his composition of the Board, and to instigate and manage the absence, that of the Chairman of the Committee.
expressed were summarised to the Board.
There were no matters arising which the Committee or the Board felt Composition of the Nomination Committee necessitated change.
The Committee comprises Roger Phillimore chairman, Peter Godsoe and, from 9 November 2005, Sir John Craven.
All In August 2006 the Committee approved the offer of a fourth three members are non-executive Directors whom the Board term of office to Mr Phillimore, who did not attend this meeting considers to be wholly independent.
The quorum for a meeting in view of the subject matter.
of the Committee is two members.
Each member receives an annual fee of 5,000 for serving as a member of the The Committee met twice during the year.
Attendance at this Committee or, in the case of its Chairman, 7,500.
These fees meeting was as follows: are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 18.
Number of The Committee is supported by the services of the Company meetings held Number of Secretary, who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has during time meetings full access to the Chief Executive.
It is also empowered to Director in office attended appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional Peter Godsoe 2 2 advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work, and to co-opt Roger Phillimore 2 1 such resources as it requires to fulfil its duties.
Sir John Craven 1 1 Activities of the Nomination Committee This report was approved by the Board on 14 November 2006.
All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
A job specification is drawn Roger Phillimore up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, Committee Chairman an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants to ensure objectivity.
There were no new appointments to the Board during the year.
