LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2006 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES Information is normally provided to all Board served as Chairman of the Company since This statement describes how the Company members in the week prior to a Board meeting December 2001.
As stated on page 3, he will be applies the principles contained within the 2003 to enable the Directors to consider the issues retiring as Chairman and a Director at the end FRC Combined Code appended to the Listing for discussion and to request clarification or of his term of office as Chairman: he will Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Board regularly continue to chair the Board while his successor reviews the type and amount of information is recruited and will effect the transition to his The Board considers that it currently complies provided.
The Board plans to meet eight times a successor.
The Board continues to be year and, in addition, has a further meeting for The Board has concluded a review of its proactive in reviewing its practices and consideration of strategic issues facing the effectiveness.
The conclusions of the review effectiveness.
The Board also holds additional have been discussed by the Board as a whole meetings to meet ongoing requirements of the and will be kept under review during the DIRECTORS business, during the year, as appropriate.
At 2 March 2006, the Board consisted of the Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors and All Directors have access to the advice of the All Non-Executive Directors are appointed three Executive Directors.
Linda Wilding retired Company Secretary, who is responsible to the initially for a three year term and, after review, from the Board on this date.
Andrew Burns Board for ensuring that procedures are followed.
will normally be proposed for a further three resigned from the Board on 31 May 2005.
Nick The appointment and removal of the Company year term.
The Company will take into account Beighton joined the Board as Finance Director Secretary is reserved for the consideration of the balance of skills and experience on the on 1 August 2005.
The Chairman of the Board the Board as a whole.
In addition, there is an Board, their contribution and level of is Keith Hamill.
Stephen Thomas is Chief agreed procedure for seeking independent independence when considering whether to Executive and is responsible for the executive professional advice at the Companys expense.
extend their appointment beyond the initial leadership and co-ordination of the Companys three year term.
In exceptional circumstances, business activities.
David Longbottom is the On appointment to the Board, every Director is the Board may ask a Non-Executive Director to Senior Independent Director.
All Non-Executive provided with opportunities for appropriate remain for a further three year term.
NonDirectors, including the Chairman, are training to enable them to discharge their duties Executive Directors appointments are independent Directors.
The structure provides a as a Director.
It is the intention of the Company terminable on six months notice on either side.
balance whereby no individual or small group to create opportunities for the Senior can dominate the Boards decision-making.
Independent Director and Non-Executive The Board takes significant measures to ensure Directors to meet with significant shareholders, that all Board members are kept aware of both The Board is responsible for setting the Groups should this be requested by those shareholders.
the views of major shareholders and changes in strategic direction, the establishment of Group the major shareholdings of the Company.
This is policies and internal controls and the monitoring During the year ended 2 March 2006, the Nonachieved in a variety of ways, including: of operational performance.
It meets regularly Executive Directors met without the Chairman throughout the year and, in addition to the and provided feedback to the Chairman full feedback of shareholder reviews are routine reporting of financial and operational following that meeting.
The Chairman has also passed by the Chairman, Chief Executive and issues, reviews each of the trading divisions and provided feedback to the Non-Executive Finance Director who are primarily charged key functions in detail, including regular Directors.
with meeting shareholders: departmental functional reviews.
the Board receives regular feedback from the Board members are appointed by the Board on Companys stockbrokers: The Board has a schedule of matters specifically the recommendation of the Nominations changes in current shareholding are also reserved to it for decision and delegates certain Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman presented to the Board prompting powers to the Board Committees and to the and consists of the Non-Executive Directors, shareholder issues discussions: Executive Directors collectively and individually.
although the Chief Executive is invited to following interim and full announcements the The schedule of reserved matters is periodically meetings, as appropriate.
Board is circulated a full copy of analysts reviewed by the Board and presently includes reports and feedback from analysts and management of shareholder communication, The Companys Articles of Association provide shareholders on a no-names basis: annual budgets, strategic plans, approval of that one-third or the number nearest to butsignificant shareholder movements are major capital expenditure in excess of 1m and not exceeding one-third of the Directors shall notified to the Board by the Company significant financing.
stand for re-election at each AGM.
Furthermore, Secretary on an ad hoc basis: the Articles of Association require a Director toall Directors are invited to analysts briefings stand for re-election if they were not appointed and have access, if required, to the or reappointed at either of the last two AGMs.
Companys stockbrokers: and Nick Beighton will seek re-election at thethe Board has procedures in place for full forthcoming AGM.
The Board is proposing the agreement for all significant announcements re-election as Director of Keith Hamill, who has to the City.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 23 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The division is in writing as follows: The Chairman is responsible for: The Chief Executive is responsible for: Managing the effectiveness of the Board, ensuring information flows Ensuring effective planning and performance measurement and performance monitoring and facilitating contributions from Non-Executive Directors Maintaining and enforcing effective management controls, regulatory controls and risk management Liaising with the Chief Executive and providing support, a sounding board, advice and feedback Developing and maintaining effective performance management Supporting the strategic process and encouraging and supporting the Developing and maintaining effective organisational structure Chief Executive with the development of strategy Recruiting and managing senior executives and managing their Ensuring that there are effective processes for maintaining relations contract and performance issues subject to Remuneration with investors and, from time to time, attending investor meetings Committee responsibilities.
when appropriate or if requested Ensuring effective staff policies, succession and planning Providing feedback to Non-Executive Directors and encouraging their development and induction Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders, possible investors and providers of debt capital Chairing the general meetings and Board meetings and agreeing Board agendas External and internal communications in liaison with the Chairman on major issues Managing Chief Executive contract issues and appraisal, making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on the Implementation and monitoring of compliance with Chief Executives remuneration and proposals for Executive Board policies Director and senior executive remuneration Reliable reporting of the above to the Board Maintaining relations with Executive Directors and senior managers Supporting Company communications on major issues and fulfilling an ambassadorial role when necessary Chairing the Nominations Committee and leading the recruitment of the Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors BOARD COMMITTEES In accordance with the Combined Code and corporate governance best practice, the Board has established a number of committees.
All of the committees have written terms of reference, approved by the Board.
The Board met 13 times last year and the attendance of the Directors at the Board and committee meetings, where appropriate, are shown below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Number of meetings in the year Board Committee Committee Committee Keith Hamill 13 1 1 3 Stephen Thomas 13 Andrew Burns 3 Nick Beighton 8 Linda Wilding 922 Brendan McLoughlin 9 Martin Gatto 12213 Richard Brooke 9323 David Longbottom 11323 Including conference calls and quorum Board meetings.
Joined the Board on 1 August 2005.
Keith Hamill attended and chaired the meeting in the absence of Martin Gatto due to illness.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2006 CONTINUED The Non-Executive Directors, including the Committee obtains written confirmation on at the Companys activities.
The Audit and Risk Chairman, met once in the year ended least an annual basis of the independence of the Committees adopted a risk register and this will 2 March 2006. external auditors.
be regularly reviewed by the Risk Committee.
The Head of Risk will report at least twice a Keith Hamills second three year term of office The terms of reference for the Audit year to the Audit Committee regarding risk and comes to an end in December and he has Committee are available on the Companys internal control matters, and the full Board will indicated that he is not in a position due to website.
review risk and internal controls annually.
other interests to be available for a further term.
In accordance with the provisions of the The external auditors may attend all meetings of CAPITAL COMMITTEE Combined Code of Corporate Governance, the the Audit Committee and have direct access to The Capital Committee consists of Keith Hamill, Nominations Committee led by the Senior the Committee and its Chairman at all times.
who chairs the Committee, Richard Brooke and Independent Director, David Longbottom, will the Executive Directors.
The function of the be responsible for recruiting a new Chairman to REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Committee is threefold.
First is to oversee the the Board.
The Remuneration Committee is now chaired capital expenditure of the Company.
Second, by David Longbottom following Linda Wildings the Committee has responsibility for capital AUDIT COMMITTEE resignation as Chairman of the Committee and expenditure planning and budgeting.
Third, the The Committee is chaired by Martin Gatto and consists of all the Non-Executive Directors, Committee exercises a limited delegated also comprised, during the financial year, Richard except the Chairman.
The Chairman is invited function to approve capital expenditure up to Brooke and David Longbottom.
The terms of to attend all committee meetings.
The Directors an agreed limit.
Expenditure that exceeds the reference for the Audit Committee provide that Report on Remuneration is set out on pages 26 agreed limit is approved by the full Board.
At the Chairman is invited to attend all meetings to 30 of this Report.
present the Committee has delegated authority and the Chief Executive and Finance Director from the Board up to a limit of 1m.
are invited to attend meetings, as appropriate.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee is chaired by Keith LUMINAR LEISURE LIMITED The Committee meets during the year and Hamill and also consists of all the Non-Executive Luminar Leisure Limited provides support reports to the Board on all matters relating to Directors.
It monitors and reviews the membership services to the Groups trading subsidiaries.
the regulatory and accounting requirements that of and succession to the Board of Directors, and The Operating Committee of Luminar Leisure may affect the Group, together with the financial makes recommendations to the Board, inter alia, Limited consists of the three Executive Directors reporting and internal control procedures on the identification and recruitment of potential of the Company: Stephen Thomas, Nick including the annual and interim Financial Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Beighton and Brendan McLoughlin, the Groups Statements.
In addition, the Committee ensures Nominations Committee met 3 times in the year senior operators: Tony Marshall, Mark Lindsell that an objective and professional relationship is ended 2 March 2006.
The Committee met twice and David Crabtree and support centre maintained with the external auditors, with in relation to the appointment of a new Finance administrative function Directors: Liz Purdy particular regard to the nature and extent of any Director.
The Committee used external search HR, Steve Kester Purchasing and Harry non-audit functions they provide.
and select consultants to assist in this process.
The Willits Group Legal Services.
Committee approved the appointment of the new During the year ended 2 March 2006, the Finance Director, Nick Beighton, who joined the This Committee exercises the day-to-day Companys external auditors, Company on 1 August 2005.
The Committee also management function of the Company.
The  LLP, provided advice met once to discuss the possibility of appointing a Committee meets monthly and considers to the Company, including providing vendor due new Non-Executive Director to replace Linda amongst its standing agenda items, reviewing diligence reports to prospective purchasers of Wilding, and decided not to make an appointment capital expenditure, revenue expenditure not the Entertainment division, providing advice in for the time being.
authorised by the Executive Directors within relation to meeting requirements for the issue of their individual authority levels, regular reports a circular in the event that the Entertainment RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE from the Directors and a regular review of the division was sold and related tax and VAT The Board has reviewed the risk management strategic aims of the Company.
The fees paid to PWC for non-audit function and has agreed that the Risk services were 0.9m 2005: 0.6m including Management Committee in its previous form as INTERNAL CONTROL VAT.
The use of  LLP described in previous reports should be The Board is responsible for the ongoing for non-audit work was carefully evaluated by replaced by a new Committee charged with process of identifying, evaluating and managing the Audit Committee.
This work was done by management of the Companys risk profile and the significant risks faced by the Company, both separate teams and effectively segregated to the the systems and processes employed by the financial and non-financial.
This responsibility degree required for independence and Company to manage risk.
The Committee will includes clearly determining the control necessary to maintain the auditors objectivity.
be composed of the Executive Directors and environment and reviewing annually its The Committee views the independence appropriate senior management.
However, such a system can and objectivity of the Companys auditors has appointed a new Head of Risk, Mark Wyatt, provide only reasonable and not absolute as essential and ensures that who will be a member of the Committee and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
 LLP are not instructed who will be responsible for ensuring the on any issues which would prejudice this.
The management of this process across the range of LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 25 Assurance in relation to the design, operation The Health and Safety team have developed LICENSING and effectiveness of internal controls across the a Lead Authority Partnership Scheme with The Company undertakes regular ring rounds Companys activities and functions is provided Luton Borough Council.
This involved the of all councils and police divisions covering through a mix of mechanisms and processes council visiting several of the Companys the areas in which it operates and liaises which include: premises in different locations and extensively with other stakeholders including benchmarking statutory compliance in those local residents associations and industry INTERNAL AUDIT units.
This council is now used to bodies to ensure that any issues arising from The Company has an internal audit function.
demonstrate best practice to other councils the operation of its venues are identified.
This Internal audit carry out audits to assess the on a range of compliance issues.
process is supported by the use of incident adequacy and effectiveness of internal reports generated by venue management controls over the key operational risks in the LEGISLATIVE REFORM which are sent to appropriate area managers, Companys venues.
The internal audit The Company carries out reviews to assess management and executives.
function is headed by the Head of Risk and is the impact of legislative and regulatory responsible to the Finance Director but has change.
During the year, the Company The Company makes extensive use of CCTV direct access to the Chairman of the Audit continued to review its compliance with a and keeps records of CCTV coverage for Committee, if appropriate.
Following the wide range of new legislation, both in force one month.
Audit Committees recent review of the and coming into force, ranging from disability effectiveness of internal audit, a full discrimination to a smoking ban now reassessment of the remit, scope and introduced in Scotland to new noise resources of internal audit is being regulations to be introduced in 2008. undertaken with a view to ensuring that internal audit is in compliance with best TRAINING practice.
Specific training is provided to all employees to enable them to understand and manage Steps have been taken to ensure that there is risk in the Companys venues.
These an opportunity for any employees, in procedures are all embodied in awards confidence, to raise concerns with available to all employees on satisfactory management about possible impropriety in completion of the training programme.
The Company has established an internal hotline and intends to FINANCE undertake further reviews to increase The Finance Director provides regular awareness of the process including training financial information to the Board which for managers who may have to deal with includes key performance indicators.
Regular performance review meetings are HEALTH AND SAFETY held where management discusses business Each venue is regularly visited by Health and performance, risks to performance and Safety advisers.
In addition, to ensure internal control issues with Executive compliance with the Companys procedures Directors.
contained in the Companys Fire, Health and Safety and Food manuals, the Health and PUBLIC LIABILITY Safety team carry out regular audits of The Company continues to monitor and compliance and venue compliance proactively manage its public liability exposure performance is benchmarked against the both by the use of the Lite Patrol system Companys venues as a whole.
mentioned above and use of best practice in its venues regarding staff training and use of The Health and Safety function is responsible its external door supervisors.
for maintaining the Companys Lite Patrol system.
Lite Patrol is a computerised system The Company maintains appropriate which enables monitoring of internal controls insurance to cover risks, where appropriate.
and ensures that operational standards are as high as practicable during trading hours within our units.
The system proves due diligence where proof of inspection of key areas is provided by scanning discs mounted in various parts of the venue, usually by floor supervision.
