CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Combined Code compliance Anglo American is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and complied fully with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code throughout the year under review.
Role of the Board The Board of directors is accountable to shareholders for the performance of the Company.
Its role includes the establishment, review and monitoring of strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure and oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision details key aspects of the Companys affairs that the Board does not delegate including, among other things, approval of business plans and budgets, material expenditure and alterations to share capital.
Board composition and directors independence The Board is chaired by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
And the Chief Executive is responsible for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of the Group, supported by the Executive Board which the Chief Executive chairs.
Sir Rob Margetts is the senior independent non-executive director.
The Board has a strong independent element and currently comprises, in addition to the chairman, five executive and ten non-executive directors, eight of whom are independent according to the fide nition contained in the Code.
The independent directors are indicated within the table on the following page, and full biographical details for each director are given in the Annual Review.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company.
The Company is conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience on the Board, and to refresh progressively its composition over time.
In this respect, 2006 saw the appointment of Peter Woicke and Mamphela Ramphele as new independent non-executive directors.
Maria Silvia Bastos Marques retired from the Board at the 2006 AGM.
Cynthia Carroll was appointed to the Board as an executive director on 15 January 2007 and will succeed Tony Trahar as Chief Executive on 1 March 2007.
Tony Trahar will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
Chris Fay and Sir Rob Margetts will be proposed for re-election at the AGM in 2007.
Each has served two three-year terms as an independent non-executive director, having been first appointed during 1999, and hence their nomination for re-election has been subject to particularly rigorous review.
Chris Fay chairs the Safety and Sustainable Development Committee and serves as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Sir Rob Margetts is the senior independent non-executive director, chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Board values their wide experience and contributions, which remain robustly independent.
The last two years have seen the appointment of four new executive directors and three new non-executive directors, and the retirement of two executive directors and three non-executive directors.
The Company therefore considers its programme of progressively refreshing the composition of the Board remains effective.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 59 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Frequency of meetings The Board met nine times in 2006, the Audit Committee three times, the Nomination Committee seven times, the Safety and Sustainable Development Committees five times and the Remuneration Committee six times.
The Company estimates that the non-executive directors devoted around 25 days each to the Group during the year.
Directors attendance was as follows: Independent Board Audit S&SD Remuneration Nomination in terms of nine three five six seven Code?
meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings 4 Sir Mark Moody-Stuart n a All n a All All All A J Trahar No All n a All n a n a 1 C B Carroll No n a n a n a n a n a D A Hathorn No All n a n a n a n a R Mdori No All n a n a n a n a 2 S R Thompson No 8 n a n a n a n a 2 R C Alexander Yes 8 n a 4 n a n a D J Challen Yes All All n a All n a C E Fay Yes All All 4 All n a 3 R M Godsell No 7 n a 3 n a n a 2 Sir Rob Margetts Yes 8 All n a All 6 4 4 M S Bastos Marques Yes All n a 1 n a n a K A L M Van Miert Yes 8 All n a n a 5 3 N F Oppenheimer No 6 n a n a n a 6 3 4 F T M Phaswana Yes 7 2 n a All All 4 M Ramphele Yes All n a All n a All 3 P Woicke Yes 8 1 n a n a All 1 Cynthia Carroll was appointed with effect from 15 January 2007.
2 Sir Rob Margetts, Simon Thompson and Ralph Alexander were unable to attend one meeting due to communications problems.
3 Bobby Godsell, Nicky Oppenheimer, Fred Phaswana and Peter Woicke each missed one meeting, called at short notice, due to travel commitments.
4 Meetings attended prior to retirement or since appointment.
Directors training Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as well as signi cant experience in strategic, financial, commercial and mining activities.
Training and brie ngs are also available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account existing quali cations and experience.
Directors also have access to management, and to the advice of the company secretary.
Furthermore, all directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of Anglo American at its expense, although no such advice was sought during 2006.
Presentations are made to the Board by business management on the activities of operations.
Directors undertake regular visits to operations and projects and, in 2006, operations in Australia, China, the Middle East and South Africa were visited.
In addition, during the year directors attended a variety of courses seminars on subjects including international reporting standards, risk management, remuneration and pensions.
Following her appointment in January 2007, Cynthia Carroll undertook a wide-ranging programme to introduce her to the Groups operations across the world.
This programme included visits to operations in South America, Africa and Australia and intensive and detailed brie ngs from senior operational management.
Mrs Carroll was also briefed on, inter alia, legal and regulatory matters affecting the Group and the Groups corporate responsibility agenda.
Board effectiveness A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors is carried out annually by means of detailed questionnaires and interviews.
Once again in 2006, the results of the evaluation were collated and analysed by an independent reviewer from the London Business School and were presented to the Board.
The aim is to ensure continuous improvement in the functioning of the Board.
The analysis con rmed that the Board and its committees were functioning correctly.
As in past years, the evaluation process also included a review, chaired by the senior independent non-executive director without the chairman present, of the performance of the chairman.
As a result of this years evaluation the Board has agreed to enhance the existing programme of activities aimed at updating the directors knowledge and familiarity with the management and operations of the Group.
60 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Committees of the Board Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board delegates certain responsibilities to a number of standing committees the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Safety & Sustainable Development Committees.
The terms of reference for each of these committees are published on the Companys website.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for establishing and developing the Groups general policy on executive and senior management remuneration and determining speci c remuneration packages for executive directors.
The directors remuneration report, setting out Anglo Americans policy on executive remuneration, is set out on pages 66 to 83 of this Annual Report.
A resolution to approve the remuneration report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Remuneration Committee presently comprises: Sir Rob Margetts chairman, David Challen and Chris Fay, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
Safety & Sustainable Development Committee S&SD The S&SD Committee is responsible for developing framework policies and guidelines for the management of sustainable development issues, including safety, health and environment matters, and ensuring their progressive implementation throughout the Group.
The S&SD Committee normally meets three or four times each year, including a visit to an operation, and all directors and business unit heads are invited to attend Committee meetings.
Each business unit head makes a safety and sustainable development presentation to the Committee.
A separate 2006 Report to Society will be published in April.
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, their performance with regard to the Companys Good Citizenship principles and the operational dimensions of their social programmes.
The S&SD Committee presently comprises: Chris Fay chairman, Ralph Alexander, Bobby Godsell, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Bill Nairn, Tony Redman, Tony Trahar and Mamphela Ramphele.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new executive and non-executive directors, including making recommendations as to the composition of the Board and its committees and the balance between executive and non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required and engages external consultants to identify appropriate candidates, following a transparent procedure designed to ensure that new appointments comply with the principles laid out in the Combined Code.
During the year, the Committee managed the selection and appointment of Cynthia Carroll as the Groups new chief executive, and of Mamphela Ramphele as a new independent non-executive director.
The selection of candidates for appointment to the Board is based on merit, experience and a series of objective criteria set by the Committee at the inception of the process.
The Board, via the Nomination Committee, has taken steps to ensure that the human resources function of the Group regularly reviews and updates the succession plans of directors and senior managers.
The Nomination Committee presently comprises: Fred Phaswana chairman, Sir Rob Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Nicky Oppenheimer, Karel Van Miert, Mamphela Ramphele and Peter Woicke.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the majority of members and the chairman of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Audit Committee The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity of financial reporting and the audit process, and that a sound risk management and system of internal control is maintained.
In pursuing these objectives, the Audit Committee oversees relations with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function including their annual plan.
The Committee also monitors developments in corporate governance to ensure the Group continues to apply high and appropriate standards.
In ful lling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information and has examined documentation relating to the Annual Report, Annual Review, Interim Report, preliminary announcements and related public reports.
The clarity of disclosures included in the financial statements was reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the basis for signi cant estimates and judgements.
In assessing the accounting treatment of major transactions open to different approaches, the Committee considered written reports by management and the external auditors.
The Committees recommendations are submitted to the Board for approval.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 61 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The chief financial of cers of all operations have provided con rmation, on a six monthly basis, that financial and accounting internal control systems operate satisfactorily.
The Committee considered summaries of the signi cant risk and control issues arising from these reports.
The Committee also received regular internal and external audit reports on the results of audits at various operations.
Further information on risk management processes is provided in the internal control disclosure statement on page 63.
External audit Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence, which came into effect on 1 January 2003, is consistent with the ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices Board in December 2004.
A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack of control over non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
In essence, the external auditors independence is deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service which: results in auditing of own work by the auditors: results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee of the Group: puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group: or creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group.
Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary measures, namely: disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services: the prohibition of selected services: and prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of non-audit services where the cost of the proposed assignment is likely to exceed $50,000.
Disclosure entails reporting non-audit services to the Groups audit committees and inclusion of prescribed detail, i. e. the breakdown of fees paid to external auditors for audit and non-audit work in the Annual Reports of listed entities.
The policys fide nition of prohibited non-audit services corresponds with the European Commissions recommendations on auditors independence.
Other safeguards encapsulated in the policy include: the external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy based on best practice and professional standards in the UK.
The standard period for rotation of the audit engagement partner is five years and, for any key audit principal, seven years: any partner designated as a key audit principal of Anglo American will not be employed by Anglo American in a key management position unless a period of at least two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last relevant audit: the external auditors are required to periodically assess, in their professional judgement, whether they are independent from the Group: the Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work is suf cient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated: the Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors: and the Audit Committee has the authority to engage independent counsel and other advisors as they determine necessary in order to resolve issues on auditor independence.
The Audit Committee has satis ed itself that the United Kingdom professional and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation and employment of former employees of the external auditors have been complied with.
The Audit Committee considered information pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group in 2006 and concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the external auditors on all their relationships with Anglo American that might reasonably have a bearing on the external auditors independence and the audit engagement partner and staffs objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures, the Committee has concluded that the external auditors independence was not impaired.
The Audit Committee approved the external auditors terms of engagement, scope of work, the process for the 2006 interim review, the annual audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
Based on written reports submitted, the Committee reviewed, with the external auditors, the findings of their work and con rmed that all signi cant matters had been satisfactorily resolved.
The Committees assessment of the external auditors performance and independence underpins its recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2008.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint and determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 17 April 2007.
62 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Internal audit Internal audit functions operated in all of the Groups principal divisions in the period under review.
Following the completion of an independent peer review of the internal audit function early in 2006 the Board approved an overall strategy for internal audit which was implemented during the year under review.
The key outcomes were: With the exclusion of non-managed businesses, notably AngloGold Ashanti, fide Beers and select joint ventures, internal audit has been restructured to form an integrated Group internal audit function to strengthen internal audit independence.
Internal audit work is prioritised through an integrated, risk based and Group-wide assurance plan aimed at providing assurance inclusive of the Group and divisional audit committees assurance requirements.
Internal audit coverage within the divisions continues to be approved by the relevant divisional audit committees and each audit committee considers reports on the results of internal audit work performed.
Internal audit has been mandated to own the overall Group assurance plan and to coordinate assurance provided by other parties which may necessitate additional review and validation of assurances to the Board.
The revised internal audit arrangements will ensure comprehensive assurance coverage of key business risks by all service providers, including internal audit.
The new audit arrangements give internal auditors signi cantly enhanced prospects through improved career development opportunities, pooling of knowledge and dissemination of best practice.
The internal audit activities are performed either by teams of appropriate, quali ed and experienced employees, or through the engagement of external practitioners upon speci ed and agreed terms.
Assurance regarding the accuracy and reliability of mineral resources and ore reserves disclosures is provided through a combination of internal technically pro cient staff and independent third parties.
A summary of audit results and risk-management information was presented to the Committee at regular intervals throughout the year.
The Groups internal audit arrangements are independently reviewed every three years.
Composition The Audit Committee presently comprises: David Challen chairman, Chris Fay, Karel Van Miert, Fred Phaswana and Peter Woicke, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Board, in consultation with the Audit Committee chairman, makes appointments to the Committee.
The Board has determined that the Committee members have the skills and experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the chairman has requisite experience in accounting and financial management.
The Committee met three times during 2006, and on two of those occasions the members held discussions with the external audit partners and the head of internal audit in the absence of management.
Effectiveness of internal control and risk management The Executive Board, as mandated by the Board, has established a Group-wide system of internal control to manage signi cant Group risks.
This system, which has been operating throughout the year and to the date of this report, supports the Board in discharging its responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with the Groups diverse international operations is effectively managed in support of the creation and preservation of shareholder wealth.
Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identi ed from review of the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Internal control The system of internal control, which is embedded in all key operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved within the risk tolerance levels fide ned by the Board.
Regular management reporting, which provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an important component of Board assurance.
In addition, certain Board committees focus on speci c risks such as safety and capital investment and provide assurance to the Board on those matters.
The chief financial of cers provide con rmation, on a six monthly basis, that financial and accounting control frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The Board also receives assurance from the Audit Committee, which derives its information, in part, from regular internal and external audit reports on risk and internal control throughout the Group.
A process is in place within the Group to ensure that all internal audit findings are cleared.
The Groups internal audit function has a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors to ensure ef cient coverage of internal controls.
The Anglo American internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Executive Board and the Board on the effectiveness of the risk management process throughout the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 63 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal control, based on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates and joint ventures.
In those companies that are independently managed, as well as joint ventures, the directors who are represented on these organisations boards seek assurance that signi cant risks are being managed.
Risk management The Boards policy on risk management encompasses all signi cant business risks to the Group, including, financial, operational and compliance risk, which could undermine the achievement of business objectives.
This system of risk management is designed so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt their risk management processes to suit their speci c circumstances.
This exible approach has the commitment of the Groups senior management.
There is clear accountability for risk management, which is a key performance area of line managers throughout the Group.
The requisite risk and control capability is assured through Board challenge and appropriate management selection and skills development.
Managers are supported in giving effect to their risk responsibilities through policies and guidelines on risk and control management.
Continuous monitoring of risk and control processes, across headline risk areas and other business-speci c risk areas, provides the basis for regular and exception reporting to business management and boards, the Executive Board and the Board.
Key headline risk areas have been elaborated upon in the operating and financial review, set out on page 9 to 55.
The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide the Board with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
The reports to the Board, which are submitted at least every six months, include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives.
In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk management, the Board considers the key findings from the ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, management assertions and independent assurance reports.
The Board also takes account of material changes and trends in the risk pro le and considers whether the control system, including reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving its risk management objectives.
During the course of the year the Board considered the Groups responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
The Board is satis ed that there is an ongoing process, which has been operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull guidelines.
This includes social, environmental and ethical risks as highlighted in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment issued by the Association of British Insurers.
A detailed report on social, environmental and ethical issues will be included in the Companys Report to Society 2006.
Accountability and audit The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of Anglo Americans financial position and prospects.
Such assessment is provided in the chairmans and chief executives statements and the operating and financial review set out on pages 4 to 55 of this Annual Report.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and external auditors are set out on page 86.
As referred to in the directors report on page 56, the directors have expressed their view that Anglo Americans business is a going concern.
Whistleblowing programme Following adoption in December 2003 of a whistleblowing policy that is aligned with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, the Group has implemented a whistleblowing programme in virtually all of the managed operations.
The programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, is aimed at enabling employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a con dential basis, to raise concerns in cases where conduct is deemed to be contrary to our values.
It may include: actions that may result in danger to the health and or safety of people or damage to the environment: unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting controls, financial reporting and auditing matters: criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption: failure to comply with any legal obligation: miscarriage of justice: any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in our Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles or any similar policy: any other legal or ethical concern: and concealment of any of the above.
64 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 The programme makes available a selection of telephonic, e-mail, web-based and surface mail communication channels to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in Anglo American and its managed operations.
The multilingual communication facilities are operated by independent service providers who remove all indications from information received as to the identity of the callers before submission to designated persons in the Group.
During 2006, 181 reports were received via the global Speakup facility, covering a broad spectrum of concerns, including ethical, criminal, supplier relationships, health and safety, and human resource-type issues.
Reports received were kept strictly con dential and were referred to appropriate line managers within the Group for resolution.
Where appropriate, action was taken to address the issues raised.
Executive management Executive Board The Executive Board is responsible for implementing the strategies and policies determined by the Board, managing the business and affairs of the Company, prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources and establishing best management practices.
The Executive Board is also responsible for senior management appointments and monitoring their performance and acts as the Anglo American risk committee for the purpose of reviewing and monitoring Anglo Americans systems of internal control.
The Executive Board presently comprises: Tony Trahar chairman, Cynthia Carroll, Philip Baum, David Hathorn, Ralph Havenstein, Russell King, Ren Mdori, Tony Redman and Simon Thompson.
Cynthia Carroll will become chairman of the Executive Board on 1 March 2007.
Investment Committee The role of the Investment Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Executive Board, is to manage the process of capital allocation by ensuring that investments and divestments increase shareholder value and meet Anglo Americans financial criteria.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Executive Board and or the Board on these matters.
The Committee meets as required.
The Investment Committee presently comprises: Ren Mdori chairman, Simon Thompson, Tony Redman and Peter Whitcutt.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its key financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
The Investor and Corporate Affairs department manages the ongoing dialogue with these audiences and regular presentations take place at the time of interim and final results as well as during the rest of the year.
An active programme with potential shareholders is also maintained.
Any concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the Investor and Corporate Affairs department and analysts reports are circulated to the directors.
During the year there have been regular presentations and meetings with institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, continental Europe, Australia, the US and Canada to communicate the strategy and performance of Anglo American.
Executive directors as well as key corporate of cers host such presentations and meetings.
The chairman, senior independent non-executive director and other nonexecutive directors are also available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to raise.
The Companys website provides the latest and historical financial and other information on Anglo American.
Shareholders will have the opportunity at the forthcoming AGM, notice of which is contained in the booklet enclosed herewith, to put questions to the Board, including the chairmen of the various committees.
Facilities have been put in place to enable shareholders on the UK register to receive communications electronically rather than by mail and, for those unable to attend the meeting, to cast their AGM votes by electronic means including those shareholders whose shares are held in the CREST system.
Voting on each resolution to be proposed at the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather than by a show of hands.
The results of the poll will be announced to the press and on the Companys website.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 65
