com  Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance The Board is focused on achieving long term success for the directors and officers.
The directors and secretary have also Company through the pursuit of sound business strategies been granted qualifying third party indemnities following whilst maintaining high standards of corporate governance shareholder approval in July 2005. and corporate responsibility.
The following statement explains Kevin Lomax is Senior Independent Director and he is charged our governance policies and practices and provides insight with establishing a communication channel between the into how the Board and management run the business for the Chairman and the non-executive directors and ensuring that benefit of shareholders.
A detailed account of how we comply the views of each non-executive director are given due with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the consideration.
He is also an additional contact point for Code provisions can be found on the Companys website, shareholders if they have reason for concern which contact together with the terms of reference of the Audit, through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Remuneration and Nomination committees, at Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which contact is www.
The Board Kevin Lomax is retiring from the Board on 31 August 2006, On 1 April 2006 the Board comprised the Chairman, Deputy when he will have completed two three-year terms as a nonChairman, Chief Executive, two executive directors and six nonexecutive director.
On 1 September 2006, David Michels will executive directors, who are collectively responsible for the succeed Kevin as Senior Independent Director and Jeremy success of the Company.
A list of directors, with details of their Darroch as Audit Committee Chairman.
biographies and committee membership, is given on page 19.
The non-executive directors provide a wide range of skills and Paul Myners is Chairman and he is responsible for the working experience to the Group.
They bring an independent judgement of the Board, for the balance of its membership subject to on issues of strategy, performance, risk and people through Board and shareholder approval, and for ensuring that all their contribution at Board and committee meetings.
The Board directors are able to play their full part in its activities to deliver considers that throughout the year each non-executive director value to shareholders.
He ensures effective communication was independent in character and judgement and that they also with shareholders and that Board members have a sound met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The nonunderstanding of the views of investors.
executive directors have ensured that they have sufficient time Paul retires as Chairman following the Annual General Meeting to carry out their duties.
Any term beyond six years ie two on 11 July 2006 when Lord Burns succeeds him, having been three-year terms for a non-executive director is subject to appointed Deputy Chairman in October 2005.
Paul is also particularly rigorous review.
stepping down from the Board as, under the Code principles, Following the completion of the non-executive director and having served as Chairman, he can no longer be considered successional review, the Board has reviewed committee as an independent director.
membership to refresh the skills, knowledge and experience Stuart Rose is Chief Executive and he is responsible for all of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
aspects of the management of the Group and its business, Graham Oakley, Group Secretary, acts as a sounding board which includes developing the appropriate business strategies to the Chairman and individual directors.
He supports the for Board approval and achieving timely and effective Chairman in ensuring the effective functioning of the Board.
He ensures that, within the strategies agreed He is secretary of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination by the Board, appropriate objectives and policies are adopted committees.
He also heads the Corporate Governance Group, for each area of the business, that appropriate budgets are set which supports the Board and its committees and commercial and that their performance is effectively monitored with colleagues on a range of issues.
guidance or direction given as appropriate.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its The Chairman ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely decision.
It determines the overall Group strategy: creation, and clear information.
Directors are encouraged to update their acquisition or disposal of material corporate entities or assets: skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group through their development and protection of the brand: matters of public initial induction, on-going participation at Board and committee interest that could affect the Groups reputation: public meetings, and through meeting our people at store locations announcements including statutory accounts: significant and elsewhere.
Views of customers and shareholders are also changes in accounting policy: capital structure and dividend shared through Board presentations and individual meetings.
policy: operating plans and key performance indicators: The Board is regularly updated on governance and regulatory prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group matters.
There is an established procedure whereby any remuneration policy and Board structure, composition and director, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may succession.
take independent professional advice through the Group The Board receives regular updates on performance against the Secretary at the Companys expense.
This facility has been annual operating plan and investment decisions, together with extended to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination business reports and presentations from senior management.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Marks and Spencer Group plc 33 During 2005 06, in Clothing and Home, we worked hard on to review the systems of internal control and risk restoring our competitiveness, engaging with our suppliers to management: and improve value, styling and the amount of new and exciting to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys product across our ranges.
In Food, we continued to focus on external auditors and to review the effectiveness and offering high quality, innovative products.
This is beginning to objectivity of the audit process.
contribute towards improved customer perceptions, market share and financial performance.
At the same time, we extended our Items reviewed during the year include: General Merchandise store refurbishment trial and continued to open new mainline and stock commitment controls, Food new product development Simply Food stores.
Finally, improved service remained a priority.
process, business continuity planning and controls over We undertook our biggest ever customer service training advertising expenditures and payroll.
We also overhauled pay rates and improved career were reviewed and updated and a new Code of Ethics policy planning for customer assistants.
This will help us attract and was recommended to the Board and subsequently approved.
retain the best people for our business.
We are clear about what Private meetings have also been held separately with the we have achieved.
But we are equally clear that, at a time of external auditors and the Chief Internal Auditor.
From 1 May intense competition, there can be no let-up in the work to return 2005 Stuart Rose and Charles Wilson, supported by the the Group to profitable growth.
Finance Group, assumed the responsibilities normally performed by a Finance Director until the appointment of Ian Dyson on There have been significant changes to Board membership 27 June 2005. during the year and increased focus given to succession planning and leadership development within the Group The Audit Committee keeps under review the independence described on page 36. and objectivity of the external auditors,  LLP PwC, including the review of audit fee proposals and nonThe Board delegates to management, through the Chief audit fees.
An engagement and fee approvals process is Executive, the overall performance of the Group, which is in place which requires prior approval from the Committee for conducted principally through the setting of clear objectives and some engagements and excludes others.
In some cases, the effective performance coaching against business competencies, nature of the non-audit advice may make it more timely and building long-term management capability and ensuring that cost-effective to select PwC, who already have a good the business is managed in a fit and proper manner in keeping understanding of the Group.
PwC may also be appointed for with its values and business principles.
The business unit consultancy work, but only after rigorous checks, including directors report directly to the Chief Executive and give regular competitive tender, to confirm they are the best provider.
presentations to the Board on strategies and performance in PwC is also subject to professional standards which safeguard their relevant areas of the business.
the integrity of the auditing role performed on behalf of We are committed to our principles of Quality, Value, Service, shareholders.
Following shareholder approval at the AGM in Innovation and Trust.
Trust is earned from others as a result of July 2005 the Audit Committee now determines the level of our commitment to long-held values and the way we behave.
remuneration for the external auditors on behalf of the Board.
In April 2006, we re-launched our Code of Ethics which outlines Details of this years fees are given in note 4 to the financial the behaviours that M&S expects from employees whether they statements.
are dealing with our customers, suppliers, shareholders or colleagues.
It also includes guidelines on the environment, The Board is confident that the collective experience of the fraud and financial reporting and the management of conflicts Audit Committee members enables them, as a group, to act as of interest.
an effective audit committee and does not single out any one Committee member as having recent and relevant financial Committees of the Board experience.
With the appointment of Jeremy Darroch on The Audit Committee comprises Kevin Lomax Chairman, 1 February 2006 as a non-executive director and member of the Jeremy Darroch, Steven Holliday, David Michels and Jack Audit Committee, the skills and experience of the Committee as Keenan, all of whom are independent, non-executive directors.
The Committee also has access Anthony Habgood was a member until he resigned from the to the financial expertise of the Group and its auditors and can Board on 30 August 2005.
Jeremy Darroch joined the seek further professional advice at the Companys expense if Committee on 1 February 2006 and David Michels on 26 May required.
Kevin Lomax is retiring from the Board on 31 August 2006.
On 1 September 2006, Jeremy Darroch will succeed him The Remuneration Committee comprises Jack Keenan as Committee Chairman.
Chairman, Steven Holliday, David Michels, Kevin Lomax and Louise Patten, all of whom are independent, non-executive The committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight directors.
Anthony Habgood was a member until he resigned responsibilities.
Its primary functions are: from the Board on 30 August 2005.
Louise Patten joined the to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other Committee on 1 February 2006 and David Michels on 26 May information to shareholders: 2006.
Kevin Lomax will retire from the Board and the Committee on 31 August 2006.
Its primary role is to recommend to the 34 Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance continued Board the remuneration strategy and framework, giving due In July 2005, we announced the resignation of Charles Wilson regard to the financial and commercial health of the Company as executive director effective October 2005 when he became and to ensure the executive directors and senior management Chief Executive of Booker.
In August 2005, we announced the are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the resignation of Anthony Habgood with immediate effect after he Companys overall performance.
The remuneration of the nonhad to resume, unexpectedly, the Executive Chairmanship of executive directors is determined by the Chairman and the Bunzl in June 2005. executive directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors seek The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 40 to 48 as election at their first AGM following appointment and all directors required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. are required to offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
In addition, any director who is aged 70 or more is The Nomination Committee comprises Lord Burns Chairman, required to retire and seek re-election annually.
Jeremy Darroch, Steven Holliday, Jack Keenan, Kevin Lomax, David Michels, Paul Myners and Louise Patten, the majority of The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee whom are independent non-executive directors.
Paul Myners comprises Paul Myners Chairman, Lord Burns, Jack Keenan was Chairman of the Nomination Committee until the completion and Steven Sharp and seven members of management.
of the non-executive search in January 2006, which resulted Alison Reed was a member until her retirement on 30 April in the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Lord Burns will become Chairman in July 2006 following Habgood was a member until he resigned from the Board on Paul Myners retirement from the Board.
Louise Patten and Jeremy Darroch joined the provides the Board with an overview of the social, environmental Committee on 1 February 2006 and David Michels on 1 March and ethical impacts of the Groups activities.
Kevin Lomax will retire from the Board and the Committee opportunities are reviewed in areas such as sustainable raw on 31 August 2006.
Its role is to ensure that appropriate materials, responsible use of technology, animal welfare, ethical procedures are in place for the nomination, selection, training trading, employment policy, health and safety and community and evaluation of directors and for successional plans.
Customers are increasingly asking for more Board structure, size, composition and successional needs, information about CSR issues and in January 2006 we launched thereby keeping under review the balance of membership and Look behind the label to tell customers about the special the required blend of skills, knowledge and experience of qualities, many of them CSR based, that make Marks & Spencer the Board.
The continued progress we made in important In June 2005, following an external candidate search, Ian Dyson areas of CSR during the year was recognised by a number of was appointed Group Finance Director with responsibility for independent organisations.
We were included in the Dow Jones Finance and International, increased from end October 2005 to Sustainability and FTSE4Good indices and were ranked in the include IT, Logistics and Property.
In November 2005, taking top 20 companies in Business in the Communitys Corporate into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Responsibility Index with a score of 95%.
Further information is Company, Steven Sharp was appointed to the Board as given on page 18 and in our CSR report, available on our executive director with responsibility for Marketing, E-commerce website at www.
com csrreport2006, which and Store Design and Development, having joined the Company includes more detail on processes and references to the United in May 2004.
Appointments were made on merit and against Nations Global Reporting Initiative.
objective criteria to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Paul Myners led the search for new non-executive directors appointing an external firm to select candidates to meet successional needs, provide consumer, retail and financial experience and increase the Boards diversity.
A search specification was circulated to all directors who were invited to review the proposed candidate list.
A shortlist was then prepared for interview by Paul Myners and Stuart Rose and preferred candidates then seen by a wider group of directors, including Lord Burns.
As a result the following appointments were made to the Board: Jeremy Darroch and Louise Patten on 1 February 2006 and David Michels on 1 March 2006.
Marks and Spencer Group plc 35 The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings: Group Audit Remuneration Nomination CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Meetings held during the year 11 5 743 Paul Myners, Chairman 11 4 3 Lord Burns, Deputy Chairman appointed 1 October 2005 6 2 2 Stuart Rose, Chief Executive 11 Executive Directors Ian Dyson appointed 27 June 2005 9 2 Steven Sharp appointed 8 November 2005 5 2 Charles Wilson resigned 28 October 2005 6 Non-Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch appointed 1 February 2006 2 Anthony Habgood resigned 30 August 2005 3112 Steven Holliday appointed 15 July 2004 10 4 4 4 Jack Keenan 11 5743 Kevin Lomax 11 5 7 4 David Michels appointed 1 March 2006 2 Louise Patten appointed 1 February 2006 2 1 1 The Audit Committee has rescheduled its meetings, bringing forward its April 2006 meeting to January 2006.
As a result 5 meetings were held in 2005 06.
2 Steven Sharp has been a member of the CSR committee since 13 October 2004.
Steven Holliday and Anthony Habgood were unable to attend the AGM in Birmingham on 12 July 2005 due to previous personal commitments and business priorities respectively.
Alison Reed resigned on 30 April 2005 and did not attend any of the above meetings.
Performance evaluation Collective performance: Board and committees The collective performance of the Board and its committees has been reviewed through a combination of questionnaire responses, individual discussions and Board meetings to review findings.
Progress has been tracked during the year against an agreed action plan.
In March 2005 the Chairman consulted with the Board on the most appropriate way to evaluate performance.
Appreciating that time together as a new Board was relatively short and that its reconstitution was not yet complete, it was still felt that a rigorous review would be valuable.
The Chairman issued a detailed questionnaire to all directors who were invited to focus specifically on areas requiring priority action and to give honest and constructive feedback so that the Board could review its performance in a thorough and thoughtful manner.
The process was extended further this year to include external advice and support, together with individual discussions, allowing greater opportunity to explore issues on an individual basis.
A non-attributable executive summary focusing on the key themes was issued to directors in preparation for a Board discussion led by the Chairman.
A detailed plan was drawn up which identified a number of areas for action.
Timescales and owners were allocated to each subject matter and this action plan has been subsequently regularly reviewed by the Board at each Board meeting.
36 Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance continued The success of this years approach has been primarily due to: Accountability and audit The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise longcombining internal expertise with external support which term shareholder value whilst exceeding the expectations of our ensured that the review was M&S focused, leading edge in customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors terms of methodology and cost-efficient: recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and conducting one-to-one interviews, in addition accepting risk.
to a questionnaire: and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach keeping the process live after the survey, by integrating it to assessing risk and systems of internal control, and for into the Board meeting agenda and the Chairman receiving monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with regular updates on its progress.
a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational Given the changes to the Board over the last few months, and and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
with the pending change of Chairman, the Board has agreed The role of executive management is to implement the Boards that the 2006 07 evaluation take place in autumn 2006. policies on risk and control, and to provide assurance on Individual performance compliance with these policies.
Independent assurance is The executive directors continue to have their performance provided by internal audit, which operates across the Group, individually reviewed by the Chief Executive against set and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for objectives.
Remuneration is directly linked to these reviews and operating within these policies.
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Similarly, the Chief Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of Executive and Group Secretarys performance is reviewed by internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director reviews the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Chairmans performance against a set of previously agreed Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute objectives.
The performance of the non-executive directors is assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewed individually by the Chairman.
This years questionnaire has also invited each director to comment on the individual Risk assessment performances of themselves, other directors and the Chairman.
Every six months the Board reviews the Group Risk Profile the tool that drives risk assessment and action planning.
This is Succession planning and senior leadership development supported by an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and Following a period of significant business change, and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral agreement by the Board that management succession was a part of planning and review, managers from each business area key priority, the Board confirmed the need to review regularly and major projects: succession planning and leadership development at the top of the organisation.
It highlighted the need to raise the visibility of identify the risks to their plans: talent across the organisation and ensure appropriate career evaluate the risks using likelihood and impact: and development plans are in place.
document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
In January 2006 the Board reviewed: This process has been in place for the year under review and up current successional and development plans for individuals to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
It has at Reward Level G one level below Board : been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the succession potential for the teams that report into Reward Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Code produced Level G and information on our high potential individuals by the Financial Reporting Council.
from lower down the organisation with examples of development plans: and risk assessment and our future challenges.
Opportunities are provided for the non-executive and executive directors to meet with business unit directors and our high potential individuals on a regular basis.
Marks and Spencer Group plc 37 Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups long-term performance.
The risk assessment process is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The table below gives examples of activities across Group functions to mitigate against risks and uncertainties in achieving business goals.
Further information is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 and 2, the Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 7, the Operating review on pages 8 to 18 and the Financial review on pages 20 to 25.
Area Description Examples of Mitigating Activities Clothing & Home Delivering profit growth: Increased full price market share Increasing competition Open to Buy fast sellers, new fashion, improved Low price high volume retailing availability Economic factors Better product, better styling and better value Overseas sourcing offices Ethical sourcing of products Look behind the label Growth of international business Food Growing space and market share: Simply Food expansion Increasing competition New formats, eg Hot Food to Go, bakeries, cafs, Limited availability of sites restaurants Economic factors Product innovation, eg Marks & Spencer Cook!
Responsible food sourcing Look behind the label Response to customer expectations eg Eat Well and Fairtrade tea and coffee People Succession planning, retention Competitive pay and performance related bonus and capability Career progression for customer assistants, section and store managers Customer service training Our Service Style Buying Academy in head office Business Involvement Group BIG employee communication, consultation and involvement Stores Store modernisation and new Store refurbishment programme routes to market Improved store layouts Consistency of standards across stores Expansion opportunities at home and overseas Improved e-commerce offer Business interruption Business continuity planning Workplace recovery solutions Recoverability solutions for IT operations Business Recovery and Crisis Management plan preparedness Communications and business continuity planning with key suppliers 38 Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance continued Internal control action plans taken, or to be taken, to remedy any significant The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate failings or weaknesses identified: and strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
It has action plans in place to manage significant risks.
delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during The Board has put in place an organisational structure with the year and confirms the necessary action plans to remedy formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of identified weaknesses in internal control are in place.
There are also established procedures for planning, Internal audits work is focused on areas of priority as identified capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and for by the Group Risk Profile and in accordance with an annual monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
audit plan approved each year by the Audit Committee and by These include: the Board.
The Board receives a full report from the Chief Plans and policies Internal Auditor each year on the departments work and communication of the Groups strategy, objectives and findings and regular interim updates on specific issues.
targets: The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the annual operating and capital plans and future projections: financial statements.
They review and test the systems of operating policies and procedures: internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit clearly defined capital investment control guidelines: opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting of review of treasury policies by the treasury committee: and operational results and the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
review of social, environmental and ethical matters by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Relations with shareholders We are committed to on-going engagement with shareholders Competent people and have a well established cycle of communication based on appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to fulfil the Groups financial reporting calendar.
We promote the use of their allotted responsibilities: and electronic communication all Company announcements and presentations are made available simultaneously on our website, clear roles and accountabilities with regular performance together with webcasts of our financial results presentations.
The website also contains corporate and customer information Monitor and control which is updated on a regular basis.
There is a corporate governance section which includes our full response to the review by operating divisions of their plans with the relevant Code and terms of reference for the principal Board executive directors prior to submission to the Board for Committees.
Our registrars have also developed approval, including identification and assessment of risks: www.
co. uk an electronic service where monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial shareholders can check their shareholding, update their performance against budget: and personal details and elect to receive communications electronically, rather than through the post.
regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts.
We aim to make our Annual report documents as accessible as Regulatory update we can.
Audio and large print versions of our Annual review are reporting of accounting and legal developments: and available on our website, which now has improved navigation and accessibility.
This year we will advertise our half-year results regular briefings on latest best practice corporate rather than publishing a booklet to mail to shareholders.
The full governance to the Board.
statement will be available on our website for those wanting Assurance more detail.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the Our Investor Relations department is the focal point for contact effectiveness of the Groups: with institutional investors and maintains regular dialogue assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment throughout the year.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is activity and a report from internal audit on the process regularly updated on the views of our major shareholders, undertaken: following meetings they have with him, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director or Investor Relations.
In June, the Board systems of internal control, primarily through approving the receives a presentation from external advisers summarising the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the opinions of our principal shareholders following an extensive annual and interim financial statements and a review of the survey on their views after the release of our fourth-quarter nature, scope and reports of the external audit: trading statement in April.
Marks and Spencer Group plc 39 By the standards of large UK companies, a particularly high Many shareholders are also customers and in 2004 we sent percentage of M&S shares are owned by private investors.
The them Spend & Save vouchers for the first time, to use on full Company makes a special effort to ensure its communications price autumn merchandise in stores.
In 2005, we extended the and policies are appropriate to the needs of the private investor.
offer to nominees, increasing distribution from 300,000 to 400,000 investors.
The vouchers have proved very popular and The AGM is an important forum for us to meet with we will be mailing vouchers again in July, which will be valid in shareholders and it is normally well attended.
An exhibition is our stores in September and October 2006. hosted by our senior retail and business managers.
The Chairman and Chief Executive give business presentations We encourage shareholders to make their views known to us by which are made available on our website, together with the email at chairman@marks-and-spencer.
com, by telephone on questions and answers raised at the meeting.
Two of our non- 0845 302 1234 for customer queries and 0845 609 0810 for executive directors, Steven Holliday and Anthony Habgood, shareholder queries as we continue to develop our products were unable to attend the meeting in July 2005 due to previous and services.
personal commitments and business priorities respectively.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Board has taken the following steps to encourage increased For the year ended 1 April 2006 the Company complied with all shareholder voting and improve the integrity and effectiveness of the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate the voting process at the AGM: Governance, with the exception of: promoted your vote counts and encouraged the greater Audit Committee membership use of electronic voting: C. 3.1 The Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial invited three-way voting on resolutions: for, against and experience.
The Companys position is explained on page 33. vote withheld: and Annual General Meeting attendance conducted the vote by poll rather than by show of hands.
D. 2.3 The Chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the The result is more democratic as all shares represented at Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be the meeting are voted, added to the proxy vote lodged in available to answer questions at the AGM and for all directors to advance of the meeting and published.
The Companys position is explained on this page.
The indicative results are declared at the meeting, then Governance of the Groups pension schemes announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for all employees our website.
In July 2005, all resolutions were passed on a poll with an appointment date prior to 1 April 2002 and a defined conducted electronically.
Approximately 46% of the ordinary contribution scheme open to those joining the Company on or share capital was represented with votes for resolutions after 1 April 2002.
More information is given in the Remuneration ranging from 82% to 99%.
Report on page 43 and note 11 to the Accounts.
At this years meeting, in addition to routine resolutions, The Board of the Pension Trust Trustee Board manages the shareholders will be asked to vote on the: assets of the pension schemes which are held under trust renewal of shareholder authority to make donations to EU separately from those of the Group.
The Company and the political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure Trustee Boards have agreed a new trustee composition of two under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and independent trustees, five company representatives and five Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
Tony Watson retiring Chief Executive Company does not make donations to political parties.
of Hermes Pensions Management Limited has been appointed However, the legislation gives a wide definition of political as independent Chairman and Law Debenture Trust as donations and accordingly we seek authority on a independent trustee.
Elections are currently under way to precautionary basis: appoint the member representatives.
adoption of new Articles of Association, which have been reviewed against current legislation and best practice.
To make them more accessible they are in plain English and will be made available on our website: and amendment to the terms of the Performance Share Plan.
