Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 33 Corporate Governance Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination ethical values and professionalism in all its Committees.
The Board will also appoint activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, Committees to approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, during the year, the Group supports the highest standards in Board Committees were established to approve corporate governance.
It is committed to the bank documentation, changes to the pension principles of the Combined Code on Corporate scheme, dividend payments and preliminary and Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the interim announcements.
Financial Services Authority the Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Groups structure operates in such a way to ensure that all decisions are made by the most appropriate people in a timely manner that will Statement of Compliance with not unnecessarily delay progress.
The Directors the Code and management teams of each Group business Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, are responsible for those business entities.
They the Company has complied with the Code in all are tasked with the delivery of targets approved material respects, with the following minor by the Board and for the implementation of exception: Group Strategy and Policy across their businesses.. For the whole year, the Board had not The Board, at its meetings, reviews the financial approved written Terms of Reference of the results of the Group.
A detailed business plan and division of responsibilities between the annual budget is prepared for each operation in Chairman and Chief Executive.
During the conjunction with local management.
These are year these were set out in writing and then compared in detail with the monthly approved by the Board.
Executive Directors are required to comment on areas where The paragraphs below, together with the performance departs from current expectations.
Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages Any significant variances are discussed at Board 40 to 49 and the Report of the Audit Committee level and appropriate action taken.
set out on page 39 describe how these principles are applied within the Company.
These policies and procedures collectively enable the Board to make informed decisions on a range of key issues including those relating to strategy Directors and risk management.
The Board, balance and independence The Board is scheduled to meet nine times each The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, year with additional meetings called if required.
three Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors who are equally There is a Schedule of Matters Reserved to the responsible for the proper stewardship and Board which was reviewed during the year.
Taking into account Medium and long-term strategy is frequently the provisions of the Code, the Board has discussed and meetings are held with the determined that each of the Non-Executive Executive team, on a regular basis, to update the Directors is independent and free from any Board on business and strategic issues.
In relationships which could compromise their addition the Board is responsible for risk independent judgement.
The Board considers it is management and for the development of Group of sufficient size for the discharge of its duties and policies including areas such as health and safety, that the balance of skills and experience is social, environmental and ethical issues.
appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The biographical details of the Directors are on page 22.
The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, including Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 33 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 34 Corporate Governance continued The Board have appointed a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director who is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels had failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The attendance of the Directors at the Board and principal Board Committee meetings during the year are detailed in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings 1 meeting Mike Davies 9 n a 3 1 Andrew Allner 9 4 6 1 Ian Burrell 9 n a n a n a Graham Holden 9 n a n a n a Bill Husselby 9 4 6 1 David Sarti 9 n a n a n a Richard Scholes 9 4 6 1 Notes: Following the report of the Financial Reporting Council on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, in June 2006, Mike Davies was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee on 30 August 2006 and has attended all Remuneration Committee meetings from that date.
At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executives meet without the Chairman being present, at least annually, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Directors have the right to ensure that any concerns they raise about the running of the Company or a proposed action will be recorded in the Board minutes.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director did have any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers Insurance in respect of legal action against the Directors.
34 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 35 The Nomination Committee leads the process for Chairman and Chief Executive Board appointments and makes recommendations The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are to the Board about filling vacancies on the Board, held by separate individuals.
The Chairman is appointing additional persons to the Board and the primarily responsible for the leadership and effective re-election by shareholders of any Director under the working of the Board and ensuring that each Director, retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to Articles of Association.
He ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive The Nomination Committee does review the plans in and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive place for the orderly succession of Directors and senior managers.
has responsibility for all operational matters which include the implementation of the Group Strategy Other significant commitments of the Chairman and and policies approved by the Board.
During the year the Non-Executive Directors were disclosed to the the Board approved written Terms of Reference for Board before appointment and the Board is notified the Chairman and Chief Executive.
None of the Executive Directors hold a Non-Executive Directorship.
The Chairman at the time of his appointment did meet, and continues to meet, the independence The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive criteria set out in the Code.
Directors will continue to be available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
These letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment Appointments to the Board and Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will The Board has an established Nomination Committee have sufficient time to meet what is expected of to lead the process for Board appointments and to them.
make recommendations to the Board.
The Committee meets periodically and at least once each year.
The members of the Nomination Committee are Information and Professional the Chairman, who chairs the meetings, and the three Development independent Non-Executive Directors.
All Directors are supplied in a timely manner, with all relevant documentation and financial information to The Terms of Reference of the Nomination assist them in the discharge of their duties.
This Committee were reviewed during the year and are includes information on the Companys operational available on the Companys website at and financial performance.
These Terms of Reference Board receives a health and safety report.
explain the role of the Committee and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These Terms of Reference To ensure that Directors continually update their state that the Chairman would not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with his knowledge and familiarity with the Company, each own re-appointment or the appointment of a year a number of the Board meetings take place at successor to the Chairmanship.
operational sites around the Group.
These visits enable the Directors to meet local management and On a regular basis the Nomination Committee to keep them up-to-date with the business.
In undertakes an evaluation of the balance of skills, addition, each of the Directors has on-line access to knowledge and experience of the Board.
For a the Virtual Learning Resource Centre at Ashridge particular appointment it will use this evaluation to Business School, which provides Learning Guides prepare a description of the role and capabilities covering a broad spectrum of management skills and required.
This Committee would prepare the job competencies.
specification, including an assessment of the time commitment expected, when it next appoints a Chairman.
There have not been any Board appointments during the year.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 35 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 36 Corporate Governance continued New appointments to the Board have experience Following the evaluation in 2005 the Board set itself and skills to bring to the Company.
Training is offered objectives for the year.
Progress on these objectives to all new Directors.
The Chairman, together with the was reviewed in 2006, new objectives for 2007 have Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, ensure been agreed and a Board timetable has been set to that newly appointed Directors receive full, formal ensure that they are properly considered during the and tailored induction on joining the Board.
appointed Directors would be available to shareholders if a meeting were requested.
As set out above there is an established process to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent nature of that advice and Re-election those services.
The Company Secretary is responsible The Companys Articles of Association require for ensuring that Board procedures are complied Directors to retire and seek re-election at the first with and, through the Chairman, advises the Board on Annual General Meeting of the Company following Corporate Governance matters.
The Articles of Association appointment and removal of the Company Secretary include a provision for one third of the Directors to is a matter for the Board as a whole.
retire and seek re-election at each Annual General Meeting, ensuring that no Director serves more than The Board has an approved procedure for all three years without retiring and being proposed for Directors to take independent professional advice at re-appointment.
All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific duties.
terms subject to re-appointment and the Companys Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Performance evaluation The Nomination Committee has ensured that During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation performance evaluations for each Director who is of its own performance and that of its three principal retiring by rotation and being proposed for reCommittees.
A brief questionnaire covering the main election have been undertaken.
In the circular to areas of the evaluation was prepared by the shareholders, accompanying the resolution to reChairman and the Secretary and formed the basis of appoint a Non-Executive Director, the Board will one-to-one discussions between each of the explain why it believes that the Non-Executive Directors and the Secretary.
The evaluation Directors should be re-appointed.
The Chairman will questionnaire included questions about the confirm to shareholders when proposing reeffectiveness of the Executive and the Non-Executive appointment that, following a formal performance Directors.
evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment Feedback on the points raised was considered by the to the role.
The principal conclusions were that the Board should allocate more time to debating strategic Mike Davies and Bill Husselby are both serving their issues, that the Boards monthly KPI pack should be first three year term.
Richard Scholes and Andrew further reduced to focus on key indicators, that the Allner have each served one three year term, and Board should spend more time understanding the following a review during the year, were re-appointed Groups talent pool and succession planning issues in July 2006 each for a second term of three years.
and that the Remuneration Committee should refine Any Non-Executive Directors serving more than six its processes.
The exercise was viewed positively by years will be subject to a particularly rigorous review.
the Directors and it will be undertaken again during the course of the current financial year.
36 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 37 risks through a Risk Committee which reports Directors Remuneration directly to the Board.
Details of the Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages The Risk Committee comprises the Executive 40 to 49.
The report details the Companys Directors.
The Risk Committee is responsible for compliance with the Codes requirements with identifying, evaluating and managing any regard to remuneration matters.
The Terms of material risks which might threaten the Groups Reference of the Remuneration Committee were business objectives.
In undertaking this work, it reviewed during the year and are available on the receives regular risk reviews and an annual risk Companys website at www.
assessment report carried out by the head of each business unit.
From this information, the Risk Committee has compiled a Register which Accountability and Audit identifies the Groups key risk areas, the Financial Reporting probability of those risks occurring and the impact they would have.
In addition, the Risk In presenting the Annual and Interim Financial Register identifies the controls that exist to Statements the Directors seek to present a manage and, where possible, minimise or balanced and understandable assessment of the eliminate those risks.
The Risk Register is used to Groups position and prospects.
The Directors direct action programmes to test the have adopted the going concern basis in effectiveness, including independent audit preparing these Financial Statements.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee on The respective responsibilities of the Directors behalf of the Board.
and the Auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of In addition to the major risk review process, the Directors Responsibilities and the Auditors Group operates under an established internal Report on pages 31 and 50 respectively.
control framework, the key features of which include clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures and a comprehensive Internal Control budget and monthly reporting system.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its The Board has carried out an annual assessment effectiveness.
Throughout the year under review of the Groups risk management and internal and up to the date of this report the Board has control system for the year to 31 December 2006 operated procedures to meet the requirements of by considering reports from both the Audit the Code as set out in the Internal Control Committee and the Risk Committee.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for Information relating to the Audit Committee is set the Groups system of internal control and for out in the Report of the Audit Committee on page reviewing its effectiveness.
The report details the Companys compliance designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the with the Codes requirements with regard to audit risk of failure to achieve business objectives and matters.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit can only provide reasonable and not absolute Committee are available on the Companys assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 37 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 38 Corporate Governance continued working days before the meeting.
It is the Companys Going Concern practice to propose separate resolutions on each The Directors consider, after making appropriate substantially separate issue including a resolution enquires at the time of approving the Financial relating to the Report and Accounts.
Statements, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational A presentation is made on the progress and existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, performance of the business prior to the formal that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis business of the meeting.
in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee normally attend the Annual Relations with Shareholders General Meeting and are available to answer Dialogue with Shareholders questions.
All Directors normally attend the meeting.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the The Board welcomes questions from shareholders Companys continued success.
The Board who have an opportunity to raise issues informally or accordingly places great emphasis on maintaining formally before or at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with For each resolution the proxy appointment forms major shareholders to discuss the Groups provide shareholders with the option to direct their performance, strategic issues and shareholder proxy vote either for or against the resolution or to investment objectives.
Reports of these meetings withhold their vote.
The Company will ensure that and any shareholder communications during the the proxy form and any announcement of the results year, are reported to the Board.
of a vote will make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the The regular announcements of significant events calculation of the proportion of the votes for and affecting the Group and the frequent updates on against the resolution.
current trading emphasises the Boards commitment to keeping the Companys investors informed of All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded developments affecting the Group.
For each resolution, after the vote has does, periodically, arrange site visits for investors.
been taken, information on the number of proxy votes for and against the resolution, and the number From time to time, and when appropriate, the Nonof shares in respect of which the vote was withheld, Executive Directors will attend meetings with major are given at the meeting and are made available on shareholders.
The Board regularly receives copies of the Companys web site at www.
The analysts and brokers briefings.
Company will continue this practice and will, in future, also include information on the number of The Annual and Interim Reports, together with the shares in respect of which proxy appointments have Marshalls website, are the principal means of been validly made.
communication with all shareholders during the year.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting is despatched to shareholders, together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special business, at least 20 38 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006
