Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:47 Page 39 Report of the Audit Committee The Board has an established Audit Committee.
These assignments form part of a much Each of its members is an independent Nonwider programme of independently audited Executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that this aspects of the Groups operations.
Committee includes members that have recent and relevant financial experience required by the Code.
The Audit Committee has, during the year, reviewed Richard Scholes, who is the Chairman, is a the arrangements by which employees, and other Chartered Accountant.
Andrew Allner, who sits on people working for the Company, may in the Committee, is also a Chartered Accountant and confidence raise concerns about possible was, during the year, the Group Finance Director of improprieties in matters of financial reporting or RHM plc.
The Company does have a Serious Concerns Policy Whistleblowing Policy which is The main role and responsibilities of the Audit available to all employees.
It is displayed on notice Committee are set out in written Terms of boards and on the Companys intranet.
The policy Reference which were reviewed during the year sets out the procedure for employees to raise and are available on the Companys website at legitimate concerns about any wrong-doing www.
without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal.
If the concern cannot be dealt with by their The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for immediate manager there is a process to refer it to making a recommendation on the appointment, the Group Human Resources Director or to the reappointment and removal of the external auditor Group Company Secretary.
The policy was to the Board, to put to shareholders for their reviewed during the year and the Audit Committee approval at the Annual General Meeting.
It keeps was satisfied that arrangements are in place for the under review the scope and results of the audit, its proportionate and independent investigation of cost-effectiveness and the independence and such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Any work awarded to the external auditors with a value in excess of 25,000, The Audit Committee does monitor and review the or in aggregate a value exceeding 50,000 in any effectiveness of internal control activities.
During financial year, other than audit and tax compliance, the year it did consider whether there was a need requires the specific approval of the Audit for an in-house internal audit function.
Where the Committee perceives that concluded, having reviewed the current process the independence of the auditors could be where firms of external accountants other than the compromised, the work will not be awarded to the Companys auditors carry out regular internal external auditors.
Details of amounts paid to the audit assignments of a financial and systems external auditors for audit and non-audit services in nature, that this was the most effective means of 2006 are analysed in Note 4 on page 64.
The managing the internal audit function.
aggregate amount paid to other firms of accountants for non-audit services was 181,000 The Report of the Audit Committee has been 2005: 225,000. approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: This Committee reviews the Interim and Annual Financial Statements before submission to the Richard Scholes Board and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Chairman of the Audit Committee internal control system.
9 March 2007 The Audit Committee reviews the planned Internal Audit Programme.
The results of all assignments have been reported to the Audit Committee during Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 39
