WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 15 W&DB ACCOUNTS 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the provisions of the responsible for running an effective Board and concentrating Combined Code on the strategic development of the Group.
The Chief Executive The Group is committed to achieving high standards of is responsible for implementing strategy and running the corporate governance and to integrity and high ethical business in accordance with objectives agreed by the Board.
standards in all its business activities.
The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code The Executive Committee, comprising the five Executive throughout the period, and to the date of the report, except Directors, meets weekly to discuss operational matters.
The with regard to Code provision A3.2 which provides that Board is briefed on the decisions reached by the Committee at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should including those involving risk management, health and safety comprise independent Non-executive Directors.
The report issues and property transactions below a specified financial sets out below how the principles of the Combined Code authority limit.
have been applied by the Group and the reasoning behind the composition of the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also to independent legal advice.
Structure On appointment to the Board all Executive Directors receive During the period, the Board comprised of four Non-executive appropriate training: all Directors receive a full induction Directors, one of whom was the Chairman, and five Executive programme covering briefings and meetings with divisional Directors.
Between the end of the period and the date of this directors and senior management.
The Group maintains report, the Board appointed a further Non-executive Director, insurance cover in respect of legal proceedings and other Rosalind Cuschieri.
The Non-executive Directors all possess claims against its Directors and officers.
a wide range of skills and experience.
All exercise independent judgement although David Thompson, the Chairman, cannot All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the be considered independent under the requirements of first opportunity following appointment and to re-election at the Code because of his past experience as a long serving intervals not exceeding three years.
Peter Lipscomb, Deputy Chairman, is are appointed for terms of three years.
Details of the Directors appointed as the senior independent Non-executive Director.
retiring by rotation and offering themselves for re-election His experience and business interests ensure his independence this year are set out in the Directors report on page 24. from management which is also the case for the other independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board consider The Board considers that all Directors bring an individual that the current balance of Executives and Non-executives judgement to the Boards deliberations in respect of strategy, is such that no one individual or small group can dominate performance, resources, key appointments and standards of the Boards decision taking by virtue of the strength of conduct.
All Non-executive Directors are considered by the experience and character possessed by the independent Board to be free from any business or other relationship Non-executives.
This is further strengthened by the process which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
by which matters are disclosed to, and decisions are made During the year the Chairman conducted a review of the by, the Board.
Board, its Directors and Committees through consultation with each Director and discussion with the senior The Board met 11 times during the year in the normal course independent Non-executive Director.
The Non-executive of business and additionally as required.
Each Director Directors also met, without the Chairman being present.
attended all of the Board meetings.
It has a formal schedule of This was to consider the governance of the Board and the matters reserved to it for approval ensuring that it considers Group, including the performance of the Chairman.
Each of strategic, financial, organisational and compliance matters these matters was considered to be satisfactory.
Where with timely information provided in advance of each meeting.
relevant, and not in respect of their own performance, the The Board approves major acquisitions, disposals and capital Chairman and the Chief Executive were involved in evaluating expenditure projects, all financial statements and the annual the composition of the Board and Committees, the meeting budgets.
All Directors receive within their Board papers process, information and training, leadership, effectiveness details of the Groups performance against budget and and compliance with the Combined Code.
The results of the individual reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director review were reported back to the Board and a number of and divisional managing directors.
The Board also receives action points concerning procedural matters have been formal presentations from senior managers on a regular incorporated into next years meetings agenda.
The Board basis, which provides an opportunity for formal discussions is satisfied with its own composition, meeting process and with them.
There is a strategy away-day to enable the full minute recording, and that of its Committees.
In addition, Board to focus on each division and consider the Groups the Chairman met informally with the Non-executive opportunities, threats and operating issues.
Directors on a number of occasions during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is 34 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 16 W&DB ACCOUNTS 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the period the Chairman, David Thompson, continued the Groups whistleblowing policy and annually reviews its arrangements under this policy.
The Board consider that his appointment as executive director of Ragleth Limited Ragleth : the controlling shareholder of Anglia Maltings both Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson have recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the requirements of Holdings Limited.
He has no controlling interest in Ragleth the Combined Code.
The Committee met five times during and so the transactions between the Group and Ragleth are the period to review the results of the full year audit, approve not Related Party Transactions as defined by IFRS.
David the interim results, consider the risks to the Group, review Thompson has continued his appointment on the basis the performance of the external auditors and provide of Ragleth allowing him sufficient time to devote to the guidance on the internal audit strategy.
During the period the chairmanship of W&DB.
Committee also received a presentation on and regular updates regarding the new reporting requirements under Board Committees IFRS, providing a basis for consideration and decision making.
All Board Committees have agreed terms of reference All Committee members attended all meetings.
which have been updated to meet the provisions of the Combined Code and are approved by the Board.
They can The Group uses the external auditors for non-audit services be found on the Groups website at www.
such as taxation advice and planning, and corporate activity.
When appointing advisors for non-audit work the Group Nomination Committee considers the value for money, experience and objectivity The structure, size and composition of the Board, together required and in this respect it has used other accounting with Board appointments and re-elections are considered by firms for non-audit work.
The Committee are satisfied that the Nomination Committee which comprises David Thompson where the external auditors are used for non-audit services Chairman, Miles Emley, Ralph Findlay, Lord Hodgson and their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
No Director is involved in any decision reaching this conclusion the Committee considered a report regarding his own re-appointment.
The Committee met five prepared by  LLP prior to the year times during the period, with all Committee members end, reviewing the potential threats to their objectivity and attending all of the meetings, to consider re-elections and independence in the light of the ethical standards issued by the balance of the Board and specifically during the period to the Auditing Practices Board.
Where a potential risk was discuss the appointment of a Non-executive Director.
The identified the Committee was satisfied that the safeguards appointment of Rosalind Cuschieri as a Non-executive that the external auditors had put in place were sufficient to Director was made without the use of external recruitment prevent a threat to their independence and objectivity.
The Nomination Committee approached our external advisors to request recommendations for the position.
Communication A short-list was drawn up from those recommendations and The Group recognises the importance of maintaining a strong those of the Committee members.
Informal discussions and relationship with its shareholders as a key priority with the meetings then took place with the applicants, and having annual report and interim statement as the principal media regard to their relative experiences and background, the used, as well as regular institutional presentations, covering Committee recommended the appointment of Rosalind reports on trading and market conditions and strategy.
During the year the Chairman and the senior independent Non-executive Director offered to meet with the Companys Remuneration Committee major shareholders to discuss governance and strategy The Remuneration Committee comprises Peter Lipscomb and develop an understanding of shareholder views.
All Chairman, Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson with Ralph shareholders also have access to the senior independent Findlay in attendance if required.
It is responsible for Non-executive Director if they have specific corporate agreeing contract terms, remuneration and benefits, governance issues which cannot be resolved through including bonuses, for Executive Directors and senior the usual channels of communication.
It is also responsible for the granting of LTIP awards and share options.
It met five times during the period to The Group also maintains a website, www.
co. uk, to review pay and the performance of Directors in conjuction with provide up to date information on its operations and brands.
bonuses and consider the granting of share based incentives.
The Companys share price and all Company announcements All Committee members attended all meetings.
are available on this site together with slides for analysts and investor presentations.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley Chairman, The annual general meeting, which is regularly attended by Lord Hodgson and Peter Lipscomb.
It monitors the approximately 300 shareholders, provides an important relationship with the external auditors, agrees their scope of forum for communicating directly with shareholders and the work and fees and reviews the results of the full year audit opportunity for shareholders to raise questions with the and the interim results each year.
It also assesses annually Board.
At the annual general meeting the Chairman the cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the announces the results of proxy voting on each resolution external auditors.
The Committee also has responsibility for after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
35 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 17 W&DB ACCOUNTS 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management The principal elements of the system of internal control, There is a weekly review by the Executive Directors, and which is designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to annually by the Board, of the risks faced by the Group.
identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which the Group is These reviews cover strategic, operational and compliance exposed, include: risks.
Day-to-day control is implemented by the divisional management teams which report to the divisional a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, responsibility and accountability: managing directors.
a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities with the annual Group budget being formally There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and approved by the Board: and managing the risks facing the Group at the weekly Executive a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major Directors meetings, the monthly divisional management investment, divestment and strategic plans including meetings and at the monthly briefing meetings with the capital expenditure, disposals and development senior management group.
Risk and litigation issues are programmes.
also reviewed regularly by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Significant treasury, cash management and investment matters are received and approved by the Board.
The Group operates a risk management programme whereby key business risks are formally defined, reviewed, and The internal audit function has co-ordinated on behalf of assessed at regular intervals by the managers.
This process the Board an annual review of the effectiveness of all the is performed in conjunction with the Group Risk Manager key controls of the business.
This includes a Group-wide and overseen by the Director of Risk and Treasury.
An certification that internal controls are in place and operated essential part of the process involves ensuring that all the effectively.
The internal audit function has carried out key risks have clear ownership.
Managers are required to additional work on selective controls as well as aligning identify the key internal controls for each of the risks they internal audit projects to verify the certification of are responsible for and to identify the control owners.
Where weaknesses have been identified by risks identified are classified and recorded in a Group risk the managers, information has also been provided on the register.
The results are reported to the respective divisional plans to improve such controls.
The results of the exercise managing directors who in turn prioritise the key risks are summarised and an overall assessment reported to the for their management teams.
The risks identified cascade Audit Committee.
The review confirmed that there is a clear through to an assessment of the significant corporate risks link between the key risks of the business and the controls which are in turn reported to the Audit Committee and used to manage those risks.
Ownership of the controls by the Board.
the managers within the business is well defined and there are no significant weaknesses that require remedial The internal audit strategy takes into account the key actions to take place.
business risks of the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control The Groups system of internal controls can only manage environment in mitigating the risks to an acceptable level.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The risk management programme provides vital information objectives and can, therefore, only provide reasonable and to ensure that the internal audit strategy provides sufficient not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
coverage of the critical areas of internal control.
Health and safety Internal control The management of health and safety matters is based on The Group has complied with the Combined Code provisions the Health and Safety Executives management system HSG on internal control.
The Executive Directors examine, and 65.
All areas of the Group have been risk assessed and report to the Board as necessary, the procedures required to appropriate control measures implemented.
Regular Safety implement in full the guidance on internal control produced Committee meetings are held throughout the Group and by the Turnbull Committee.
In addition, the Board has taken independent experts such as the Royal Society for the account of the Association of British Insurers guidelines on Prevention of Accidents ROSPA and insurers are used.
socially responsible investment and in this respect the Finance Director chairs a quarterly meeting of the Groups Auditors Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as independent Auditors of The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal the Group.
controls and for ensuring that information supplied to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Groups position.
It has carried out these responsibilities throughout the year.
