CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Introduction Chairman and Chief Executive The Board remains committed to ensuring that high standards of In accordance with the Code the division of responsibilities between corporate governance are maintained throughout the organisation.
the Chairman and Chief Executive has been clearly established, set A number of changes to the composition of the Board of Directors out in writing and agreed by the Board.
have been made over the past 18 months and together with the The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, strengthening of Board procedures and policies it is believed the ensuring its effectiveness, setting the agenda and advising and Company is now operating within best practice guidelines.
Compliance with the Combined Code the Code The Chairman does not sit on any Board Committees.
From 1st The Board confirms that it has complied throughout the period August 2005 Geoff Brady was appointed as Deputy Chairman and relating to this report with the provisions of the Code except as follows: until 31st December 2005 spent two days a week advising on From the beginning of the financial period to the 7th July 2005 not strategic and operational issues in addition to assisting the all the members of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were Chairman with a number of his Board related duties.
Following the appointment he reduced his commitment to one day per week.
of additional independent Non-Executive Directors, Geoff Brady The Chief Executive is responsible for managing day to day activities and Bill Shannon, on 29th April 2005 and the retirement of Charles in accordance with agreed strategy and objectives, preparing Thompson and John Westwood at the 2005 Annual General budgets and operating plans and ensuring that risk management Meeting the above Committees are now comprised of entirely and control procedures are maintained.
independent Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code.
Senior independent director The Board has appointed Robert Shrager as the Senior The Board Independent Director and he provides a communication channel Structure between the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the other NonThe Board, at the year end, comprised the Chairman, five NonExecutive Directors to ensure that the views of all the Board are Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
During the period given due consideration.
Charles Thompson and John Westwood retired as Non-Executive Directors.
Geoff Brady and Bill Shannon were appointed as NonHe attends formal results presentations and is available to meet Executive Directors on 29th April 2005 and Martin Reavley was shareholders at such events or by prior appointment to discuss any appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 8th July 2005. issues or concerns.
Based upon the guidelines contained within the Combined Code all of He is also available to meet shareholders, upon request, to address the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent.
Prior any issues of concern that have not been resolved through the to his retirement, Charles Thompson did not meet the independence normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
criteria, as he had been a Director for more than nine years.
On 1st March 2006 it was announced that Robert Shrager would Biographies of the Directors and details of length of service are not seek re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Robert shown on page 9. will have been a Director for over 8 years by this time and it was agreed that it would be appropriate for him to step down and for The Executive Committee, headed by the Chief Executive, is Geoff Brady to be appointed as the Senior Independent Director responsible for the day to day management including business from 5th July 2006. performance, implementing agreed strategy, approving budgets and capital expenditure up to the Committees authority level.
The Following the announcement that the Chief Executive, John King Executive Committee comprises the Chief Executive, Finance would be leaving the Company on 31st December 2006 the Director, Retail Director, Logistics Director, Buying and Merchandising Chairman, Geoff Brady and Robert Shrager met with a number of Director Home, Buying Director Clothing, Merchandising Director shareholders to discuss the compensation arrangements that had Clothing and IT Director.
been agreed and the Boards plans for identifying a suitable replacement.
A number of Board Committees have been established to support the Board and the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Director independence Nomination Committees can be found on the Companys website, Charles Thompson retired from the Board at the conclusion of the www.
A report from each of these Committees is set Annual General Meeting in July 2005 and up until his retirement was out later in this report.
not deemed to be independent as he had been a Director since 1991.
18 The Chairman does not participate in any discussions or decision Board and Committee agendas and supporting papers are making relating to any matter in which he has any potential conict distributed one week in advance of each meeting and where a of interest.
Director is unable to attend a meeting his comments are relayed in advance to the Chairman of the relevant meeting.
This ensures that As referred to earlier, all the Non-Executive Directors are now all Directors are aware of Company operations and current issues considered to be independent and comply with the guidelines on and are in a position to monitor them effectively.
Directors are able to request that items be included on agendas Board appointments and raise any other issues at meetings.
The Board regularly request The general conditions of appointment of a Non-Executive Director that Senior Executives attend and present items and each year a are available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The letter separate strategy meeting is held.
sets out the time commitment which is currently not less than one day per week for the Deputy Chairman and two days per month for The Non-Executive Directors met regularly throughout the year the other Non-Executive Directors.
It is accepted, however that at including meetings with the Chairman, where the Executive Directors certain times the time commitment may increase and the Directors were not in attendance.
Periodic meetings are also held with have agreed to be exible in their commitment to the Company.
members of the Senior Executive to discuss specic business related issues and also as part of a new Directors induction process.
Directors are initially appointed for a specified term, being the period to the next Annual General Meeting after appointment and then In addition to Board papers the Non-Executive Directors also receive subject to re-appointment at that meeting for a further period ending weekly and monthly performance reports together with other not later than the Annual General Meeting held three years later.
The business related reports, as appropriate.
Board, upon recommendation by the Nomination Committee, Phil Dutton, the Finance Director acted as Company Secretary until considers whether it is appropriate that further three year terms are Simon Waite was appointed on 7th July 2005.
All Directors have offered at the end of the third and sixth year from initial appointment access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose and consider the results of the annual performance evaluation.
removal and appointment is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The At the end of the sixth year a rigorous review is made of the Directors Directors are entitled to obtain independent advice where needed at contribution to Board deliberations whilst acknowledging the need the Companys expense.
Any unresolved concerns expressed by a to regularly refresh the Board.
Those Directors who have served the Director regarding the running of the Company would be minuted Board for more than nine years, and who under the Code are not accordingly and the Chairman would notify the Board of any considers to be independent, will be subject to annual review by unresolved issues which caused any Director to resign.
Directors indemnities Meetings attendance Throughout the year and as at the date of this report, the Articles of Association contained provisions for the benefit of Directors and Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Ofcers of the Company indemnifying them out of the assets of the Meetings held in the year 9 4 6 8 Company to the extent allowed by law against liabilities incurred by John Hargreaves 9 9 them in the course of carrying out their duties.
John King 9 9 Special resolutions to amend the Memorandum and Articles of Phil Dutton 9 9 4 4 Association will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to Lord Harris 6 9 0 1 5 8 update the above provisions on indemnities to Directors and Robert Shrager 8 9 4 4 6 6 7 8 Ofcers following a change to the law last year.
Charles Thompson 4 4 1 1 4 4 3 3 Geoff Brady 8 8 3 3 1 2 7 7 Matters reserved to the board The Directors believe that it is essential that the Company should be Bill Shannon 7 8 2 3 3 3 led and controlled by an effective Board and a number of changes Martin Reavley 5 5 2 3 2 2 have been made to strengthen the Boards composition over the John Westwood 4 4 0 1 4 4 3 3 past 18 months.
In attendance at the Audit Committee by invitation From date of appointment The Board has adopted a formal statement of its powers and To date of retirement responsibilities and has a schedule of matters reserved to it which Shows the maximum number of meetings that could be attended include: 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED business objectives and strategy: Self assessment questionnaires were prepared for the Board as a whole, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the major items of capital expenditure: Nomination Committee, the Non-Executive Directors and the financial policy: Chairman.
The questionnaires were prepared based upon best results announcements: practice and tailored to the Companys individual procedures share capital and dividends: and targets.
establishment and terms of reference for Board Committees: The results of the Board and Committee evaluations were acquisition and disposal of businesses: compiled by the Company Secretary who prepared a summary appointment, re-election and removal of Directors: and report which was considered by the Board in March 2006.
A monitoring the financial and operating performance of the number of issues were highlighted and appropriate remedial Group.
Board Meetings are held on at least 8 occasions each year, one of The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman, which focuses upon the Companys long-term strategy.
During the evaluated the Chairmans performance during the year and year a number of Board Committees were also held to approve provided feedback to him.
The evaluation process also incorporated various procedural issues.
the views of the Executive Directors.
Directors induction and professional development The Chairman carried out a separate evaluation of each of the NonUpon appointment an induction process for new Directors exists to Executive Directors performance during the year, or since provide new Directors with training that is tailored to the individuals appointment and this was discussed with them individually.
As part of this process a Director will visit the head ofce in Skelmersdale and meet with a number of managers as well The Chief Executive and Finance Director are both subject to an as visiting stores and Company sites.
This provides the opportunity annual appraisal of their performance as Executives and this is to meet all levels of colleagues and better understand the conducted by the Chairman and Chief Executive, respectively.
Companys operational and market inuences.
Shareholder contact During the year the Directors held a meeting at the Corby distribution The Company encourages regular contact with shareholders and centre and toured the facility to get an improved understanding of its has an established communication cycle.
Formal presentations, impact upon the Companys distribution network.
covering financial performance, governance and strategy are held following the announcement of annual and interim results for As part of the Boards processes the Directors are updated on the institutional investors, fund managers, principal shareholders and Companys financial and operational performance through regular analysts.
sales reports and monthly accounts as well as progress reports on key projects and initiatives.
Individual meetings are also held with the above on a periodic basis at which visits are arranged to the Companys head ofce and The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that all Board stores to provide a better understanding of the Companys business procedures are observed and advising the Board on legal and operations.
governance matters and supplies all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice developments.
The views of institutional shareholders, together with external broker reports, following results presentations, are circulated to the Directors A Corporate Governance Manual has been prepared for each of to provide them with external views on the Companys performance.
the Directors and is updated on a regular basis.
This sets out the Boards policies and procedures together with its compliance, or All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman otherwise, with the Code and the policy on the provision of of the Board Committees, usually attend formal results presentations independent advice.
and the Annual General Meeting.
An opportunity is provided at these gatherings for all stakeholders to speak, formally and informally, to Board, committee and director evaluation the Directors.
In compliance with the Code the Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its In accordance with best practice and the Combined Code the Committees and individual Directors.
Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 twenty working days before the meeting and the results of the proxy taking into account cross functional risks.
The key risks and voting are given after each resolution has been voted upon.
mitigation strategies are discussed at least annually with the Audit Separate resolutions are proposed on each agenda item and Committee.
individual resolutions are proposed relating to the Report and Bi-annual Balance Sheet reviews have been carried out, including a Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and appointment and review of the underlying accounting policies and support for the re-appointment of Directors.
Shareholders are also provided with significant balances.
The findings and management responses are the opportunity to abstain from voting on the Form of Proxy.
circulated to the Audit Committee, senior management and external An investor relations site has been incorporated within the Companys auditors.
website and a range of information is available upon the Companys A formal risk assessment and capital authorisation process is in activities including copies of all regulatory announcements and place for all significant capital expenditure and this takes into annual and interim results presentations immediately following account operational, financial and technical risks.
Through the site, shareholders can also access the capital projects, a post-investment analysis is completed to facilitate Companys registrars where details and dividend mandates can be continuous improvement in the capital planning process, including changed, proxy votes made on-line and information obtained on risk identication and mitigation.
The Companys Treasury policy governs the major financial risk Internal controls and risk management areas relating to interest rate and foreign currency exposure, debt The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the maturity and liquidity.
The policy was reviewed during the period Companys systems of internal controls and is responsible for these and minor changes were approved by the Board, following review controls including financial, operational and compliance controls by the Audit Committee.
The Treasurer manages hedging activities and risk management.
In accordance with the provisions of the and external cover for net currency transaction exposures.
Turnbull Report, the Board is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
Such a control system can only Regular reviews of annual budgets and operating plans are carried provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material out and half year re-forecasting takes place to take account of the misstatement or loss and is designed not to eliminate risk but to latest information and trading conditions.
Key performance indicators enable the Company to achieve its corporate objectives within a KPIs are used on a monthly basis to assess the achievement of managed risk prole.
business objectives, both financial and non-financial.
These KPIs are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that they remain the most The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies relevant indicators for the business.
for risk and control, whilst management is responsible for designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control Board committees processes to implement Board policies effectively.
The Board Nomination Committee confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and At the start of the period the Nomination Committee comprised John managing significant risks has operated throughout the year and to Westwood Chairman, Robert Shrager and Charles Thompson.
Bill the date of this report.
Shannon joined the Committee on 29th April 2005 and became its The Group Business Risk department, which incorporates the Chairman upon the retirement of John Westwood on 7th July 2005.
Internal Audit function, monitors the Companys system of internal On the same date Charles Thompson also retired at which time controls and the Head of Group Business Risk has direct access to Geoff Brady joined the Committee.
Martin Reavley became a the Audit Committee and by invitation attends all of its meetings.
Lord Harris also joined the Committee in Monthly and quarterly reports are prepared and circulated to October 2005.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executives and Directors and highlight any breaches of or Committee.
The Committee met 6 times during the year and nonweaknesses in controls together with resultant corrective action.
members are invited to attend, as appropriate.
A key risks matrix identifying the severity of risk has been prepared The Committee reviews the size, composition and effectiveness of and considered by the Audit Committee during the year.
The risk the Board and the time commitment that each Non-Executive matrix was developed in conjunction with senior managers and Director is expected to allocate to his Board and Committee duties functional heads based on the assessment of each department with the Company.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED the appointment of all new Directors.
It assesses the skills and Audit Committee experience needed for any Board appointment and identies and At the year end the Committee comprised Martin Reavley nominates candidates, with assistance from executive search Chairman, Robert Shrager, Geoff Brady and Bill Shannon.
The Committee also considers Westwood and Charles Thompson were members until their succession plans to ensure an orderly succession of appointments retirement at the Annual General Meeting in 2005.
Geoff Brady and and nominates Directors for re-election taking into account their Bill Shannon joined the Committee on 29th April 2005. effectiveness and past performance.
Martin Reavley became Chairman of the Committee in November The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors 2005, in place of Robert Shrager who remained a member.
In commits sufficient time to the fullment of their duties.
Directors accordance with the Combined Code, Martin Reavley has recent disclose any other significant commitments prior to being appointed and relevant financial experience having held the position of Finance by the Board and advise the Chairman of any changes during their Director of Kesa Electricals plc until April 2005.
He is currently First tenure of ofce.
Bursar of Kings College Cambridge.
The other Directors also bring a wide range of knowledge and experience from a number of The Chairman does not have any other significant external different sectors which provides a strong platform for the commitments, however his responsibilities increased during the Committees deliberations.
year whilst the Board searched for a Trading Director.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee, As reported last year the Committee instructed a search consultant meetings of which are normally attended by the Group Finance to identify suitable additional Non-Executive Directors after reviewing Director and senior members of the Finance and Business Risk submissions from a number of potential rms.
The Committee had departments and representatives of the external auditors.
The evaluated the requirement for the appointment of a number of external auditors have unrestricted access to members of the independent Directors with significant retail experience.
Committee, Company information and records.
As a result of this process Geoff Brady and Bill Shannon were The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity appointed to the Board on 29th April 2005 and Martin Reavley was within its terms of reference that have been approved by the Board subsequently appointed a Director on 8th July 2005.
Biographical and are available on the Companys website.
The Committee details of each of these Directors is shown on page 9.
After initial reports back to the Board with the results of its activities.
meetings with the Committees Chairman and the Senior Independent Director the short listed candidates met with the Executive Directors The Committees main responsibilities include reviewing the and other Board members.
Companys financial statements, evaluating the systems of internal control and the management of risks and overseeing compliance During the year the Committee has been involved in the search for with laws, regulations and various codes of practice.
The Committee a Trading Director and subsequently the appointments of a Buying periodically addresses the relationship between management and Director, Clothing and Buying and Merchandising Director, Home the internal and external auditors.
It also monitors the reporting have strengthened the Companys senior management.
The relationships and accountability structure between these parties.
Committee is also working closely with an executive search consultancy to identify a successor to John King.
The external auditors, Head of Business Risk and the Company Secretary provide updates to the Committee on issues that are likely Remuneration Committee to impact the Company from an audit perspective, such as revised At the year end the Remuneration Committee comprised Geoff reporting requirements and changes to accounting regulations.
Brady who was appointed in April 2005 and became Chairman in July 2005, Robert Shrager and Lord Harris.
Charles Thompson, the During the year the Committee met four times and worked to a former Committee Chairman and John Westwood retired from the structured programme of activities.
In accordance with best practice, on one occasion the external auditors met the Committee Committee upon leaving the Board in July 2005. members without other members of management present.
Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and advisors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 13 to 17.
The Committee has a number of standard agenda items which This policy will be submitted to the shareholders for approval at the coincide with key events in the annual financial reporting cycle.
Other issues are addressed as they arise during the year and other Annual General Meeting in July 2006.
22 items are contained within the Committees terms of reference which review of the adequacy of the systems of accounting and internal are reviewed on an annual basis.
The Committee is the primary link control, including the annual review of internal controls and between the Board and the external and internal auditors which recommending approval of the statements on internal control to facilitates the independence from management.
This review also involved ensuring the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management The Committees principal activities during the year were: of risk and considering other matters relating to the Groups financial affairs including the Groups accounting and treasury the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and policies.
The Committee also reviewed the internal audit its impact upon the Groups Financial Statements: departments terms of reference, schedule of work and audits review of trading statements prior to release of the Annual during the year and reviewed key risk areas relating to the Financial Statements, the Interim Results and other formal Groups activities and actions to reduce risk exposure: and announcements with external auditors and recommending them monitoring of whistle blowing procedures to ensure that for approval to the Board: condential arrangements remained in place for all employees recommending to the Board the re-appointment of the external to raise matters of concern and to ensure that there were proper auditors,  LLP PwC, monitoring their procedures to ensure investigations of all concerns raised.
The performance and independence including the amount of nonwhistle blowing policy was re-issued during the year following audit services work and agreeing their fees and terms of review by the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the conduct, control Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee and effectiveness of the annual external audit and the auditors The work of the CSR Committee is reviewed in detail as part of the plan for the audit of the accounts including the scope of work, Business Review on pages 7 and 8. key risks and methods of working.
PwC carried out non-audit services but only after rigorous checks and a competitive tender By Order of the Board to confirm that they were the most appropriate provider.
PwC is subject to stringent professional standards and codes of Simon N Waite conduct which help to safeguard the integrity of their auditing Company Secretary role on behalf of the shareholders: 19th May 2006 23
