Corporate governance continued The following were Directors of the Company during the period Committees since listing: To support the principles of good governance, the committee structure operates as explained below.
The committees each Position Date of appointment have written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are on the Companys website.
03 Executive Committee Mike Bramley Managing Director, The Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, consists Pubs & Bars 15.4.
03 of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives George Fairweather Independent as shown on page 25 of the Annual Review and Summary Non-Executive Director 15.4.
Tony Hughes Managing Director, Restaurant Group 15.4.
03 The Committee meets every four weeks and has everyday Sir Tim Lankester Independent responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
03 the Groups strategy and revenue and capital budgets for Board Karim Naffah Finance Director 15.4.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant Sara Weller Senior Independent investment proposals.
03 The Committee monitors the financial, operational and The following were Directors of the Company prior to listing.
They customer service performance of the Group and allocates received no remuneration in respect of their appointments.
resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group Appointed Resigned has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior succession plans.
03 Audit Committee Sir Ian Prosser 10.2.
03 The Audit Committee consists of the three independent Richard North 10.2.
The Committee wishes to retain Robert Larson 10.2.
03 the knowledge, experience and judgement of the Chairman Bryan Sanderson 10.2.
03 of the Board, but, reecting the recommendation of the Smith Sir Howard Stringer 10.2.
03 Committee, Roger Carr has resigned from the Audit Committee since the year end and will attend at the invitation of the The current Directors biographical details are set out on page Committees Chairman.
24 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003, and these include their main commitments outside the Company.
The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, is chaired by George Fairweather, who, as the finance director All members of the Board will retire and offer themselves for of a FTSE 100 company, has current and relevant financial reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on 12 February 2004. experience.
The Committee has met three times since the Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on Company was listed and all members attended on each page 15.
The Chairman and the three independent Non-Executive occasion since their appointment.
Directors have letters of appointment.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Chairman Roger Carr is Chairman of the Board and has responsibility for the review the Companys public statements on internal control smooth running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are and corporate governance compliance prior to their fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
He also ensures that consideration by the Board: appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, Chief Executive misconduct and control weaknesses and to consider Tim Clarke is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for the Companys response to any such occurrence: implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the Group.
He has authority to approve capital expenditure projects review managements evaluation of any change in internal up to a level approved by the Board.
controls over financial reporting: Senior Independent Director review with management and the external auditors any Sara Weller has been appointed as Senior Independent financial statements required under UK or US legislation Non-Executive Director.
before submission to the Board: 10 Mitchells & Butlers establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness Board and committee evaluation of the Group Assurance function: As the Board and committee structure has not yet been in place for a year, no formal performance evaluation has assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, been carried out.
The Company expects to establish such resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external a process during 2003 04. auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: Non-Executive Directors The Company has experienced independent Non-Executive pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external Directors who represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
auditors and the fees to be paid for that work along with the In addition to the Chairman, who was independent on his monitoring of the external auditors independence: and appointment, there are three independent Non-Executive Directors.
In the light of the requirements of the Revised Code for oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or Non-Executive Directors, the Company intends to appoint an auditing matters and the condential, anonymous submission additional independent Non-Executive Director in 2004. by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
All Directors are briefed by use of comprehensive papers in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the The Committee has agreed for the 2004 financial year, meetings.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to oversee the enhanced by business presentations and operational visits adoption of a specic Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive, outside Board meetings.
Separate strategy meetings and the Finance Director and the Deputy Finance Director, ad hoc meetings with senior executives are attended.
which is consistent with the Companys overall statement of business ethics.
Re-election of Directors The Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for Remuneration Committee re-election at least every three years.
The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Sara Weller, comprises the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Independent advice The Committee wishes to retain the knowledge, experience Members of the Board may take independent professional and judgement of the Chairman of the Board but reecting the advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access recommendation of the Revised Code, Roger Carr has resigned to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
from the Committee since the year end and will attend by invitation of the Committees Chairman.
Shareholder relations The Company has a programme of meetings with its major Further details about the Committee are included in the institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to Remuneration Report on page 12. discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Nomination Committee report to the Board the views of major shareholders about the The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, who Company, and the Non-Executive Directors are available to major chairs the Committee, the Senior Independent Director, one shareholders on request.
Institutional investors and analysts are other Non-Executive Director and any one Executive Director.
also invited to briengs by the Company after the announcement Its terms of reference provide that the Committee is responsible of its interim and final results.
The content of these briengs is for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for posted on the Companys website, www.
com, together appointment to the Board.
with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company appointed external consultants to nd candidates for the one independent non-executive directorship lled since The Annual General Meeting provides a useful interface listing.
A candidate prole for that search was agreed.
with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination General Purposes Committee Committees will be present to answer questions.
The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by a Director.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Annual Report 2003 11 Remuneration report This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee Committee has attended all meetings held since he or she was the Committee and has been approved by the Board.
It has appointed to the Committee.
been drawn up in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, Schedule 7A to the Companies Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Act 1985 as introduced by the Directors Remuneration Report The following policy has applied since listing and will apply Regulations and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Company is aware for the financial year 2004.
For subsequent years, the of the Codes requirements for companies with financial years Committee will review the policy and recommend changes beginning on or after 1 November 2003 and is taking steps as appropriate.
to comply in those areas where it does not already do so.
Remuneration packages are designed to attract, retain and This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the motivate Executive Directors of the highest calibre.
The packages will be competitive within the leisure retailing The Remuneration Committee industry and in those markets from which the Company recruits.
The Committee was formed on 13 April 2003 and during the period under review has consisted of the following In xing remuneration, note will be taken of reward levels in Non-Executive Directors: the wider community.
Sara Weller Chairman There will be an appropriate balance between fixed and variable risk reward.
The latter will be linked to the Roger Carr performance of the individual and of the Group.
Sir Tim Lankester Using target or projected value calculations, performance related incentives for Executive Directors will equate to George Fairweather approximately 60% of total remuneration.
Since the period under review and reecting the Revised Code, Share and cash incentives will be designed so as Roger Carr, the Chairman of the Board, has ceased to be a to align the interests of Executive Directors with those member of the Committee.
For this purpose, Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a significant level of No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest ownership of the Companys shares, two times salary, other than as a shareholder in the matters to be decided by the but three times salary for the Chief Executive.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors from share schemes normally should not be sold until is decided by the Board on advice from the Executive Directors.
the minimum level of ownership has been satisfied.
During the period since its formation, the Committee has Policy on Non-Executive Directors received external advice from Towers Perrin, benets consultants Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters of and Allen & Overy, the Companys general legal advisers.
Their appointment and subsequent reappointment Committee also took advice from Tim Clarke, the Chief Executive, is subject to election or re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Bronagh Kennedy, the Human Resources Director & General Directors are paid a basic fee with additional fees for membership Counsel and other HR professionals within the HR department, of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and for chairing namely Iain Kirkpatrick and Sheila Mellish.
None of these those committees.
The fees are approved by the Board on the participates in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
recommendation of the Executive Directors, based on a review All of these advisers were originally appointed by the Company of the fees paid in other companies of a similar size.
and the Committee has agreed to receive their advice on remuneration matters.
Components of remuneration packages The main components of Executive Directors remuneration are: The Committee is responsible for determining the policy on remuneration for the Executive Directors, other members of the Basic salary Executive Committee and senior executives.
It determines the Salary is mainly set at median market levels and is based on actual remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviews individual performance and on information from independent proposals in respect of other members of the Executive Committee.
professional sources on the salary levels for similar jobs in The rest of this report deals with the remuneration of Executive comparable companies.
Salary levels in the Group and in and Non-Executive Directors only.
the wider employment market are also taken into account.
The Committee is expected to meet at least three times a year Annual performance bonus and since its formation, has met twice.
Each member of the Challenging performance goals are set which must be achieved 12 Mitchells & Butlers before a bonus becomes payable.
The maximum bonus Retesting will be permitted once only, 12 months after the end opportunity is normally 80% of salary of which in 2003 04 of the performance period, with measurement from the original 50% is linked to earnings per share and 30% to personal base year.
If the performance target is not then met, the relevant and Group business objectives.
The bonus is payable either in cash, or in shares under the Eps is a measurement which reects movement in shareholder Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan as set out below.
value and the target set would mean a significant and challenging improvement in the Companys performance, if achieved.
The Bonuses are not pensionable.
Companys auditors will certify performance against the target.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP Executive share options are not pensionable.
At the discretion of the Committee, the Executive Directors may receive all or part of their annual performance bonus in the Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP Companys shares.
A bonus award of shares will be deferred The PRSP allows Executive Directors and eligible employees for 12 months.
If the Director is in the Companys employment to receive awards of shares or cash subject to the at the end of that period, matching shares may be awarded satisfaction of a performance condition, set by the Committee, of up to 0.5 times the deferred shares.
Bonus and matching which is measured over a three year period.
For the cycle shares are normally released in three equal tranches on the to 30 September 2003, the measure was based on the first, second and third anniversaries of the bonus award date, achievement of budgeted cost savings and any awards will provided the Director remains in the Companys employment.
For the cycle to 30 September 2004 the STDIP benets are not pensionable.
award will be measured by reference to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to that of Executive Share Option Plan EXSOP a comparator group of 11 other companies over the same At the discretion of the Committee, grants of EXSOP options period.
For the 2002 05 cycle, 50% of the award will be will normally be made annually to senior executives: grants are measured by reference to the TSR performance.
The scaled according to seniority and for Executive Directors the comparator group currently consists of: maximum value of shares over which options may be granted in any year is two times salary.
In determining the level of grant, Mitchells & Butlers Luminar the Company will take into account the level of awards made under the Performance Restricted Share Plan, so as to remain City Centre Restaurants Punch Taverns within the limits set out below.
Enterprise Inns Regent Inns The grant of options is restricted so that in each year the aggregate of i 25% of the market value of the ordinary shares Fuller, Smith & Turner Whitbread over which an option is granted under EXSOP and ii 33% of the market value of the ordinary shares over which an award Greene King Wolverhampton & Dudley is made under the Performance Restricted Share Plan, will not exceed 80% of an employees salary, taking the market value JD Wetherspoon Yates in each case as at the date of grant.
These limits may only be exceeded in special circumstances.
This group of companies was chosen because it consists of competitors and suppliers.
A performance condition, set by the Committee, has to be met before options can be exercised.
For options granted in 2003, If the Company nishes in first to sixth positions in the group, the Companys earnings per share eps over the three year an award will vest, graded between 100% of the TSR element performance period must increase by at least 4 percentage of the award for first or second to 20% for sixth position.
Below points per annum over the growth in the UK Retail Prices sixth position the award relating to TSR lapses.
Index RPI before options can be exercised in full.
Reduced exercises will be permitted for lower levels of eps growth, The vesting of the other 50% of the award will be based on the as follows: average amount by which the Companys cash return on capital employed cash ROCE exceeds its weighted average cost of If eps growth over the performance period exceeds the growth capital WACC over the performance period.
The award for in RPI by 3 percentage points per annum on average over the this element of the performance measure will be graded so that performance period, two-thirds of the ordinary shares under if the amount by which the cash ROCE exceeds the WACC over option will become exercisable.
One-third of the ordinary shares the performance period is at least 4.5 percentage points, 100% under option will become exercisable for eps growth exceeding of the cash ROCE element of the award will vest, whereas if the the RPI by at least 2 percentage points per annum on average excess is 3 percentage points, 20% of the award will vest.
In over the performance period.
between 3 and 4.5 percentage points, the award will be graded Annual Report 2003 13 Remuneration report continued on a straight line basis.
Below 3 percentage points there will industry sector, to include direct competitors and the wider be no award in respect of this element.
retail sector: TSR was chosen as a measurement because it allies the size turnover, profits and the number of people employed: interest of management with that of shareholders.
The cash ROCE measure was chosen to motivate the Executive Directors structure and complexity of the business: and to increase the cash returns generated by the business and to reduce the overall cost of funding the Company thereby geographical spread.
maximising the spread between the two and increasing shareholder value.
Policy on external appointments The Company recognises that its Directors may be invited Performance measurement under PRSP will be certied by the to become non-executive directors of other listed companies and Companys auditors.
Benets under PRSP are not pensionable.
that such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are therefore allowed Rolled over options to accept one non-executive appointment with the Companys On separation, the Groups executives, including the Executive prior approval, and as long as this is not likely to lead to conicts Directors, with outstanding options under the Six Continents of interest.
Fees received by the Director may be retained.
Executive Share Option Schemes were permitted to roll over During the period under review Tim Clarke was a non-executive those options into options of equivalent value over the director of Debenhams plc and retained the fees paid for that Companys shares.
The rolled over options are not subject appointment.
The fee for 2002 03 was 37,000. to a performance condition.
Performance graph Other share plans Throughout the period from the Companys listing on 15 April 2003 Executive Directors may participate in the all-employee to 30 September 2003 the Company has been a member of the plans, the Sharesave Plan and the Share Incentive Plan, FTSE 100 index.
The graph below therefore measures the but performance targets do not apply to such plans.
Companys TSR performance, assuming dividends are reinvested, for that period against the FTSE 100 index.
Companies used for comparison In assessing overall levels of pay and benets, Mitchells & Butlers TSR has been calculated in accordance with the requirements compares the packages offered by comparator companies.
These of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2000, except companies are chosen by the Committee following advice from that the period covered is only since the Companys listing in external consultants, having regard to: April 2003.
Total shareholder return Mitchells & Butlers v FTSE 100 15 4 03 30 9 03 120 Mitchells & Butlers 115 FTSE 100 110 105 100 95 Source: DATASTREAM 90 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 14 Mitchells & Butlers Directors contracts then i he will be treated as having completed an additional It is the Companys normal policy to provide Executive Directors 24 months service under the Six Continents Executive Pension with rolling 12 months contracts which provide for 12 months Plan or 12 months, in the case of Mike Bramley and ii he will notice from the Company and six months notice from the receive an amount equal to salary plus annual bonus averaged Director.
Service contracts provide for summary termination over the previous three bonus periods for a period of 21 months in the event of gross misconduct.
In other circumstances any or 12 months, in the case of Mike Bramley, less any outstanding severance payment would normally be based on a valuation salary paid after termination and also less the gross pension of net pay and benets for any unexpired notice period on the he would have been entitled to during the relevant period of expectation that the Director had made reasonable attempts 21 months or 12 months, in the case of Mike Bramley.
Tim Clarke has neither a two year notice period nor a change of Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but control provision in his service agreement of 12 February 2003. operate under a letter of appointment that provides for their tenure of office to be reviewed when they are about to stand Policy regarding pensions for re-election, which is every three years.
The dates of UK-based Executive Directors and senior employees participate appointment of Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 10. on the same basis as other members in the Mitchells & Butlers The Chairman Roger Carrs appointment is expressed to expire Executive Pension Plan and, if appropriate, the Mitchells & three years from the separation on 15 April 2003 of the Company Butlers Executive Top-Up Scheme.
Executives in Germany, from Six Continents.
On 12 February 2003, prior to the Companys who do not participate in these plans, will participate in admission to listing, the Executive Directors, Mike Bramley, local plans.
Tim Clarke, Tony Hughes and Karim Naffah, each entered into a service contract with the Company which provides for the The rest of this Remuneration Report on pages 15 to 21 has notice period described above.
been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
Messrs Hughes and Naffah, in their previous contracts with the Annual emoluments Six Continents group, however, enjoyed a two year notice period As the Directors have been in ofce only since the Companys from their employing company and, in their 12 February 2003 separation from Six Continents in April 2003, the emoluments contracts with the Company, it was agreed that this provision tables below are drawn up on the following basis: would continue to apply for 12 months from separation only, i. e. until 15 April 2004.
With the exception of these arrangements, All Directors emoluments for the period since taking up the unexpired portion of Executive Directors contracts is their appointments to the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
For Roger Carr and Tim Clarke, who were directors of Six Messrs Bramley, Hughes and Naffah also carried forward a Continents PLC, their emoluments from that company for change of control provision from their previous contracts into their the period from 1 October 2002 to 14 April 2003.
12 February 2003 contracts, which provision will also cease to apply in April 2004, 12 months from separation.
This provides Prior year comparatives are included for Roger Carr and that if a change of control occurs within 12 months of the Tim Clarke based on their emoluments from Six Continents PLC.
separation and the Director is dismissed within 12 months of No comparatives are shown for the other Directors as they this other than in certain circumstances such as misconduct, were not previously directors of Six Continents PLC.
Annual Report 2003 15 Remuneration report continued Directors emoluments from Mitchells & Butlers plc since 15 April 2003 Total Basic Short-term emoluments salaries performance excluding and fees payments Benets pensions 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Mike Bramley 150 82 13 245 Tim Clarke 232 126 13 371 Tony Hughes 150 82 9 241 Karim Naffah 162 89 6 257 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 92 597 George Fairweather 23 23 Sir Tim Lankester 16 16 Sara Weller 23 23 Total 2003 848 379 46 1,273 Appointed 16 May 2003.
Emoluments earned as directors of Six Continents PLC Total emoluments excluding pensions Basic Short-term 1.10.02 1.10.01 salaries performance to to and fees payments Benets 14.4.
02 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Director Tim Clarke 322 26 15 363 694 Non-Executive Director Roger Carr 56 56 46 The gures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
Short-term performance payments include the annual performance related cash bonus and the value of any shares allocated under the Six Continents Employee Profit Share Scheme 2001 02 and the Mitchells & Butlers Share Incentive Plan 2002 03.
Tim Clarkes annual performance related cash bonus of 26,000 for the period 1 October 2002 to 14 April 2003 was deferred into shares under the Six Continents Special Deferred Incentive Plan and he became entitled to a 0.5 times matching award of shares valued at 13,000.
The satisfaction of that entitlement by Mitchells & Butlers plc is described in the note on page 17.
Benefits incorporate all tax assessable benefits arising from employment with the Company or Six Continents PLC, which relate in the main to the provision of a company car.
There were no payments for loss of ofce relating to the separation or for any other reason.
16 Mitchells & Butlers Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan The Executive Directors may under the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan receive all or part of their annual cash bonus in shares deferred for 12 months.
If the Director is still employed by the Company at that stage, the Company may also provide a related matching share award.
The maximum award by the Company of matching shares will be 0.5 times the bonus shares deferred.
Share entitlements under the STDIP are released in equal tranches over a three year period, subject to the Director remaining in the Companys employment.
The table below shows the maximum matching shares receivable if all of the Directors 2003 bonuses are deferred into share awards.
Total awards Ordinary share over awards granted ordinary Awards held during period Year Vesting shares Value Director at 15.4.
03 000 Mike Bramley 17,375 2003 9.12.04 17,375 40 Tim Clarke 26,731 2003 9.12.04 26,731 61 Tony Hughes 17,375 2003 9.12.04 17,375 40 Karim Naffah 18,712 2003 9.12.04 18,712 43 Note As part of the terms of separation, the Company has agreed to provide 105,495 shares on 13 December 2003 and a further 17,371 shares in December 2004 to Tim Clarke to meet the entitlements he had accrued respectively under the Six Continents Special Deferred Incentive Plan for 2001 02 and 2002 03 to date of separation.
Based on the share price at 30 September 2003 2.30.
Directors pensions to the level that would otherwise have applied.
The Plans main The following information relates to the pension arrangements features applicable to the Executive Directors are: provided for Mike Bramley, Tim Clarke, Tony Hughes and Karim Naffah under the Dened benefit Section of the Mitchells a normal pension age of 60: & Butlers Executive Pension Plan the Plan, and in the cases of Tim Clarke, Tony Hughes and Karim Naffah under the unfunded pension accrual of 1 30th of final pensionable salary for Executive Top-Up Scheme MABETUS.
each year of pensionable service: The Plan is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, occupational life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary: pension scheme with a final salary section of which these Directors are members.
All Plan benets are subject to Inland pensions payable in the event of ill health: and Revenue limits.
Where such limitation is due to the earnings cap, MABETUS is used to increase pension and death benets spouses and dependants pensions on death.
Annual Report 2003 17 Remuneration report continued Directors pensions benets Increase in transfer value Increase Increase Accrued Transfer value of Directors over year in accrued in accrued pension at accrued pension contributions less Directors pension pension 30.9.
03 contributions note 2 note 3 note 4 Director 30.9.
Of the amounts for Messrs Bramley, Hughes and Naffah, 6,700, 7,100 and 7,300 respectively were their contributions during the period since the Company was listed.
Note 2 The absolute increase in accrued pension during the year.
Note 3 The increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increase for ination.
Note 4 Accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 30 September 2003.
Note 5 Members of the Plan have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions, subject to Inland Revenue limits, but members of MABETUS are unlikely to benefit by doing so: neither any such contributions, nor the resulting benets, are included in the above table.
Note 6 Transfer values have been calculated in a manner consistent with the Retirement Benefits Schemes Transfer Values GNII published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
Early retirement rights The following is additional information relating to Directors After leaving the service of the Company, the member has pensions under the Plan and MABETUS.
the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his 50th birthday, subject to a discount for early payment.
Normal pension age The normal pension age is 60.
Pension increases All pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions 2.
Dependants pensions are subject to contractual annual increases in line with the On the death of a Director before his normal pension age, annual rise in the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
a widows pension equal to one-third of his own pension In addition, it is the Companys present aim to pay additional is payable: a childs pension of one-sixth of his pension increases based on two-thirds of any rise in the RPI above 5% is payable for each of a maximum of two eligible children.
On the death of a Director after payment of his pension 5.
Other discretionary benets commences, a widows pension of two-thirds of the Directors Other than the discretionary pension increases mentioned full pension entitlement is payable: in addition, a childs in 4, there are no discretionary practices which are taken into pension of one-sixth of his full pension entitlement is payable account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
for each of a maximum of two eligible children.
18 Mitchells & Butlers Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP The PRSP was introduced on separation, initially to replace the Six Continents Long Term Incentive Plan for Mitchells & Butlers executives.
In 2003, there were three cycles of the plan in operation.
The first two were to replace participation in the final cycles of the Six Continents plan.
The awards made in respect of the performance period ended 30 September 2003, which are to be paid in cash, were: Pre-tax awards granted Total Awards during pre-tax held at period to awards held 15.4.
03 Director 000 000 000 Mike Bramley 98 98 Tim Clarke 150 150 Tony Hughes 98 98 Karim Naffah 105 105 This award was based on a twelve months performance period to 30 September 2003 where the performance measure related to the achievement of budgeted cost savings.
The award is to be paid in cash, equivalent to 30% of salary.
The Executive Directors are included in the cycles ending on 30 September 2004 and 30 September 2005 and the maximum potential pre-tax value of their awards, if performance targets are achieved, is: Awards granted during period to 30.9.
03 Max max potential Awards potential entitlement held at entitlement 15.4.
03 Director 000 000 000 000 Mike Bramley 195 293 488 Tim Clarke 300 450 750 Tony Hughes 195 293 488 Karim Naffah 210 315 525 The above awards, if achieved, arise from: An eighteen months performance period to 30 September 2004 where the performance measure relates to the Companys total shareholder return against a group of 11 other comparator companies.
Any award will be made in shares and will be graded, according to where the Company nishes in the comparator group, between 60% of salary for first or second position and 12% of salary for sixth position.
Below sixth position there will be no award.
A thirty months performance period to 30 September 2005 where the performance measure relates rstly to the Companys total shareholder return performance and secondly to the Companys cash return on capital employed against its weighted average cost of capital.
The combined maximum award from the two measures is equivalent to 90% of salary.
Further details of the performance measures are set out on pages 13 and 14.
Participation in the PRSP is by means of an option, which is exercisable for nominal consideration once the performance conditions have been satisfied.
