CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This statement, together with the Report on Directors Remuneration, the Group, including the monitoring of performance against those describes the way in which the principles and practices detailed in budgets and plans.
It approves capital expenditure up to predetermined the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of limits set by the board and monitors key research and development Best Practice, which is annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial programmes and the operation of technology licences to and from the Services Authority, are applied within the Group.
It formulates and reviews senior management succession plans, is responsible for the overall direction of the development of the The company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code of Groups management resources and approves the terms and conditions Best Practice throughout the year, except for the formal appointment of a of employment of the senior management.
Prior to its establishment senior independent director and the introduction of one year notice periods in December 2002 these responsibilities were the responsibilities of in the service agreements for Paolo Scaroni and Warren Knowlton, who the Management Committee or the Senior Executive Development were in office prior to June 1998 and who both resigned as executive Committee, which have ceased to exist.
Since its establishment the Executive Board has had three meetings at which all its members attended with the exception of Andrew Robb, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS who was not present at one meeting.
At 31st March 2003, the board consisted of a non-executive chairman, chief Audit Committee.
This committee consists of all the non-executive executive, three other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
It directors other than Sir Nigel Rudd, who was a member throughout meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a formal schedule of the year under review under the chairmanship of Oliver Stocken and matters reserved for its decision.
The board directs and controls the Group and has responsibility for reviewing the Groups internal control and risk is responsible for strategy and operating performance.
All directors receive management systems, its accounting policies and the nature and scope regular information on the Groups operational and financial performance, risk of the internal and external audits.
This committee also keeps under management, business plans, future strategy and executive management.
All review the cost-effectiveness of both external and internal audit and the directors have access to the company secretary and, to enable the board to independence and objectivity of the auditors.
This committee reviews discharge its duties, all directors have full access to management and financial the plans and work of internal audit.
The group chief executive, finance information.
Any director who, in furtherance of his duties, wishes to take director and chief internal auditor, together with the external auditors, external advice, may do so at the expense of the company.
attend and report as appropriate.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Groups During the year this committee had three meetings, and all persons, pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option or other who were members at the relevant time, attended all meetings with the incentive schemes.
The board considers all the non-executive directors to exception of Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, who was not present at one meeting, be independent as they are independent of the Groups executive management and William Harrison, who was not present at one meeting.
and free from any business or other relationship which could materially Remuneration Committee.
This committee consists of all the noninterfere with the exercise of independent judgements.
After the year end, executive directors under the chairmanship of James Leng.
It is the board reviewed its position on appointing a senior independent director responsible for determining the Groups policy for executive and decided to appoint Oliver Stocken to such position.
remuneration and, in particular, for approving the terms and conditions All directors seek election to the board at the annual general meeting of employment of the executive directors.
It determines appropriate following their appointment and thereafter seek re-election by rotation at performance conditions for bonus, long-term incentive and executive least once every three years.
Every director receives appropriate training share option schemes and approves awards and the issue of options in and business familiarisation as required on appointment to the board, and accordance with the terms of those schemes.
During the year this committee had six meetings, and all members During the year the board had nine meetings, and all persons, who were attended all meetings with the exception of Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, who directors at the relevant time, attended all meetings with the exception of was not present at two meetings, and William Harrison, who was not Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, who was not present at three meetings, William present at one meeting.
Harrison, who was not present at one meeting, and Warren Knowlton, who Nomination Committee.
This committee consists of all the nonwas not present at three meetings.
executive directors, together with the chief executive, under the chairmanship of Sir Nigel Rudd.
It is responsible for nominating BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES candidates for the board as executive and non-executive directors.
Certain matters are delegated by the board, under written terms of reference, During the year this committee had three meetings and all persons, to the following committees: who were members at the relevant time, attended all meetings with Executive Board.
The Executive Board consists of the executive directors the exception of Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, who was not present at one under the chairmanship of Stuart Chambers and formulates policy and meeting, and Paolo Scaroni, who was not present at one meeting.
strategy for the boards approval.
It is responsible for ensuring that the policies of the board are carried out on a Group-wide basis.
It is also The terms of reference of the Executive Board, the Audit Committee, the responsible for the development of annual budgets and operating plans Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are available linked to the management and control of the day-to-day operations of on our website at www.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 3
