Premier Farnell plc Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 40 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report scheme provides for annual grants to participants including Executive This report provides information on Directors remuneration.
The maximum value of an annual grant to any individual will be will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting equal to 100 per cent of the individuals annual salary.
Exercise of options inviting them to approve this report.
granted under the scheme will be subject to a performance condition.
This condition will be that the growth in the Companys earnings per share Remuneration policy EPS over the three consecutive financial years starting with the year of The Groups overall policy aims are to: grant exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI over the same period by at least 9 per cent.
At this level of performance half of the attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels options granted would be exercisable.
Exercise of all options granted will throughout the Group: require that the Companys EPS growth exceeds RPI over the period by at pay competitive salaries and benets to all of its people: least 15 per cent, with a sliding scale for performance between 9 per cent and 15 per cent.
If the performance condition is not met over this three encourage the holding of shares in the Company as an effective way of year period, options may also be exercised if the Companys EPS growth aligning the interests of employees with those of shareholders: and exceeds RPI by a minimum of 12 per cent over the four financial years focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the Group starting with the year of grant.
The same sliding scale for exercise will meet its specic targets.
apply for performance between 12 per cent and 20 per cent.
If the performance target is not met by the fourth year, the relevant options will The Boards policy for executive remuneration is to: lapse.
pay a basic salary which is competitive with other companies of similar Earnings per share was chosen as the appropriate measure of performance size and complexity: as it provides an absolute benchmark of the Companys performance and give executives the opportunity to increase their basic earnings by is therefore a suitable balance with the relative performance measurement meeting and outperforming key short term and long term measures, used in the Companys long-term incentive plan.
thereby linking executive rewards to the Groups performance and shareholder interests: The second proposal is for certain amendments to the Companys long-term incentive plan LTIP.
The main performance measure under the encourage executives to hold shares in the Company: and LTIP relates to the Companys total shareholder return or TSR share reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the price growth and reinvested dividends over a three year period.
The base Groups performance, without paying more than is necessary to achieve share price used for TSR calculation purposes is currently the average this objective.
price over the 12 month period immediately prior to the beginning of the financial year in which an award is made under the plan.
This base share In framing this policy, the Board has given full consideration to the price is compared to the share price three years later, calculated as the provisions of the Combined Code.
average over the 12 month period immediately prior to the end of the three year performance period.
This report sets out the Groups policy on Directors remuneration for 2003 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The inclusion in the It is proposed that both of these averaging periods are reduced to three report of remuneration policy in respect of years after 2003 is required by months and that the averaging takes place in the period immediately prior the legislation under which this report is prepared.
The Remuneration to the date of an award.
The Remuneration Committee feels that this will Committee is able to state its remuneration policy for 2003 with create a much closer link to the Companys performance at the time reasonable certainty, but is less certain that this policy will continue without awards are made, while mitigating the impact of share price volatility.
It is amendment in subsequent years.
This is because the Committee also proposed that the same averaging period is used for calculating the considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufciently maximum value of awards made to participants.
exible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and remuneration practice.
Any changes in policy for years Shareholders are also asked to allow amendment to the LTIP rules to after 2003 will be described in future Remuneration Reports.
All allow grants of awards within the 42 day period following approval at the statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after Annual General Meeting referred to above.
Further information on both 2003 should be read in the light of this paragraph.
proposals is contained in the notice of Annual General Meeting sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
As part of the process of keeping the Groups remuneration policy under review, two proposals will be put to shareholders at the Companys Previously, participants in the long term incentive plan did not receive Annual General Meeting.
During the year, the Committee revised this approach and granted executive share options to participants in the The first proposal is for the adoption of a new executive share option long-term incentive plan including Executive Directors.
The Committee scheme which, if approved, will replace the existing executive option concluded that making only long-term incentive plan awards to the schemes.
In line with current best practice, the proposed new option Companys most senior executives and only executive option grants to the Premier Farnell plc Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 41 next tier of management was potentially divisive because of the possibility Under the long-term incentive plan, Executive Directors and senior of one group receiving different benets to the other group in respect of executives are awarded rights to acquire ordinary shares.
Each award the same performance by the Company.
The Committee now intends that made under the plan is subject to performance conditions which will long-term incentive awards will also be made more widely within the determine how many if any of the shares under the award the participant Group in order that Executive Directors and senior executives receive a is entitled to acquire after the three year performance period.
The balance of share options and long-term incentive awards.
maximum value of awards which can be made in any year to a participant is equal to 100 per cent of basic salary.
The Remuneration Committee and its Role The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Michael Lester chairman, The main performance condition compares the growth of the Companys Sir Malcolm Bates, Mr William Korb, Mr Cary Nolan and Mr John Roques.
TSR over a three year period to that of the companies in the FTSE midAll members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors and 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
The Companys ranking amongst considered to be independent.
Mr Morton Mandel was a member of the the comparator companies determines the percentage of shares which a Committee until his retirement from the Board on 12th June 2002. participant can acquire.
No shares may be acquired where the Companys ranking is below median and, to acquire the full number of shares The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee to discuss the awarded, the Company must rank in the top quartile of the comparator performance of other executives and to make proposals where necessary, group.
Between these two points, vesting is on a straight-line basis, with but is not present when his own position is discussed.
20 per cent of any award vesting where the Companys performance is at the median.
Where performance over the three year period does not The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups reach the median ranking, the relevant award lapses and there is no reframework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee testing of performance.
determines the specic remuneration packages for Executive Directors and the other senior executives who form the Group Leadership Team.
In addition, shares can only be acquired under any award if the Committee is satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company During the year the Committee received advice from the Chief Executive in during the performance period justifies the exercise of an award.
respect of the remuneration arrangements for other senior executives and from Mr Brian Lewis, Group HR Director, in respect of remuneration The performance condition was chosen as the Committee believes that arrangements generally.
TSR is an appropriate method of comparing the performance of the Company to that of its peers.
The FTSE mid-250 Index excluding The Current Remuneration Package investment trusts was chosen as the comparator group as there are a The current elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior limited number of companies which are directly comparable to the executives are as follows: Company and the index was therefore felt to be a suitable yardstick of relative performance.
Salary and Benets The Committee reviews salaries each year taking account of Group and In assessing whether such performance condition has been met, the personal performance.
The Committee also takes account of the levels Committee will rely on calculations of the Companys TSR and that of the of pay awarded elsewhere in the Group.
FTSE mid-250 Index carried out on their behalf by New Bridge Street Consultants.
The requirement that the Committee must be satisfied that The value of non-cash benets for Executive Directors is included in the underlying performance of the Company during the performance period table of remuneration on page 43 and consists of a fully expensed car justifies the exercise of an award is intended to give the Committee a and life and health insurance.
The value of these benets is not discretion to refuse to allow a particular exercise, notwithstanding the pensionable, but is assessable to tax.
achievement of at least a median TSR ranking.
The Committees view is that such circumstances are likely to be exceptional and therefore they Short-Term Incentives are difficult to determine before they have arisen.
In addition, the The Company operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme Committee does not wish to limit its discretion in any way by attempting for Executive Directors and senior executives.
The maximum bonus to pre-determine the circumstances in which it might be exercised.
If the payment under the scheme is 100 per cent of base salary for Mr John Committee exercised this discretion it would be in respect of all awards Hirst and 70 per cent 60 per cent for the year ended 2nd February made on a particular date and not in respect of a particular individual 2003 of base salary for Mr Andrew Fisher.
To reach this maximum or individuals.
requires significant value creation by the Group as well as achievement of clearly dened individual objectives.
Benets under the plan are not pensionable.
Long-Term Incentives The Company currently operates two executive share option schemes The Company operates a long-term incentive plan and the share option and has a savings related SAYE share option scheme.
Benets under schemes described below.
these plans are not pensionable.
As noted above, it is proposed to replace the executive share option schemes with a new share option Premier Farnell plc Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 42 scheme for which shareholder approval is being sought at the forthcoming The Company makes further contributions on behalf of Mr Hirst and Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Mr Fisher to unapproved schemes, determined by reference to the excess of their salaries over the earnings cap.
The cost to the Company of these Following the 1996 Finance Act, grants of Inland Revenue approved further contributions was 244,161 2002: 142,840 for Mr Hirst and options are limited to a maximum value of 30,000 per participant and are 72,697 2002: 60,888 for Mr Fisher.
made under the approved executive option scheme.
Options in excess of 30,000 are granted under the unapproved executive scheme.
Grants Relative Importance of Remuneration Elements under both schemes are normally phased and the aggregate total option The Committees view is that the performance related elements of the value for any individual is limited to four times remuneration.
remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a significant element of the total.
This serves to align the interests of such Directors Executive options granted after 13th March 2001 may not be exercised with shareholders.
Assuming full payment of all elements, more than unless the growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS over a two-thirds of the total remuneration of Executive Directors ignoring period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK pension contributions would be performance related.
Retail Price Index RPI over the same period by at least 9 per cent.
For options granted after 20th June 1996, but before 14th March 2001, Service Contracts exercise is subject to the growth in EPS over three consecutive years In accordance with the Companys policy, both Mr Hirst and Mr Fisher exceeding the growth in RPI over the same period by at least 6 per cent.
have service contracts which are terminable by the Company and by the For options granted before 20th June 1996 EPS growth over three Executive on twelve months notice.
Mr Hirsts service contract, dated consecutive years must match the growth in RPI over the same period 13th November 1998, allows the Company to make a payment of salary before options can be exercised.
EPS was chosen as the appropriate in lieu of the whole or part of his notice period and Mr Fishers contract, measure of performance at the time the executive share option schemes dated 24th November 1994, contains provisions entitling him to a were first introduced and is the most common measure used in traditional payment equal to 12 months salary and benets in the event of early option schemes.
The Companys EPS performance is reported quarterly in termination.
The Companys policy is generally not to include a provision the Companys financial statements.
providing for payment of a xed sum on termination and to endeavour to minimise any payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of As noted, should the adoption of the new executive share option scheme any loss.
The provisions in Mr Fishers contract were agreed as part of the be approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting, the new scheme reduction in his notice period from 24 months during 2001. will replace both the existing approved and unapproved executive share option schemes.
Non-Executive Directors The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as In common with all eligible employees of the Group, Executive Directors a whole.
Business expenses are also reimbursed.
In addition to the base are entitled to participate in the Companys SAYE option scheme.
These fee, an additional 5,000 per annum is paid to the chairmen of the Audit options are not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as and Remuneration Committees.
this is an all employee scheme.
Details of their interests in particular issues under the scheme during the year to 2nd February 2003 are set out in the The Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, but are table on page 44. appointed pursuant to letters of appointment.
Such appointments are for a three-year term.
It is normal that the appointment is renewed for a Pension Arrangements second three-year period.
Thereafter, the Companys policy is for The final salary section of the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme the re-appointments to be on an annual basis.
Non-Executive Directors are UK Scheme was closed to new entrants during 1998.
Employees who not eligible to participate in any incentive plans, share options schemes or were entitled to final salary benets as members of the UK Scheme at Company pension arrangements and are not entitled to any payment in 31st December 1998 now receive benets through a combination of final compensation for any early termination of their appointment.
salary benets funded by the UK Scheme and the Premier Farnell Corp. Master Pension Plan the US Plan.
In addition, contributions are made to The commencement dates for the current appointments of Non-Executive the money purchase section within the UK Scheme.
Employees joining Directors are: the UK Scheme since 1st January 1999 are entitled to money purchase benets only, and the UK Scheme is no longer contracted out.
Sir Malcolm Bates 12th June 2002 annual Sir Robert Horton 12th June 2002 annual Mr John Hirst and Mr Andrew Fisher are each entitled to a combination W Korb 21st January 2003 three-year of final salary and money purchase benets under the arrangements set M Lester 4th August 2001 three-year out above up to the limit of the Inland Revenue earnings cap currently C Nolan 5th July 2002 three-year 97,200.
Company contributions payable into the money purchase D J S Roques 1st July 2002 three-year arrangement on their behalf amount to 18.5 per cent of the earnings cap for Mr Hirst and 14.3 per cent of the earnings cap for Mr Fisher, with each All Directors appointments are subject to approval of the shareholders in making an employee contribution equal to 3 per cent of the earnings cap.
General Meeting, sought on a three-yearly basis.
Premier Farnell plc Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 43 Directors Remuneration Other emoluments Salary Annual including Total emoluments Pension contributions or fees bonus benets 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive J R Hirst 356 225 25 606 349 262 160 A C Fisher 235 116 18 369 228 87 74 Non-executive Sir Malcolm Bates Chairman 100 100 100 Sir Robert Horton 35 35 26 W Korb appointed 21st January 2003 1 1 M Lester 28 28 26 M L Mandel retired 12th June 2002 10 10 26 C J Nolan 26 26 26 D J S Roques 28 28 26 P F Sullivan retired 12th June 2002 10 10 26 829 341 43 1,213 833 349 234 No expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax were paid.
There were no amounts paid or receivable in respect of compensation for loss of ofce or in connection with the termination of any Director.
The following table sets out the final salary pension benets accruing to the Executive Directors.
Final salary Additional final salary Transfer value of final Transfer value of final B-A - pension accrued as at pension earned during salary benets as at salary benets as at Directors 2nd February 2003 the year including ination 3rd February 2002 2nd February 2003 Contributions excluding ination A B p. a. p. a. J R Hirst 6,030 1,172 1,089 50,319 42,328 7,991 A C Fisher 18,382 1,400 1,111 135,523 96,861 38,662 For each of the Directors the main terms applying to their final salary pensions are: Mr Hirst is aged 50 and Mr Fisher is aged 45 payable from normal retirement age of 60 the Directors do not make any contribution to the final salary pension arrangements spouses pension of 50 per cent of the Directors pension payable on death pensions in payment increase in line with ination, to a maximum of 5 per cent each year The accrued final salary pension shown at 2nd February 2003 is the combined gure for the UK Scheme and US Plan dened benefit accruals and is the amount that the Director would be entitled to from normal retirement age if he left service at the end of the year.
The increase in final salary pension during the year is the increase over the gure disclosed in last years accounts.
Premier Farnell plc Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 44 All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors final salary pension benets.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and therefore they cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The table above shows transfer values at the beginning and the end of the year.
The decrease in transfer value is related to the substantial decline in equity markets.
Members contributions paid during the year were paid into the money purchase arrangement within the UK Scheme and as such are not included in the transfer value.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are set out below.
There have been no changes in the interests set out between the end of the financial year and 10th April 2003.
2nd February 3rd February 2003 2002 Sir Malcolm Bates beneficial 35,000 35,000 A C Fisher beneficial 80,000 47,500 J R Hirst beneficial 66,050 36,050 Sir Robert Horton beneficial 13,000 13,000 W Korb beneficial 10,000 M Lester beneficial 30,000 10,000 C J Nolan beneficial 7,000 7,000 D J S Roques beneficial 10,000 10,000 In addition to the above beneficial interests in the Companys Ordinary Shares, the executive Directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as being interested in 234,000 Ordinary Shares and 35,000 ADRs representing 70,000 Ordinary Shares held by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust.
All employees including Executive Directors are potential beneciaries of the trust, the purpose of which is to satisfy awards made pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive plan.
It is not anticipated that any employee or Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater number of shares than that to which they are entitled on exercise of awards made to them under the long-term incentive plan.
The other options listed above are executive options which are subject to the performance conditions described under the heading Long-Term Incentives above.
No price was paid for any option.
There were no variations to the terms and conditions of any Directors options during the year.
The market price of the Companys shares at 2nd February 2003 was 174.5p 3rd February 2002: 273p and the range during the year was 129p356p.
Premier Farnell plc Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 45 Long-term Incentive Plan Interests of Directors in the plan are: At Awarded Market price Vested Lapsed At End of 3rd February at date of 2nd February performance 2002 award 2003 period J R Hirst 62,047 485.5 62,047 January 2003 95,541 305 95,541 January 2004 94,964 347.5 94,964 January 2005 A C Fisher 41,365 485.5 41,365 January 2003 63,694 305 63,694 January 2004 61,870 347.5 61,870 January 2005 The conditions for the vesting of an award made under the plan are described under the heading Long-Term Incentives above.
There were no variations made to the terms and conditions of any award during the year.
Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Companys ordinary shares for the five financial years of the Company of which the year to 2nd February 2003 is the last.
This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This was chosen as it is the index of which the Company is a constituent and the index used for the purposes of the long-term incentive plan.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the day on which they are paid.
Investment Trusts Elements of report subject to audit The information above under the headings Directors Remuneration, Directors Interests, Share Options and Long-term Incentive Plan is auditable.
All other information provided in the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Approved by the Board on 19th March 2003 Signed on behalf of the Board by Michael Lester Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Value
