Report on Corporate Governance DIRECTORS continued The Board has appointed the following three standing committees: Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprised David Potter Chairman, Peter Ogden and John Hawkins throughout the year.
It reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Committee retained specialist recruitment consultants to identify a shortlist of candidates for the position of Chief Executive.
Interviews were conducted following which a recommendation was made to and approved by the Board.
The Nomination Committee met twice during 2003 and all three members were in attendance at both meetings.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Companys website www.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 27.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprised Peter Ogden Chairman and John Hawkins throughout the year.
The Company was not compliant with the 2003 FRC Code as it requires the Audit Committee to comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
Stephen Hill was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2004.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and both members attended all meetings.
The Audit Committees responsibilities include: reviewing the scope, cost effectiveness and independence of the external auditors: evaluating the Groups risk management and internal control activities: overseeing the discharge of the directors responsibilities: and reviewing the Groups annual and interim financial statements, paying particular attention to accounting policies and areas requiring a major element of judgement.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Companys website www.
A formal policy on the payment of non-audit fees to the external auditors has been adopted during the year.
The areas in which it is considered that the external auditors can add value to the Group, without compromising their independence, are tax compliance, tax advice and accounting advice subject to maximum aggregate non-audit fees of 1 3 of the preceding years Group audit fee.
Any other potential engagement for non-audit services must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee who will assess any effect on the auditors independence.
A full copy of this policy can be found on the Companys website www.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board aims to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets, recognising the such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls was in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 and up to the date of this report.
The key features of the internal control system operated throughout the year are described below.
The Group operates a Control and Risk Self Assessment CRSA approach to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks affecting the Group.
Each business function has established procedures and controls to identify and minimise business, operational and financial risks.
These procedures and controls include the segregation of duties, provision of regular performance information and exception reports, approval procedures for key transactions and the maintenance of proper records.
The Groups programme of insurance covers the major risks to the Groups assets and business and is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group does not have an internal audit function as senior members of the finance team perform these duties on a regular basis during visits to the key businesses of the Group.
The Audit Committee periodically reviews the effectiveness of these arrangements.
The above processes and disclosures do not cover the Companys material joint venture, Symbian.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue with its shareholders and communicates regularly with them throughout the year, usually by way of meetings with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
General presentations are made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director at the time of the announcement of the interim and final results and any feedback received is circulated to the Board as soon as practicable.
The Company communicates more widely through its Annual Report and website.
In addition, the AGM is an ideal forum at which private and institutional investors are encouraged to participate.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees are available at the AGM to answer relevant questions from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the date of the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The notice of meeting for the forthcoming AGM is set out on pages 65 and 66.
SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL POLICY The directors consider that the Groups business of providing industrial wireless data communications systems has a positive social impact by reducing the need for paper intensive processes and distribution.
It is the Groups policy to meet the statutory requirements placed on it and adopt good environmental practice in respect of premises, consumption of resources, product development and manufacturing.
The directors recognise the importance of considering the impact of the Groups operations on all its stakeholders whether they are employees, suppliers, shareholders, customers or local communities.
Psion 2003 25 Report on Corporate Governance STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The Directors consider that during the year, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Hampel Code except as follows: D. 3.1The Audit Committee comprised only two independent non-executive directors until the appointment of Stephen Hill on 1 January 2004.
The Directors consider that during the year, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the 2003 FRC Code except as follows: A.
3.2 Independent non-executive directors comprise slightly less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and is satisfied that the current balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
6 The Board considers that its performance evaluations should be done on the most appropriate basis.
It is currently reviewing the most appropriate performance evaluation method and will comply with this provision for the year ended 31 December 2004.
C. 3.1The Audit Committee comprised only two independent non-executive directors until the appointment of Stephen Hill on 1 January 2004.
C. 3.4 The Audit Committee is currently reviewing the arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and will report on these arrangements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
GOING CONCERN BASIS After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Psion 2003 26 Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules, and a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a formally constituted committee and is comprised exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
The members of the Committee are Peter Ogden Chairman and John Hawkins.
The Committee met four times during 2003 and both members of the committee attended all four meetings.
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the Groups remuneration policy for the Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Company, the executive directors and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
In order to assure his independence, the Committee will also review and recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Company Secretary.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the executive members of the Board, subject to the limits contained in the Articles of Association.
The Committee is also responsible for determining targets for any performance related pay schemes, the policy and scope of pension arrangements and service agreements, termination payments and compensation commitments for the executive directors.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website www.
No director is involved in the decision regarding his own remuneration.
Remuneration Policy It is the Groups policy to ensure members of the executive management of the Company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
In determining such packages and arrangements, due regard is given to the comments and recommendations of the relevant FRC Code in force at the time as well as the UK Listing Authority and associated guidance.
In implementing this policy, pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are also taken into account, especially when determining annual salary increases.
The main components of the executive directors remuneration are as follows: Basic salary and benefits Basic salaries are reviewed annually, usually in March, and are determined by the Remuneration Committees assessment of the market rate for relevant positions and the individual directors experience, performance and value to the business.
In addition to basic salary, the executive directors receive certain benefits, principally a car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
Annual base salaries of directors appointed during the year or after the year end are as follows: Alistair Crawford 285,000 Norbert Dawalibi CAN$375,000 Bill Jessup 200,000 Performance related remuneration The Remuneration Committee considers it important that the executive directors remuneration include a significant performance based element to align directors interests with the Groups shareholders and to encourage retention.
Alistair Crawford has an annual target bonus of 50% of base salary, of which 70% is based on performance targets set for the Group by the Remuneration Committee and 30% based on personal objectives agreed with the Remuneration Committee.
For the four month period 1 September to 31 December 2003, 80% of the applicable pro rata on-target bonus was guaranteed.
The Remuneration Committee will meet after the announcement of the results for the year ended 31 December 2003 to calculate what proportion of the balancing 20% is payable having regard to the performance of Alistair Crawford.
Norbert Dawalibi has an annual target bonus of 50% of base salary.
The payment of this bonus is dependent upon the achievement of a weighted average of three performance criteria relating to Psion Teklogix: profit before tax, revenue and working capital cash generation.
The bonus payment is adjustable in line with the proportion of each target achieved up to a maximum amount of 145% of base salary where targets are significantly exceeded.
Ian McElroy had a fixed term contract dated 24 March 2002, in relation to his appointment as Chief Executive, which expired on 30 June 2003.
Under this contract, he was entitled to a payment in lieu of notice of CAN$134,000 and a bonus of up to CAN$200,000 based on the delivery of shareholder value to be assessed by the non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors reviewed Ian McElroys performance during this period and agreed that the full amount of CAN$200,000 was payable.
Bill Jessup has an annual target bonus of 40% of base salary, of which 70% is based on performance targets set for the Group by the Remuneration Committee and 30% based on personal objectives agreed with the Remuneration Committee.
Psion 2003 27 Directors Remuneration Report UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued Share options The Remuneration Committee determines the basis on which options are granted to executive directors and employees throughout the Group having regard to personal performance and achievement of objectives.
Share options are normally granted to executive directors twice a year.
As part of Alistair Crawfords recruitment package, the Company has committed to granting Alistair Crawford a further 2.5 million options after the results announcement in March and a further 1.5 million options in each of September 2004 and September 2005.
Of the options granted to Alistair Crawford in 2003, 60% are exercisable subject to Psions total shareholder return the TSR being above the median of the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index the comparator group, 20% are exercisable subject to the TSR being in the top 40 percentile of the comparator group and 20% are exercisable subject to the TSR being in the top 25 percentile of the comparator group.
The options are not exercisable until three years after grant and will lapse if the performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of grant.
The options granted to Norbert Dawalibi in October 2003 are exercisable subject to the adjusted earnings per share growth of the Company over the life of the option up to the date of exercise exceeding the growth in the Retail Prices Index by an average of at least 3% per annum.
These options will lapse if this performance condition has not been met by the fifth anniversary of grant.
It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee to continue to grant options subject to performance conditions and with limited re-testing.
Further details of the share options held by directors, including gains made during the year, are given on page 31.
The Company does not operate any long-term incentive schemes other than the share option scheme described above.
No significant amendments are proposed to be made to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of a director to share options.
Pension Arrangements From 1 January 2004, Alistair Crawford and Bill Jessup were members of the Psion PLC Pension Scheme the Scheme and, to the extent permissible by Inland Revenue limits, the Company matched their contributions to the Scheme up to maximum of 8% of base salary.
On 1 March 2004, the Scheme was replaced by a Group Personal Pension Plan GPP and the Company ceased contributing to the Scheme.
To the extent permissible by Inland Revenue limits, the Company matches Alistair Crawfords and Bill Jessups contributions to the GPP up to a maximum of 8% of base salary.
In the case of Norbert Dawalibi and David Potter, the Company matches the directors contribution to their personal pension plan of 2% and 8% of base salary respectively.
Pension contributions are based solely on base salary and are not subject to performance conditions.
Directors Service Agreements Service agreements are negotiated on an individual basis as part of the overall remuneration package.
The date and notice period of the directors service agreements are as follows: Date of Contract Notice Period Alistair Crawford 9 April 2003 Twelve months effective 1 September 2003 Norbert Dawalibi 30 June 2003 Twelve months Bill Jessup 23 December 2003 Twelve months effective 1 January 2004 David Potter 8 March 1988 Six months It was necessary to offer initially longer contract periods in order to secure Alistair Crawfords and Bill Jessups appointment.
Alistair Crawfords appointment can be terminated by either side giving 12 months notice in writing where such notice expires no earlier than 31 March 2005.
Bill Jessup was appointed for an initial term of eighteen months with a rolling twelve month notice of termination by either party after the first six months.
As an alternative to giving notice under Alistair Crawfords or Bill Jessups service contracts the Company may, in its absolute discretion, terminate the relevant contract at any time by paying the respective Director a sum equal to his salary and the value of other benefits but excluding any bonus for the period his service contract would otherwise have continued.
In the event that either directors employment terminates during any bonus year, they are entitled to receive a bonus calculated on a pro rata basis.
Norbert Dawalibis service contract may be terminated by giving three months notice to Psion Teklogix or without notice by Psion Teklogix for just cause.
Where Psion Teklogix terminates Norbert Dawalibis contract other than for just cause, he is entitled to receive, in lieu of notice, a severance package consisting of 12 months base salary plus any applicable bonus.
Executive directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the first AGM subsequent to appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
External Appointments It is the Companys policy that its executive directors may be allowed to take a very limited number of outside directorships where it is considered that the appointment would not impinge on their principal employment.
Individuals may retain any remuneration received from such services.
Psion 2003 28 Directors Remuneration Report UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued Appointment of Non-Executive Directors Each of the non-executive directors has been appointed by the Company pursuant to a letter of appointment which, subject to the re-election of the non-executive directors by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment and then subsequently at least once every three years, continues until terminated by either party giving notice.
In the case of John Hawkins and Peter Ogdens appointments, three months notice of termination is required by either party.
In the case of Stephen Hills and Ian McElroys appointments, the Company is required to give the relevant director three months notice to terminate his appointment, while the relevant director may terminate his appointment with immediate effect without notice to the Company.
It is intended that John Hawkins and Peter Ogdens letters of appointment will be amended so that they are not required to give notice of termination to the Company.
None of the non-executive directors letters of appointment contain provisions relating to compensation for any early termination of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive members of the Board taking into account current practices in other similar companies.
The basic fee paid to each non-executive director is 30,000 per annum.
No further fees for work performed for the Company in respect of membership of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are paid.
Non-executive directors cannot participate in the Companys share option scheme and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys performance measured as total shareholder return over a five year period to 31 December 2003, compared with the total return performance of the FTSE IT Hardware and FTSE All Share Indices.
These comparative indices were chosen as they represent the performance of the technology sector specifically and the market in general.
Total Shareholder Return Value of hypothetical 100 holding 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 FTSE All Share Psion FTSE IT Hardware Psion 2003 29 Dec 98 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Directors Remuneration Report AUDITED INFORMATION Directors Remuneration The emoluments of the directors of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2002 are shown below: Pension Basic contri- 2003 2002 Fees salary Benefits Bonus Subtotal butions Total Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s CHAIRMAN David Potter 100 11 111 8 119 108 EXECUTIVE Alistair Crawford appointed 1 September 2003 95 3 38 136 136 Andy Clegg resigned 31 December 2003 81 7 30 118 6 124 148 Charles Davies resigned 7 March 2003 255 30 2 32 21 2 Norbert Dawalibi appointed 2 May 2003 103 6122 231 2 233 Ian McElroy became non-executive on 1 July 2003 78 2 145 225 2 227 409 NON-EXECUTIVE John Hawkins 30 30 30 25 Stephen Hill appointed 2 May 2003 20 20 20 Ian McElroy became non-executive on 1 July 2003 15 15 15 Peter Ogden 30 30 30 25 Previous Directors 228 95 482 34 335 946 20 966 1,155 Two directors were 2002 two members of the Companys defined contribution pension scheme.
