qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 14 Corporate governance It is the Groups policy to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and staff of high calibre and integrity.
Nomination Committee the members The Board conducts regular reviews Operational and financial reports of this Committee are Mr J W Matthews of the Groups strategic direction.
are prepared and distributed to the Chairman and non-executive director, Board on a monthly basis.
Actual Mr R G Orf and Mr A M Robinson both Country and regional strategic objectives, results are reviewed against budget independent non-executive directors.
quarterly plans and performance targets and forecast and explanations are The Committee meets as required.
Its for 2004 have been set by the executive received for all material movements.
responsibilities include reviewing the directors and are regularly reviewed by The senior management team are Board structure, size and composition, the main Board in the context of the integrally involved in the business nominating candidates to the Board Groups overall objectives.
and to this extent regularly discuss to fill Board vacancies when they arise and address issues and opportunities and recommending directors who are The control framework and key with regional and functional teams.
retiring by rotation to be put forward procedures which were in place Formal business review meetings, for re-election.
throughout the year ended 31 December chaired by the Chief Executive, Mark 2003 comprise the following: Dixon, are held with the regional Remuneration Committee the teams and functional heads on a members of this Committee are Mr A M The executive directors the Group monthly basis.
Robinson Chairman and independent executive normally meet monthly There is a Group-wide policy non-executive director, Mr J W together with certain other senior governing appraisal and approval Matthews non-executive director and executives to consider Group financial of investment and capital expenditure Mr R G Orf independent non-executive performance, business development and asset disposals.
A statement setting out the and Group management issues.
role and responsibility of this Committee Directors of key operating companies and the Groups remuneration policy is meet regularly to manage their Other key policies and control shown on page 16. respective businesses.
procedures including finance, operations, and health and safety Major business risks and their having Group-wide application financial implications are appraised INTERNAL CONTROL are available to all staff on by the responsible executives web-based systems.
as a part of the budget process The Board acknowledges its overall and these are endorsed by regional responsibility for the Groups system management.
Key risks are reported to The Groups internal audit remit is to of internal control and for reviewing the Board and the Audit Committee.
report to the Audit Committee on the the effectiveness of that system The appropriateness of controls is Groups worldwide operations.
considered by the executives, having budget, programme of work and its regard to cost benefit, materiality and findings, including any material control The internal control processes have the likelihood of risks crystallising.
issues and resultant actions, are been designed to identify, evaluate reviewed quarterly.
and manage the key risks that the Country and regional budgets, Group encounters in pursuing its containing financial and operating To underpin the effectiveness of controls, objectives.
Internal control processes targets, capital expenditure it is the Groups policy to recruit and within the Regus Group encompass proposals and performance develop appropriately skilled all controls, including financial, indicators, are reviewed by the management and staff of high calibre operational and compliance controls Group executive and must support and integrity.
However, such regional business strategies.
a system is designed to manage rather On a monthly basis, the Board High standards of business ethics than eliminate the risk of failure to reviews and discusses the financial and compliance with laws, regulations achieve business objectives, and can and operational performance of the and internal policies are demanded only provide reasonable and not absolute Group and its respective regions.
qxd 8 4 04 11:53 am Page 15 Corporate governance The following key mechanisms COMMUNICATIONS WITH were available to the Board at various SHAREHOLDERS times during the year in the conduct of its review of internal controls: The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue An ongoing process, through Board with shareholders.
Group financial meetings, senior management reports and announcements meetings and divisional reviews as are accessible via the Groups well as other management meetings, Internet site.
for the formal identification of significant operational risks and Insofar as securities laws and mitigating control processes: other applicable requirements allow, the Company corresponds on The Treasury Risk Committee a range of subjects with its individual comprising the Group Finance shareholders who also have an Director, Company Secretary and opportunity to question the Board, Group Treasurer, which meets to as well as the Chairmen of the Audit consider the specific risks associated and Remuneration Committees, with treasury transactions, including at the Annual General Meeting.
the approval of all transactions in financial derivatives: A series of internal audit reviews of country regions covering the financial, operational and overhead functions.
These reviews are based on the identified risks.
The findings and recommendations of each review are reported to management and the Audit Committee: An embedded system of reporting the effectiveness of key financial, operational and compliance controls.
This is a comprehensive selfassessment intranet system.
Results and action plans are reviewed by senior management and summarised for the Board: A multi-disciplinary Group risk forum, chaired by Rudolf Lobo, reports to the Board on a quarterly basis.
This forum considers all aspects of risk identification and management.
The forum is a key process by which the Board assesses the overall effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 16 Directors remuneration report Incentive payments are conditional upon the Group achieving stretched performance targets.
INTRODUCTION The Committee does not make BASIC SALARY AND BENEFITS recommendations on the remuneration This remuneration report sets out the of non-executive directors, which Salaries are reviewed annually and Companys policy on the remuneration is a matter solely for the full Board.
determined by the Committee, taking of executive and non-executive directors The members of the Remuneration into account the performance of the together with details of directors Committee attend the Companys Annual individual directors over the previous remuneration packages and service General Meeting and are available to 12 months and the pay and employment contracts.
This report will be put answer shareholders questions about conditions elsewhere in the Group.
to a vote of the Companys shareholders directors remuneration.
Any increases in basic salary are effective at the Annual General Meeting on from 1 January in each year.
There was no change in employment terms of any of the executive or nonThe remuneration table included within The following information is not executive directors during 2003.
From this report also shows benefits received.
subject to audit: 1 January 2004, Mr R J G Lobos salary The main benefits relate to the provision increased from 165,000 to 180,000. of company cars and or company car The committee has used no external allowance and the provision of private THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE consultant or expert in its deliberations.
medical insurance for the directors and their immediate family.
In 2003, Mark The Remuneration Committee is chaired Dixons benefits principally include costs by Mr A M Robinson: its other members REMUNERATION POLICY relating to his relocation to the USA.
are Mr R G Orf and Mr J W Matthews.
Prior to 1 May 2003, it was chaired by Remuneration policy for executive Mr J W Matthews.
All members of this directors centres on ensuring that ANNUAL PERFORMANCE BONUS Committee are non-executive directors.
remuneration packages are sufficiently Other directors may be invited to attend competitive to attract, retain and Under the annual bonus scheme the some meetings of the Committee in an motivate the right calibre of executive executive directors are entitled to an advisory capacity as the Committee directors.
Incentive payments are annual bonus of up to 40% of their basic considers appropriate.
The Committee conditional upon the Group achieving salary, which is payable provided the will consider all material elements of stretched performance targets so budget targets for the relevant financial remuneration policy, remuneration and to align incentive awards paid to year are achieved.
No bonuses are incentives of executive directors directors directly with the interests payable for 2003. and senior management, with reference of shareholders.
to independent remuneration research and professional advice, in accordance If appropriate the Remuneration LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN with the Combined Code on Committee would use the services of Corporate Governance.
external consultants to help it agree Under the Regus Super Bonus Plan, the packages reflecting the remuneration executive directors are entitled to receive The Committee will make policy.
The constituent parts of an annual share award of up to 100% of recommendations to the Board of those packages are set out in the their basic salary or a cash award of up Directors on the framework for executive following paragraphs.
to 50% of their basic salary, which is remuneration and its cost.
The Board of payable provided performance exceeds Directors is responsible for implementing Non-executive directors are remunerated budget targets, and is subject to the the recommendations and agreeing the with fees, set at a level which will attract director remaining in employment with remuneration package of individual individuals with necessary experience the Company for up to three years directors.
Directors are not permitted, and ability.
under Regus Group plcs Articles of Association, to vote on their own terms and conditions of remuneration.
qxd 8 4 04 11:53 am Page 17 Directors remuneration report SHARE OPTIONS Board.
In this summary, the term Awards will be personal to the participant AND RESTRICTED SHARES Appropriate Committee means, in and may not be transferred except, relation to a director, the remuneration with the consent of the Appropriate The Group believes that share ownership committee and, in relation to any other Committee, to a family member by employees, including the executive person, the Board or an appropriate spouse and minor children or family directors, strengthens the link between committee of the Board.
trust of an employee or director.
their personal interests and those of ordinary shareholders.
Plan limits established a number of employee share plans, including the Regus Global Share The Award Plan is divided into two The maximum number of unissued Plan and the Regus International sub-plans under one of which awards Shares over which awards may be Sharesave Plan.
will be granted over ordinary shares granted on any date may not, when of the Company Shares and under added to the number of Shares issued All options under these Plans either the other of which participants will be and remaining issuable in respect of lapsed or were exercised on the granted awards that entitle them to a awards or options granted under the effective date of the Scheme of cash payment calculated by reference to Award Plan and the Regus Group Share Arrangement 1 December 2003. the value of Shares.
The remuneration Option Plan in the previous 10 years, The Company is proposing to adopt at committee may create further sub-plans.
exceed 10 per cent of the equity share the forthcoming Annual General Meeting capital of the Company.
Eligibility No award may be granted after the tenth i Regus Group Restricted Award Plan: Awards may be granted to anniversary of the date on which the and employees and executive directors Award Plan is approved by the Board.
ii Regus Group Share Option Plan of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group at the discretion of the 6.
Awards may SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS also be granted to or transferred to Awards may be granted subject OF THE REGUS GROUP RESTRICTED certain relatives spouse and minor to a performance target and, if so, AWARD PLAN THE AWARD PLAN children and family trusts of an the achievement of that performance employee or executive director.
target will normally be a condition 1.
Administration precedent to an award vesting.
Awards Overall responsibility for the The Appropriate Committee has administration of the Award Plan will be Awards may take one of three the discretion to change the vested in the remuneration committee of forms.
An award may be a deferred performance target from time to time the Board.
The remuneration committee right to receive Shares or a right to if events happen which make it fair will also be responsible for the day-toacquire, for no cost, Shares, in either and reasonable to do so but not so day administration of the Award Plan case subject, normally, to continued as to make the performance target insofar as it relates to any director of the employment.
Alternatively, an award may materially easier or more difficult Company.
The remuneration committee take the form of a transfer to satisfy.
will thus determine the terms of the to the participant of Shares but awards granted to such persons and on terms that those Shares will be 7.
Vesting and exercise exercise any discretions in relation to forfeited if conditions relating to, such persons.
for example, continued employment Where the award takes the form of an are not met.
Awards may be satisfied option, vesting will entitle the participant For other participants, these functions either by the issue of Shares or by the to exercise the award during such period may be carried out by the Board transfer of Shares from an employee as the Appropriate Committee may or an appropriate committee of the trust or by treasury shares.
have specified at the time of grant.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 18 Directors remuneration report In any other case, the vesting of an 11.
Variation of capital SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL award will result in the Shares being FEATURES OF THE REGUS transferred to the participant or, as the In the event of a variation of the GROUP SHARE OPTION PLAN case may be, the Shares ceasing to be Companys share capital, or in such THE OPTION PLAN subject to forfeiture.
other circumstances as the Appropriate Committee considers appropriate, 1.
Termination of employment it may adjust awards in such manner as it determines to be reasonable.
Overall responsibility for the administration If a participant ceases to be employed of the Option Plan will be vested in the within the Group for cause, his award 12.
Benefits non-pensionable remuneration committee of the Board of will lapse and the Shares will be Directors.
The remuneration committee forfeited unless the Appropriate Benefits under the Award Plan will will also be responsible for the day to Committee decides otherwise.
day administration of the Option Plan insofar as it relates to any director of the If a participant ceases to be employed 13.
The remuneration committee for any other reason, he may exercise will thus determine the terms of the any awards which have vested where the The remuneration committee may make options granted to such persons and awards take the form of options during such amendments to the Award Plan exercise any discretions in relation to such period as the Appropriate Committee either as are necessary or desirable such persons.
For other participants, may decide.
Where the award has not to obtain or retain the approval, where these functions may be carried out by vested, it will lapse and the Shares will applicable, of the relevant tax authorities the Board or a committee of the Board.
be forfeited unless the Appropriate or to take account of changes to In this summary, the term Appropriate Committee decides otherwise.
Committee means, in relation to a director, the remuneration committee 9.
Change of control The remuneration committee may and, in relation to any other person, the also make such amendments to the Board or an appropriate committee of Awards will vest in the event of Award Plan and to any award as the Board.
a change in control, a reorganisation, may be necessary or desirable to obtain an amalgamation or a voluntary windingor maintain favourable tax, exchange 2.
The sub-plans up of the Company.
In the event control or regulatory treatment for of any other company acquiring control participants or for any company The Option Plan is divided into a number of the Company, awards may, with in the Group.
of sub-plans designed to allow the agreement of that company, be employees and directors to be granted exchanged for awards over shares Except as described above or for tax efficient options wherever possible.
amendments designed to ease the There is also a sub-plan allowing administration of the Award Plan, no participants to be granted awards that 10.
Listing amendment which is to the advantage entitle them to a cash payment of employees or participants may be calculated by reference to the increase in Application will be made for admission made to those provisions dealing with the market value of shares between to the Official List of the UK Listing eligibility, plan limits, the terms of awards grant and exercise.
The remuneration Authority of Shares issued under the or the adjustment of awards without committee may create further sub-plans.
Award Plan and for permission to trade the prior approval of shareholders in those shares.
Shares issued under at a general meeting.
Eligibility the Plan will rank equally in all respects with existing Shares except for rights Options may be granted to employees which attach to Shares by reference and directors of the Company and its to a record date prior to the date subsidiaries the Group at the discretion of allotment.
qxd 5 4 04 5:18 pm Page 19 Directors remuneration report Options may also be granted to No option may be granted after the tenth of the Company.
In the event of any or transferred to certain relatives anniversary of the date on which the other company acquiring control of the spouse and minor children and family Option Plan is approved by the Board.
Company, options may, with agreement of trusts of an employee or director.
that company, be exchanged for options 7.
Performance targets over shares in the acquiring company.
Options Options may be granted subject 11.
Listing Options will entitle the holder to acquire to a performance target and, if so, ordinary shares of the Company the achievement of that performance Application will be made for admission Shares.
Options may either be target will normally be a condition to the Official List of the UK Listing options to subscribe for newly issued precedent to the right of exercise.
Authority of Shares issued under the Shares or options to purchase existing The Appropriate Committee has the Option Plan and for permission to trade Shares from an employee trust or from discretion to change the performance in those shares.
Shares issued on the treasury.
Options will be personal to the target from time to time if events happen exercise of options will rank equally in all option holder and may not be transferred which make it fair and reasonable respects with existing Shares except for except, with the consent of the to do so but not so as to make the rights which attach to Shares by reference Appropriate Committee, to a family performance target materially easier to a record date prior to the date member spouse and minor children or or more difficult to satisfy.
family trust of an employee or director.
Exercise price Options are exercisable normally only In the event of a variation of the The exercise price of each option may during such period as the Appropriate Companys share capital, or in such not be less than the market value as Committee may decide at the time other circumstances as the Appropriate determined in accordance with the of grant: the period may not end later Committee considers appropriate, Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 than the tenth anniversary of grant.
it may adjust options in such manner of a Share for the dealing day as it determines to be reasonable.
immediately preceding the date of grant 9.
Termination of employment or, where options are granted pursuant 13.
Benefits non-pensionable to an invitation, the date of the invitation.
If a participant ceases to be employed within the Group for cause, his option Benefits under the Option Plan will not 6.
Plan limit will lapse unless the Appropriate be pensionable.
If a The maximum number of unissued participant ceases to be employed for 14.
Amendments Shares over which options may be any other reason, he may exercise any granted on any date may not, when options which are already exercisable The remuneration committee may added to the number of Shares issued and, at the discretion of the Appropriate make such amendments to the Option and remaining issuable in respect of Committee, any other options in the six Plan either as are necessary or desirable options or awards granted under the months following the date on which his to obtain or retain the approval, where Option Plan and the Regus Group employment ends or during such longer applicable, of the relevant tax authorities or Restricted Award Plan in the previous period, not exceeding 42 months, as the to take account of changes to applicable 10 years, exceed 10 per cent.
of the Appropriate Committee may decide.
The remuneration committee equity share capital of the Company.
may also make such amendments to the In addition, Options may not be granted 10.
Change of control Options Plan and to any option as may be over more than 10,000,000 Shares necessary or desirable to obtain or under that part of the Plan which Options may be exercised in the event maintain favourable tax, exchange control allows for the grant of tax-favoured of a change in control, a reorganisation, an or regulatory treatment for participants or options to participants in the USA.
amalgamation or a voluntary winding-up for any company in the Group.
qxd 5 4 04 5:18 pm Page 20 Directors remuneration report The Company was a member of the FTSE 250 Index at the time of flotation and the performance awards under the share option schemes are linked to that index.
Except as described above or for The main benefits to executive directors, TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN amendments designed to ease the who contribute a percentage of their PERFORMANCE administration of the Options Plan, no gross salaries to the scheme, are: amendment which is to the advantage The graph on the left illustrates Regus A pension, based on the value of employees or participants may be total shareholder return since flotation of of fund built up from personal made to those provisions dealing with the Group in 2000 relative to the FTSE contributions, at any age between eligibility, plan limits, the terms of options 250 Index, in accordance with paragraph 50 and the normal pension or the adjustment of options without 4 of the Directors Remuneration Report age of 65: the prior approval of shareholders Regulations 2002. at a general meeting.
A tax-free cash sum, payable when taking the benefits: The Company was a member of the During 1999, the Group established FTSE 250 Index at the time of flotation Life assurance cover based the Regus Employee Trust.
The Trust and the performance awards under on the level of contributions is a discretionary trust for the benefit of the share option schemes are linked with the opportunity to purchase employees, including executive directors.
additional cover, subject to the As at 29 March 2004, it held no shares Inland Revenue limit of 5% of net and 2.1 million in cash.
Accordingly this is considered to be the relevant earnings: and most appropriate broad equity market Pension to spouse payable index for the purpose of measuring PENSIONS on death.
All executive directors are subject The executive directors participate to the Inland Revenue cap on the in the Companys Money Purchase SERVICE CONTRACTS amount of salary which may be treated Personal Pension Scheme.
The Company matches employee The Company has adopted the following contributions up to a maximum policy on directors service contracts: of 10% of basic salary.
i executive directors and the Company are each required to give 12 months notice of termination there being no fixed term : ii non-executive directors enter into Value 3 year appointment letters, which 120 120 may be terminated by the director or 100 100 the Company on 6 months notice.
80 80 The Companys policy is that payments 60 60 on termination should be restricted to the value of remuneration for the 40 40 notice period.
On 1 July 2000 Mr M L J 20 20 Dixon and Mr R J G Lobo entered into full-time rolling service agreements with Regus Management Limited.
These are 31 DEC 2000 31 DEC 2001 31 DEC 2002 31 DEC 2003 terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months notice to the other This graph looks at the value, by the party or automatically on the respective end of 2003, of 100 invested in Regus FTSE 250 on 31 December 2000 compared with that directors reaching the age of 65.
Regus of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
qxd 5 4 04 5:18 pm Page 21 Directors remuneration report There are no provisions for These arrangements are for three The main benefits relate to the provision of company cars and or company compensation for loss of office other years, terminable on six months car allowance for private cars and the than payment of any outstanding salary.
notice by the Company or provision of private medical insurance the directors.
for the directors and their immediate Mr J W Matthews, Mr R G Orf and family.
In 2003, Mark Dixons benefits Mr A M Robinson, as non-executive There are no provisions for principally include costs relating to his directors, have entered into letters compensation for loss of office other relocation to the USA.
of appointment dated 2nd October 2003. than payment of any outstanding fees.
The following information within the Directors Remuneration Report is subject to audit: Directors Remuneration Pension Pension Total Total Scheme Scheme Salary Remuneration Remuneration Contributions Contributions fees Benefits 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Mark Dixon 395.0 164.0 559.0 152.7 14.1 27.6 Stephen Stamp 125.0 7.5 132.5 159.8 10.8 13.0 Rudolf Lobo 165.0 10.5 175.5 156.6 12.4 11.6 Non-executive John Matthews 90.0 90.0 28.1 Roger Orf 25.0 25.0 9.1 Martin Robinson 25.0 25.0 7.5 825.0 182.0 1,007.0 513.8 37.3 52.2 No bonuses were paid in either 2003 or 2002.
Mr Stamp resigned 2 October 2003 Directors Shareholdings In 2002, the following contractual emoluments were irrevocably waived by the directors.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares No emoluments were waived in 2003: Beneficial holdings Beneficial holdings Director Amounts waived in 2002 000 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 Mark Dixon 270.0 Mark Dixon 365,329,286 365,329,286 Stephen Stamp 35.0 Rudolf Lobo 127,098 38,462 Rudolf Lobo 20.0 John Matthews 479,617 359,724 John Matthews 29.4 Martin Robinson Roger Orf 5.9 Roger Orf 300,000 300,000 Martin Robinson 2.5 Mr Dixons beneficial ownership of shares is calculated by attributing to him all shares owned by Maxon Investments BV, an entity in which Mr Dixon holds 100% of the share capital.
