Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy Pension arrangements The Board as a whole is responsible for the overall The Company makes annual contributions to individual remuneration policy.
The remuneration and nomination pension policies for each executive director, based upon committee is responsible for making recommendations to the a percentage of basic salary, as follows: Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys D R McMurtry 41% of previous years salary framework of executive remuneration.
It makes D J Deer 41% of previous years salary recommendations to the Board on specific remuneration B R Taylor 15% of current years salary packages for each of the executive directors.
AC G Roberts 15% of current years salary During the year, the committee appointed William M Mercer G McFarland participates in the Companys defined benefit to give advice in relation to certain benefits for the directors.
scheme and more details are given in note 4 on page 26.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Details of directors remuneration including pensions, which Companys pension schemes.
form the audited section of this report, are shown in note 4 on page 26.
Service Contracts No director has a service contract.
The three non-executive Remuneration and nomination committee directors have been appointed under contracts for services The committee was chaired by Joe McGeehan until 23rd which are intended to continue for an initial period of three July 2003, the other members to this date being Sir David years.
However, these contracts may be terminated by either McMurtry, Chairman and Chief Executive and John Deer, the Company or the director on one months notice.
From 23rd July 2003, David Snowden chair from 23rd July 2003 and Terry Garthwaite, nonexecutive directors, joined the committee.
Neither the Benefits Chairman nor the Deputy Chairman participate in matters Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are relating to his own remuneration.
Remuneration of the nonsubject to income tax and no benefits are pensionable.
The executive directors is determined by the executive directors.
benefits are included in the directors remuneration table on The committee has access to internal and external advisers page 26. when required.
The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive Share options and long-term incentive schemes directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes benefit packages and incentives which are linked to personal in operation for the directors.
performance and the overall performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests of the shareholders.
The remuneration Performance graph and nomination committee reviews annually all aspects of In accordance with new legislation, the graph below shows the executive directors remuneration, performance the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, and employment.
compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index for comparison.
Basic salary Basic salaries are reviewed by the committee to take effect Total shareholder return from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial data taken from a cross- 150 150 section of UK companies within the electronic and 140 130 engineering sectors.
120 110 Appreciation award 100 100 90 The Company operates an annual appreciation award 80 scheme for all group employees and directors, on which no 70 pension contributions are made.
The award is based upon 60 group profit performance and the achievement of a number 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 50 of strategic objectives to maintain the long-term development Year ended 30th June of the Group.
The non-executive directors do not participate Rebased to 100 at 30th June 1998 in the appreciation award scheme.
Renishaw FTSE mid 250 By order of the Board J P McGeehan Chairman, Remuneration and nomination committee 23rd July 2003 19 Return
