Remuneration report Our remuneration policy is to ensure that executive Directors remuneration reflects long-term objectives of the Group, Directors performance, and the interests of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee options under the Executive Share Option Scheme the Scheme to The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Keith Stuart and all of the executive Directors on an annual basis.
is composed exclusively of independent non-executive Directors.
The other members of the Committee are Bill Alexander and In line with this policy the Remuneration Committee made awards Jamie Pike.
under the LTIP and the Scheme to the executive Directors in 2003 on the following basis.
The principal functions of the Committee are to make recommendations to the Board regarding the Companys The former Group Chief Executive received a conditional award of policy on the remuneration and conditions of employment of shares under the LTIP with a face value equivalent to 100% of salary executive Directors of the Company: to determine and approve and a grant of executive options with a face value of 100% of their specific remuneration, benefits and terms of employment: salary.
The other executive Directors each received a conditional and to determine the remuneration of the Company Chairman.
award under the LTIP of shares with a face value equivalent to 65% The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found on the of salary and a grant of executive options with a face value Company website, www.
com equivalent to 100% of salary.
Both the LTIPs and Executive options are subject to performance conditions.
The grant and award made to In formulating their recommendations, the Committee seeks our overseas Director was based on a comparable UK salary to the views of other Board members as necessary.
During the ensure that the awards and grants are broadly consistent for all period under review, the Committee sought the assistance executive Directors.
of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive on matters relating to their subordinates performance and remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the policy on longThe Chairman and Group Chief Executive normally attend term incentives to ensure that it is broadly in line with market practice meetings of the Remuneration Committee, but are not and to maintain its continued effectiveness.
present when any aspect of their own remuneration is under discussion.
Base salary Base salaries are set by reference to independent advice on median Remuneration policy salary levels for similar roles in other comparable companies.
The The remuneration policy in respect of the executive Directors is to Committee also considers each Directors experience, performance ensure that individual remuneration reflects the long-term objectives and responsibilities, as well as base salaries elsewhere in the of the Group, the performance of each Director and the interests of Company.
Base salaries are generally reviewed on an annual basis.
the shareholders: and that the overall remuneration package enables No adjustments to the base salaries of executive Directors were the Company to attract and retain high calibre executives.
To assist with this, the Committee has appointed Mercer Human Long-term incentive schemes Resource Consulting Mercer to provide independent market i Long Term Incentive Plan information and remuneration advice.
All executive Directors are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Under the LTIP, participating Directors and other designated senior executives are The remuneration package of the Companys executive Directors conditionally allocated a number of the Companys Ordinary shares consists of basic salary, an annual bonus scheme, taxable benefits, at the start of each scheme year.
Conditional allocations of shares long-term incentive schemes and pension arrangements.
It is the under the LTIP were made in 2001, 2002 and 2003.
The three-year Companys policy to provide a significant portion of the total performance periods in respect of these awards commenced on potential rewards through performance based schemes.
In the year 1 January in each of those years.
2003 the fixed element of the remuneration packages for the executive Directors ranged from 44% to 64% of total remuneration.
The maximum number of shares will be received only if the Companys The details of each element of the Directors remuneration Total Shareholder Return TSR performance is ranked in the top arrangements are outlined in this Report.
quartile of the comparator group of companies.
TSR performance is a comparison of the annualised percentage growth in RMCs share price The Remuneration Committees policy on long-term incentives is to assuming all dividends and capital distributions are re-invested, with make awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and to grant the total shareholder returns of a defined peer group of companies 38 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Performance targets for Executive Options Level of Award TSR Ranking EPS Performance Target Up to one times salary Median 50% RPI 6% Above one and up to two times salary 60% RPI 8% Above two and up to three times salary 70% RPI 10% Above three and up to four times salary Upper Quartile 75% RPI 12% over a three-year period.
If the Companys TSR performance is below of at least 3% per annum more than the increase in the Retail Prices median, participants will receive no shares.
Index averaged over the performance period.
For the 2001 LTIP, participants could receive 25% of the maximum The options granted in 2003 were split into two equal tranches.
value of shares for median performance.
One tranche will only be exercisable if the TSR of RMC is at or above median relative to the TSRs of a comparator group of those companies The Companys TSR performance in respect of the 2001 awards ranked between 50 and 200 by market capitalisation in the FTSE 350 covering the period 2001 to 2003 had a TSR ranking of 6 out of the at the beginning of the performance period.
The other tranche will 13 companies in its comparator group, placing RMC in the second only be exercisable if over the performance period there has been quartile, resulting in 44% of the award vesting.
The remaining 56% an increase in the Companys EPS which, in aggregate, equates to of that award lapsed.
a compound annual growth rate of at least 6% per annum more than the increase in the Retail Prices Index averaged over the For the 2002 and 2003 LTIP, participants will receive 40% of the performance period.
maximum number of shares for median performance.
The percentage of shares participants will receive if the Company is ranked between During 2003 the Committee agreed that, in the event of option the median and top quartile will be a proportionally larger number grants in excess of one times a participants base salary, the of shares for each higher position in this quartile.
performance targets shown in the table above will apply.
The comparator group of companies for the 2001 and 2002 awards In normal circumstances the options granted are exercisable not earlier comprised the companies that were constituents of the former FTSE than three years and not later than 10 years after the date of grant Actuaries Building Materials and Merchants Index.
As reported in the and only while the executive remains in the Companys employment.
2002 Annual Report, the number of companies in that comparator In certain circumstances, for example retirement, the options are group has been reducing as a result of market consolidation and, for exercisable during the six-month period following an executive ceasing this reason, the Remuneration Committee decided that going forward to be employed by the Company but this period can be extended to a different comparator group would be used.
The comparator group 12 months at the discretion of the Committee.
for the 2003 award and future awards consists of companies ranked between 50 and 200 by market capitalisation in the FTSE 350 at The Committee believes that the combination of TSR and EPS performance the beginning of the performance period.
The Committee believes conditions will encourage shareholder value creation and improved that the FTSE 50 to 200 companies are the most relevant comparators financial performance and is consistent with good market practice.
because they include companies of similar size and complexity as RMC and are in direct competition for capital in the UK market.
The initial performance period for the 2001 and 2002 option grants is three years.
However, if the performance conditions are not satisfied ii Executive Share Option Scheme after three years, the performance period will be four years, and, if it is Senior executives, in addition to all executive Directors, participate in not satisfied after four years, the performance period will be five years.
the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The options granted in 1996, If the performance condition has not been satisfied after five years the 2001 and 2002 were granted under the1995 Scheme.
The options options will lapse.
granted in 2003 were granted under the RMC Group p. l. c. Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 which was approved by shareholders at The performance period for the 2003 option grant and future option the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
grants is three years and there will be no retesting if the performance conditions have not been met.
The options granted in 1996 can be exercised only if the increase in the Companys earnings per share excluding exceptional items EPS exceeds iii Sharesave schemes the increase in the Retail Prices Index by 6% measured over any The Group operates sharesave schemes in the UK, certain European three-year period between the date of grant and the exercise date.
Along with other employees, any executive Director who has more than six months service and is based in one The options granted in 2001 and 2002 will be exercisable only if over of the respective countries can participate in the relevant sharesave the performance period there has been an increase in the Companys scheme.
The options under the UK and European schemes may EPS which, in aggregate, equates to a compound annual growth rate normally be exercised after three or five years, at a price equivalent RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 39 RMC Group p. l. c. RMC Total Shareholder Return Remuneration report continued FTSE 350 Index Value of 100 invested x Median of the FTSE 50 to 200 x 130 x x Source: Mercer x 120 110 x 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 98 99 00 01 02 03 to not less than 80% of the market value of the shares at the date Some Directors receive benefits on a different basis depending on their employees are invited to join the plan.
The US scheme options may individual circumstances.
It is the Companys policy to provide those normally be exercised after two years at a price equivalent to 85% UK resident Directors whose pension benefits are limited by the of the market value of the shares at the time of grant.
earnings cap which was 99,000 at 31 December 2003 with additional pension and death benefits.
Grard Letourneau, who is Performance graph resident abroad, accrues benefits in accordance with his service The graph above shows RMCs total shareholder return for the five contract.
Details are provided on page 41. years to December 2003, together with, for general comparison, the TSR for the index of FTSE 350 companies, and the median TSR for Company contributions to the UK Fund and in respect of the other the FTSE 50 to 200 companies, which have been selected as the pension arrangements are based on external actuarial advice.
comparator group for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and half the awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Bonuses In 2003 the Group Chief Executive and the other executive Directors Pensions were eligible to participate in the Group Bonus Scheme.
The criteria Executive Directors who are resident in the UK are eligible to accrue on which the executive Directors bonuses were based in 2003 are benefits as members of the RMC Executives Pension Fund the UK set out in the table below.
Fund, which is a defined benefit scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
At 31 December 2003 all the executive Directors resident Annual bonus criteria for 2003 in the UK were members of the UK Fund.
David Munros pension Individual financial options are detailed on page 42. performance Personal Max PBT target target objectives total max bonus max bonus max bonus bonus The UK Fund is non-contributory for members and has a normal % salary % salary % salary % retirement age of 60 for executive Directors.
It normally provides a pension of two-thirds of final pensionable salary on retirement at age S R Walker 30 20 20 70 60, subject to the completion of at least 20 years service in the UK A R Auer 20 15 15 50 with the Group.
If less than 20 years service has been completed, M G Foster 20 25 5 50 benefits are adjusted accordingly.
Pension benefits accrued prior to G E Clark 20 25 5 50 joining the Company may also have to be taken into account.
G Letourneau 20 25 5 50 On the death of a Director before age 60, the UK Fund pays a lump For the financial year 2004 the Remuneration Committee has agreed sum of four times the current salary plus a widows pension and child that the maximum bonus that could be earned will increase from 70% allowances for up to two eligible children.
The widows pension would to 80% for the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee has agreed be equal to two-thirds of the pension that the Director would have that for 2004 the annual bonus criteria will continue to include a received had he remained in employment until age 60, and based on Group financial performance target, an individual business the Directors pensionable salary at date of death.
On the death of performance target and targets based on personal objectives.
a Director in retirement, a widows pension of two-thirds of the Directors pension entitlement is payable from the UK Fund, plus Other benefits child allowances for up to two eligible children.
Executive Directors are eligible for certain taxable benefits which include the provision of company cars and membership of a private All pensions paid from the UK Fund are subject to guaranteed annual medical insurance scheme.
increases in line with the annual rise in the Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum of 8% per annum and may be further increased at the discretion of the Company and Trustee.
No changes have been made to the benefit structure of the UK Fund during the year.
40 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Service contracts Share retention policy The standard notice period under service contracts for executive During 2002 the Committee adopted a share retention policy.
Under Directors other than Grard Letourneau who is based in France is this policy the Group Chief Executive should seek to increase his one year, including a clause which entitles a Director to receive shareholding in the Company to two times his basic salary within 12 months compensation if the contract is terminated in the first four years, the other executive Directors should seek to increase their 12 months following a change of control of the Company.
shareholdings in the Company to one-and-a-half times their basic salary within four years.
The achievement of these targets will be In other situations, termination payments are limited to the Directors subject to the acquisition of shares on the exercise of executive share normal compensation, including basic salary, annual bonus and options and shares vesting from the LTIP.
benefits, for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
There is an obligation on the Directors to mitigate any loss incurred as a result of Non-executive Director compensation their contracts being terminated prematurely by the Company and Remuneration of the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman compensation payments made by the Company reflect this.
is determined by a sub-committee of the Board comprising the Group Chief Executive and at least two other executive Directors.
Neither the The Committee believes that notice periods should normally be set at Chairman of the Company nor the other non-executive Directors a maximum of 12 months.
However, in Grard Letourneaus case, the receive any pension from the Company, nor do they participate in Committee has to take into account local laws and practices in France any of the incentive or share option schemes.
The Chairmans fees as well as UK corporate governance.
Grard Letourneau has a service are set by the Remuneration Committee and are benchmarked contract with RMC Euro SAS which is terminable at any time by three against the market reflecting his time commitment to the Company.
months notice, but, if it is terminated by RMC Euro SAS for reasons Sir John Parkers fees were originally set at 175,000 per annum in other than cause, he is entitled to compensation equivalent to twice October 2001, prior to his assuming the Chairmanship in May 2002. his annual remuneration.
Grard Letourneaus service agreement is The Committee has agreed that his fees will be increased to 220,000 subject to the provisions of the Convention Collective Nationale CCN, per annum with effect from April 2004. nation-wide agreements entered into between trade unions and employers in France.
Once such an agreement is signed, its contents become mandatory in respect of all employees including executive directors.
The majority of companies in France are subject to such collective arrangements.
Under the CCN, Grard Letourneau is entitled to a service contract with a notice period which is determined by length of service.
In his case, this entitles him to a service contract well in excess of one year.
Service contracts Notes Contract date Notice period D J C Munro 1 12 December 2003 1 year S R Walker 14 February 2003 1 year A R Auer 22 January 2003 1 year G E Clark 24 January 2003 1 year M G Foster 2 29 March 2000 1 year G Letourneau 15 November 1999 2 years Notes 1.
David Munros contract has a change of control clause based initially on two years, reducing each month to a one-year notice period at the end of the first 12 months.
Amended by an agreement dated 6 March 2003.
All of the Directors have rolling contracts.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 41 Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration The remuneration of each Director, excluding long-term incentives and pensions, during the financial year ending 31 December 2003 is laid out in the table below.
In 2003 Stuart Walker Group Chief Executive was the highest paid Director with remuneration as shown above.
He retired from the Board of the Company on 28 January 2004, and has an agreement with the Company under which he has agreed to provide consultancy services to the Board from the date of his retirement until 29 April 2004, for which he will receive fees amounting to 41,250 per month.
Mike Foster is a non-executive director of Charter plc, for which he received fees of 38,500 during 2003.
These fees are not included in the table above.
Sir John Parker was appointed Chairman of the Group in May 2002.
Helmut Mamsch is a member of the Supervisory Board of Readymix AG, a subsidiary of the Company, for which he received fees of20,000 in 2003.
These fees are included in the table above.
David Munro was appointed Group Chief Executive of RMC on 19 January 2004.
Details of his main terms and conditions of appointment are as follows.
Annual bonus opportunity of up to a maximum of 80% of base salary.
In respect of the first full year of appointment i. e. 2004 a minimum bonus of 35% of base salary will be paid, subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied with his overall general performance.
Pension subject to the outcome of the Governments current review of the taxation of executive pension benefits, David Munro has been offered either: participation in the RMC Executives Pension Fund up to the level of the pension earnings cap and a monthly payment of 40% of the salary above the cap or a monthly payment of 40% of base salary.
Share Incentives in the first three years following appointment, David Munro will be offered the following share incentives: a Year 1 executive share options equivalent to three times base salary and a Long Term Incentive Plan award equivalent to one times base salary and b Years 2 and 3 executive share options equivalent to two times base salary and a Long Term Incentive Plan award equivalent to one times base salary.
Thereafter, share incentives will be awarded on the standard basis, namely, executive share options equivalent to one times base salary and a Long Term Incentive Plan award of one times base salary.
In respect of compensation for the termination of his employment and loss of office, the Company paid Robert Lambourne, who resigned as Group Finance Director of the Company on 9 January 2003, 12 monthly instalments of 46,258 starting in February 2003 and ceasing in January 2004 at the end of the 12-month contractual period.
Peter Young, who retired as Group Chief Executive of the Company on 30 June 2000, has an agreement with the Company which was renewed during 2003 under which he has agreed to act as Chairman of certain of the Groups pension trustee boards until 30 June 2005.
During the year he received fees amounting to 30,000 2002: 38,333 and taxable benefits of 1,266 2002: 2,828.
Professor Dr Karlheinz Rsener, who retired from the Board on 3 May 2002, is a member of the Supervisory Board of Readymix AG, a subsidiary of the Company, for which he received fees of 20,000 during 2003.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors of the Company, including the interests of their families, in the share capital of the Company at the undermentioned dates, all of which are held beneficially, are shown below.
No Directors were interested in any Ordinary shares or Loan Capital of any other Group undertakings.
Details of interests at one month prior to the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The above table includes interests in shares purchased by Mike Foster and Graham Clark under the RMC Share Ownership Plan.
Options held under the RMC Executive Share Option Schemes.
Options held under the Savings Related Share Option Schemes.
Options were granted at nil cost to the Directors.
The performance criteria for the options granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes are set out on page 39 of this report.
At 31 December 2003, the market price of the Companys Ordinary shares, over which employee options are issued, was 697.5p: during 2003, the price ranged between 330.5p and 697.5p.
All LTIP awards are with effect from 1 January in the year in which they are awarded.
Number of shares transferred to participants after deduction of tax and National Insurance.
The market value of RMC shares on vesting date was 693.68p.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 43 Remuneration report continued Directors pensions The Directors current pension entitlements under the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group, based on service to 31 December 2003 or the date of leaving the Company, if earlier, are set out below.
Increase in accrued Increase in Years of pension Accrued Transfer Transfer transfer value pensionable during pension at value at value at during Age at service at the year 31 Dec 2003 1 Jan 2003 31 Dec 2003 the year Notes 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2003 000 p. a.
The transfer values shown in the table represent a liability of the Company or relevant Pension Fund to provide a certain level of benefit on death or retirement.
It is not a lump sum that may be paid or is due to the individual.
The values have been calculated by the actuary to the UK Fund.
They reflect the age of the Director and market conditions at the beginning and end of the year.
The actuary calculates the values in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, published by the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries dated 4 August 2003.
Stuart Walker will receive pension benefits in the UK Fund accrued during his UK service in addition to pension benefits payable from Readymix AG for his service in Germany.
Stuart Walker received an undertaking that the total pension from both his UK and German service would be not less than the pension he would have received had he remained in UK service throughout.
No additional benefits are required to meet this undertaking.
Stuart Walkers German pension benefits are payable under the terms of a pension contract with Readymix AG under which the pension payable from Germany is subject to an annual increase in line with the increase in the cost of living in Germany.
In addition to his pension from Readymix AG he is also entitled to a lump sum of 18,293 value at 31 December 2003 and payable at age 65.
The German pension is provided by a book reserve and the lump sum is separately funded.
The figures shown in the above table take account of pension benefits from Readymix AG.
Adrian Auer was appointed on 14 January 2003.
His pension and death benefits are limited by the earnings cap.
Accordingly the Company provides him with a funded money-purchase retirement benefits scheme in respect of his salary in excess of the earnings cap.
The gross contribution paid by the Company for the period under review was 85,100, plus 5,385 for life assurance.
Graham Clark is entitled to benefits in the UK Fund accrued during his UK service in addition to pension benefits in the Readymix Asland Plan fide Pensiones Empleo, a qualified defined contribution plan, accrued during his service in Spain.
His service agreement contains an undertaking that additional benefits will be provided by the Company to make up any shortfall between his actual accrued pension under the UK Fund and the pension he would have accrued if he had remained in UK service throughout and was not subject to the earnings cap.
A provision has been made in respect of this undertaking of 1.3 million 2002: 0.8 million and is included in the total UK provision disclosed.
The figures shown in the above table take account of pension benefits from the Readymix Asland Plan.
The Company paid 1,408 for life cover for the period under review 2002: 1,441.
Mike Fosters pension and death benefits are limited by the earnings cap.
The gross contribution paid by the Company for the period under review was 80,580, plus 3,101 for life assurance 2002: 78,300 and 3,198 respectively.
Robert Lambourne resigned on 9 January 2003.
The figures in the table above show the respective values at the effective date of leaving.
While a Director of the Company, his pension and death benefits were limited by the earnings cap.
Accordingly the Company provided him with a funded money-purchase retirement benefits scheme in respect of his salary in excess of the earnings cap.
The gross contribution paid by the Company for the period to 9 January 2003 was 13,880 2002: 102,900 plus 4,500 for life cover.
Grard Letourneau is entitled to a pension of 65% of the average of his last 36 months salary at age 60.
His pension will be provided by French Social Security arrangements and national mandatory pension schemes with the balance being met by a supplementary funded defined benefit pension scheme for executives of RMC Euro SAS.
He makes contributions to the Social Security and mandatory pension arrangements but not to the supplementary scheme.
He will be entitled to a pension on early retirement on the condition that, at that time, he is also eligible to draw a social security pension.
The supplementary element of his pension will be subject to an annual increase equal to the cost of living.
On his death Grard Letourneaus widow would receive a total pension equal to 60% of his entitlements.
Grard Letourneau also contributes to a defined contribution pension scheme and on his behalf RMC Euro SAS paid 81 to this for the period under review 2002: 74.
No Director or former Director has received augmentation to benefits which were not paid to all other pensioners or which could not be paid from the UK Fund.
The increase in, and total accrued pension figures quoted above for the non-UK resident Director have been translated using the appropriate exchange rates.
Under Part 3 of Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985 the information contained on pages 42 to 44 is subject to audit.
The other parts of this report are not subject to audit.
On behalf of the Board Sir Keith Stuart Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 March 2004 44 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Financial information Significant disposals during the year have reduced gearing and interest charges providing a solid financial platform for growth.
Contents 46 Independent Auditors report 54 Notes to the accounts 47 Group profit and loss account 82 Group financial review 48 Group balance sheet 83 Principal subsidiary undertakings, joint 49 Group cash flow statement ventures and associated undertakings 50 Statement of total recognised 85 Supplementary financial information gains and losses Movements in euros in shareholders equity funds 87 Shareholder information 51 Parent company balance sheet 52 Accounting policies RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 45
