SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 47 Remuneration Report Introduction committee that executive directors should have 12-month The following report from, and the recommendations of, contracts.
Current practice fully complies with this policy.
the remuneration committee have been approved without The overall policy of the remuneration committee has amendment by the board for submission to shareholders.
been to ensure that executive directors and senior managers are rewarded for their contribution to the Composition and terms of reference groups operating and financial performance at levels During the financial year ended 31 March 2003 the which take account of industry, market and country members of the remuneration committee were Lord benchmarks.
The basic objective of the policy is that Renwick of Clifton in the chair, Mr Kahn, Lord Fellowes members of the executive committee should receive from September 2002, Mr Manser and Mr Morland.
remuneration which is appropriate to their scale of Following completion of the acquisition of Miller, Mr Bible responsibility and performance and which will attract, joined meetings as an observer.
motivate and retain individuals of the necessary calibre.
The remuneration committee deals with the In the application of its policy, the remuneration remuneration of the executive directors and other committee also has had regard to the necessity of being members of the executive committee, as well as competitive in the different parts of the world in which the approving all grants and awards under the companys company operates.
Consideration is also given to the The remuneration committee has implemented its companys group-wide compensation and incentive policy by providing for each executive director a policies to ensure alignment.
remuneration package comprised of annual base salary, an annual cash bonus plan, long-term incentives through Advisors participation in share option and performance share plans, In the course of its deliberations, the remuneration pension contributions, other security and health benets committee has considered the views of the chief and benets in kind.
The base salaries, pensions and executive, Mr Mackay, on the remuneration and other benets provided are intended to establish a level of performance of his colleagues on the executive xed pay which is competitive with the median provision committee.
The group secretary, Mr Tonkinson, and of the chosen comparators.
The variable pay elements the group human resources director, Mr Nel, have also provided by short and long-term incentives are intended provided information relating to such matters as expatriate to provide superior total pay opportunities if the pay for international deployments and equity usage companys performance merits that.
The short-term and long-term incentives provided to The remuneration committee has continued to employ the executives have been based on multiples of base pay Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer, which and have been provided under plans, details of which are provides advice to the company on pensions and risk set out in the following pages.
In order to promote an matters, to provide independent market information and identity of interest with shareholders, share incentives are remuneration advice on an ongoing basis.
Other advisors, considered to be critical elements of executive including Lovells, the companys legal advisors, and remuneration policy.
Channel Consulting in South Africa have also provided With the acquisition of Miller Brewing Company in July information and advice as required for the remuneration the size and geographic reach of SABMiller plc changed committee to full its responsibilities.
dramatically from that of the former SAB plc.
In the report for 2002 and in the Circular for Shareholders on the Miller Remuneration policies transaction, the remuneration committee stated its The remuneration committee has operated a framework intention to continue to have regard to the pay levels of policies, within which it has set the remuneration of UK companies of comparable size but also to take package for each executive director, which applies the account of pay levels and practices in the companys principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code and the principal international competitors operating in the Code of Best Practice.
It is the policy of the remuneration markets in which it is engaged.
The remuneration 48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration Report continued reviewed and revised the salaries of Mr Mackay and committee will keep the companys remuneration policy Mr Wyman, with effect from 9 July 2002 when the as detailed herein for the new financial year and will in Miller transaction was approved, as the remaining two subsequent years ensure that the companys reward executive directors of the group, to align them with those programmes remain competitive and provide appropriate of their comparators in FTSE 100 companies of similar incentive for performance.
The remuneration committee has also been examining Details of their revised salaries applying from 1 April 2002 ways to target salaries at the median but to provide and from 9 July 2002, and the percentage changes from the opportunity through short and long-term incentives 31 March 2002 levels are shown in the table below: for executives to receive upper quartile pay for superior performance.
As a result the remuneration committee has Total % been reviewing both the structure and levels of short-term change Executive directors Effective 2003 2002 from incentive opportunity to keep them in line with market at 31 March 2003 date 2002 practice.
Full disclosure will be provided to shareholders E A G Mackay From 1 4 02 575,000 508,800 of any changes to the annual bonus plan.
From 9 7 02 625,000 22.83 Executive directors salaries M I Wyman From 1 4 02 355,000 315,000 The remuneration committee reviewed and revised the From 9 7 02 390,000 23.80 salaries of executive directors at its meeting in May 2002.
Details of salaries paid to the former executive directors for the period Following its established practice, the salaries of the from 1 April 2002 to 31 July 2002 are given in the table of directors emoluments on page 52.
Shortand long-term incentive remuneration, executive directors were compared in whole or in part described in the following paragraphs is determined annually as a factor or multiple of basic salary and is awarded, or vests, as the case may be, with median pay levels of a group of 30 UK listed in a strict relationship to pre-set performance targets.
companies of comparable size to SABMiller at that time in terms of market value.
Annual incentive plans For those executives whose primary responsibilities In addition to base salary, each of the executive directors were for operations of business units outside the UK, part and members of the executive committee was entitled of base pay was also related to appropriate benchmarks to participate in an annual bonus plan to reward the in their theatres of operation.
Information from Channel achievement of group financial, divisional financial where Consulting in South Africa on market pay levels for chief applicable, strategic and personal performance objectives executives of companies comparable to those of agreed by the remuneration committee.
Under this plan SABMillers regional operations showed the need for the chief executive might earn a bonus of up to 80% of substantial adjustments to maintain appropriately base salary and the chief financial officer and other competitive pay levels for the two executives based there.
executive committee members up to 65%.
In the cases of Mr Lloyd, Mr Mackay and Mr Wyman, The common group financial performance targets 100% of salary was determined by reference to the UK related to earnings per share growth and EBITA margin.
In the case of Mr Adami, salary was determined The divisional financial targets vary according to divisional on the assessment that 40% of his time was spent on value drivers derived from group needs and include EVA, SABMiller plc duties and therefore related to the UK EBITA and EBITA margin.
market, while 60% was on duties for The South African For the chief executive, the chief financial officer and Breweries Ltd and related to the South African market.
Mr Lloyd the proportions of maximum bonus derived from In the cases of Mr Parker and Mr Simms, the applicable the different sets of measures were 60% group nancials, percentages were 30% on SABMiller plc duties and 70% 20% strategic objectives and 20% personal objectives.
on duties in the Africa and Asia and European divisions For the other executive directors the proportions of with headquarters in South Africa and Hungary, respectively.
maximum bonus derived from the different sets of Following the enlargement, increased market measures were 30% group nancials, 40% divisional capitalisation and greater complexity of the group, at its nancials and 30% strategic and personal objectives.
September 2002 meeting the remuneration committee SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 49 At its meeting on 21 May 2003, the remuneration per share eps growth targets, calculated on the basis committee received assessments of the performance of the denition of Headline Earnings in the Institute of of the executives participating in the bonus plans Investment Management and Researchs Statement of against their agreed targets.
In the light of the financial Investment Practice No.
1, chosen because of their ready performance of the company and the achievement of a visibility both to executives and to shareholders: significant increase in the groups earnings per share, the remuneration committee agreed the payments of bonuses For options granted prior to 2002, growth in eps of as shown below to the executive directors: 3% per annum compound in excess of the change in retail price index RPI over any three year period 2003 bonus % of Salary 2002 bonus within the ten year option life is required.
E A G Mackay 425,000 68 275,000 For options granted in 2002, an increasing proportion M I Wyman 215,000 55 160,000 of the option will vest if growth in eps, measured from a xed base, is between 3% and 5% per annum Long Term Incentive Plans compound in excess of the change in RPI tested at the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of Share Option Schemes grant, after which any unvested portion of the option Since its listing on the London Stock Exchange, the will lapse.
company has operated the SABMiller plc Approved Share Option Scheme approved by the UK Inland Revenue, the Performance Share Award Scheme SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No 2 Scheme and The company also has in place the SABMiller plc the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Performance Share Award Scheme, which is operated in Scheme South Africa.
conjunction with the companys Employee benefit Trust On the acquisition of Miller Brewing Company, EBT.
The trustee of the EBT grants awards in consultation shareholders approved the establishment of share with the company.
Awards are subject to performance incentive arrangements for employees of the company conditions and will normally vest after three years with a principally in the Americas.
These arrangements have provision that if vested awards are retained for a further taken form in the SABMiller International Employee Share two years they will be increased by an allocation of 50% Scheme and the SABMiller International Employee Stock of the number of shares in the original award that vested.
Normally awards under this plan are made annually to All grants of options or rights over shares under these a value of 100% of base salary for the chief executive, plans have to be at the market value of the companys 75% of base salary for other executive directors and up to shares at the time of grant.
50% of base salary for other senior executives.
The table Executive directors have only been permitted to on page 55 gives details of the awards made in 2002 participate in the Approved Share Option Scheme in and awards still outstanding from previous years.
which participation is limited at any time to 30,000 of For normal awards under this plan, vesting will only outstanding options and the Executive Share Option occur if over the three years after grant the companys No 2 Scheme.
In the latter scheme grants are made total shareholder return TSR exceeds the median TSR on an annual basis to a maximum of 200% of the chief of a comparator group of companies identied at the time executives base salary and 150% of the chief financial of award.
For the June 2000 awards the comparator ofcers base salary other executive committee members group comprised both brewing and other beverage may be granted up to either 125% or 150%, depending companies to reect the companys presence in nonon their roles and responsibilities, following changes alcoholic beverages.
For the June 2001 and May 2002 agreed in 2001. awards the comparator group was rened to focus only Options granted under the Approved and the No 2 on international brewers, reecting the companys Schemes may normally only be exercised between strategic priority.
three and ten years after grant.
The right to exercise On exceeding the median performance of the relevant is dependent on the achievement of adjusted earnings comparator group, 25% of the award will vest and on 50 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration Report continued reaching the upper quartile, 100% of the award will vest.
The base price for the TSR calculation will be 477p, Between these levels of achievement awards vest pro the average of the daily closing share price in the three rata.
TSR is calculated using the equation: months to 3 April 2002 the last dealing day prior to X 1 Z Y conrmation that SAB plc was in talks to acquire Miller TSR X Brewing Company.
The comparator group is the same where X is the base price the average of the daily closing 15 companies above and 15 companies below SAB plc share prices over the three months preceding the start of in the FTSE 100 on 28 March 2002 used as the reference the measurement period : Y is the final price the average group for the 2002 executive pay reviews.
of the daily closing share prices over the three months The companies comprising the TSR comparator immediately preceding the end of the measurement groups for all the Performance Share Awards which had period : and Z is the sum of the fractions of an ordinary not yet vested or lapsed at 31 March 2003 are listed below: share purchaseable by reinvestment of the dividends paid June 2001 and during the measurement period on the relevant payment June 2000 awards May 2002 awards dates.
Relative TSR was chosen as the performance Allied Domecq Ambev measure because it allows for performance to be Anheuser-Busch Anheuser-Busch measured relative to other companies and reects the Bass Asahi Breweries benefit to shareholders of management effort.
Cadbury Schweppes Asia Pacic Breweries The board disclosed in the shareholder circular on Carlsberg A Bavaria the acquisition of Miller Brewing Company its intention Coca-Cola Beverages Carlsberg A of making additional performance share awards to the Diageo Coors Adolph B chief executive and chief financial officer of 240,000 and Fosters Brewing Group Femsa UBD 160,000 shares, respectively.
The board considered it Greene King Fosters Brewing Group important to strengthen the remaining executive directors Grolsch Kon Greene King alignment with shareholder interests and to retain them Heineken Grolsch Kon during the demanding period of integration that lies Kirin Brewery Hartwall A ahead, to secure value creation for shareholders of Pernod Ricard Heineken SABMiller plc.
San Miguel Interbrew The board had undertaken extensive consultations Scottish & Newcastle Kirin Brewery with institutional shareholders and shareholder Whitbread Holdings Lion Nathan representative bodies before deciding that exceptional Wolverhampton & Dudley Molson A performance share awards were the best way to Quinsa accomplish this.
Those special awards were made within San Miguel B the rules of the SABMiller plc Performance Share Award Sapporo Breweries Scheme with effect from 9 July 2002, the date of the Scottish & Newcastle completion of the transaction, and were as set out Wolverhampton & Dudley in the table on page 55.
Hartwall was acquired by Scottish & Newcastle in December 2002 and Each award may vest after three years, dependent has been removed from the group for future measurement.
on the performance achieved and subject to continued employment of the executive.
At the third anniversary July 2002 awards of the effective date of the awards the remuneration 3i Group, Alliance & Leicester, Allied Domecq, Amersham, committee will consider the performance of the company Associated British Foods, BOC Group, Cable & Wireless, over the period, looking at: Dixons, Friends Provident, Gallaher Group, Granada, Hanson, Hilton Group, ICI, Invensys, Kingsher, Land Securities, Next, The TSR of the company compared to the TSR of Old Mutual, P&O Princess Cruising, Powergen, Rentokil Initial, 30 companies which together comprise a FTSE Royal & Sun Alliance, Scottish & Newcastle, Scottish & comparator group: and Southern Energy, Smith & Nephew, Smiths Group, The financial performance of the company.
United Utilities, Wm Morrison Supermarkets, Wolseley.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 51 Pensions The subsidiary service contracts, where in place, During the year the company made contributions for the are subservient to the SABMiller plc contracts.
executive directors to the SABMiller Executive Pension Under the service contracts with the company, a Scheme, an Approved Occupational Pension Scheme payment in lieu of notice may be made on termination established as a self-administered money purchase of employment.
Such payment shall be calculated by scheme.
The rate of contribution paid in respect of each reference to the executives base salary plus company executive directors sterling based salaries was 15.6%, pension contributions for the relevant period, less any to the extent allowed by the earnings cap.
Contributions deduction considered by the company to be appropriate in relation to salary above the earnings cap were given and reasonable to take account of accelerated receipt as additional taxable pay.
Having elected not to join the and the executives duty to mitigate his loss.
scheme, Mr Simms was given his contributions entirely During the year, as a consequence of the acquisition as additional taxable pay.
of Miller Brewing Company, Mr Adami, Mr Lloyd, The Committee intends to review the age-related Mr Parker and Mr Simms agreed to resign as directors adequacy of contribution levels in the year ahead.
of the company and their service contracts were varied Contributions for the South African based executives were accordingly.
also made in regard to their Rand base salaries to dened The execution dates of the contracts of Mr Mackay contribution group retirement schemes of their employer and Mr Wyman were, respectively, 27 February 1999 and companies in South Africa, in accordance with the rules 26 February 1999. of those schemes on a continuation basis at the rate of 19.8% of base salaries.
Other benets The value of contributions made to each executive The executive directors are provided with medical director in regard to qualifying service during the financial insurance, permanent health insurance, company car year is included in the Summary of Emoluments Paid or car allowance at their choice and death in service table on page 52. benefit.
Mr Lloyd has continued to receive housing It is the groups policy to provide occupational allowance at the rate of 8,333 per month to assist with retirement funding schemes on a money purchase basis the cost of accommodation following his relocation to the wherever possible so as to minimise the companys UK, subject to a 36-month limit.
Where feasible, the company applies this policy to its new acquisitions.
Non-executive directors fees The fees of the non-executive directors were determined Service contracts by the board in the absence of the non-executive directors.
Service contracts of all the executives are renewable Fees for the chairman and the other non-executive annually on a rolling basis.
Notice to be given by the directors were reviewed and revised with effect from executives to the company or its subsidiaries under 1 July 2002, for the first time since 1999.
As from 1 July their contracts is 12 months.
Notice to be given by 2002 the annual rate of fees for the chairman has been the company to the executives is 12 months.
Mr Lloyd, set at 120,000 in respect of his duties as chairman.
Mr Mackay and Mr Wyman had service contracts with The basic annual rate of fees for each other nonthe company.
executive director was set at 37,500 and, in addition, Mr Simms had separate service contracts with the the extra fees for committee membership and chairs company, for duties in relation to the company, and with were also revised.
South African Breweries International Management Ltd For membership of the audit, remuneration or a Guernsey-based subsidiary of the company for his role corporate accountability and risk assurance CARAC in the management of the European operations.
committees over a full year a non-executive director will Mr Adami and Mr Parker had separate service contracts receive a fee of 5,000: as chair of the audit, remuneration with the company, for duties in relation to the company, and or CARAC committees a non-executive director will with The South African Breweries Ltd a wholly owned receive a fee of 6,000 over a full year.
Membership of the subsidiary of the company for their other duties.
nomination committee attracts no additional fees but the 52 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration Report continued Cumulative TSR Performance chair of that committee receives an additional 8,000.
140 As senior non-executive director, Lord Fellowes receives SABMiller FTSE 100 120 an additional fee for this role of 5,000 pa. 100 80 Performance review 60 40 The adjacent graph compares the companys TSR over 20 the period from 8 March 1999 to 31 March 2003 with the 0 FTSE 100 Total Return Index over the same period.
8 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Directors emoluments The directors emoluments in the year ended 31 March 2003 in total have been audited and were as follows: Emoluments paid for the period 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2003 Retirement Total Salary fees 2003 2002 contriexcl.
Former non-executive directors, termination effective 31 July 2002 for Mr Slack and Mr Strauss and 31 March 2002 for Mr Collum.
The emoluments of Mr Simms paid in US dollars have been converted into sterling at the exchange rate prevailing on 31 March 2003, as have the emoluments paid to Mr Adami and Mr Parker in rand.
Mr Goedhals, who stepped down from the board on 29 February 2000, continues to be employed as a part-time consultant following his retirement for which he receives fees.
Mr Cox stepped down from the board on 28 February 2001 and transferred his employment to SABMiller Europe where he is chief financial officer based in Budapest.
Mr Adami, Mr Lloyd, Mr Parker and Mr Simms left the board on 31 July 2002 but continued in their executive employment.
Mr Bible, Mr Camilleri and Ms fide Lisi have waived their fees.
No payment is made to any party in respect of their directorships.
Mr Ning has waived his fees in favour of China Resources Enterprise Ltd, a Hong Kong company.
Value of 100 invested on 8 March 1999 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 53 Share incentive plans The interests of the executive directors in shares of the company provided in the form of options and awards since listing on 8 March 1999 are shown in the tables below and have been audited.
During the year to 31 March 2003 the highest and lowest market prices for the companys shares were 592p and 349.5p respectively and the market price on 31 March 2003 was 396p.
The options granted on 2 June 2000 were tested against the performance conditions as at 31 March 2003 and did not meet those tests.
Retesting will take place over the three-year period ending 31March 2004.
The expected values shown are the aggregates of the Black-Scholes values of each option grant.
The Black-Scholes values have been calculated by Mercer using a model that uses daily share price data and takes account of the option grant date, exercise price and time to maturity, with assumptions as to dividend yield and the risk-free rate of return.
In September 2002 the remuneration committee made these awards to Mr Adami and Mr Parker, as their retention and future motivation was considered to be crucial to the future success of the company.
Vesting of these awards will be subject to continued employment and assessment by the chief executive to the remuneration committee of their contribution to the success of SABMiller over a three-year period.
The performance shares awarded in March 1999 were tested against the performance condition in March 2002 and lapsed in full.
56 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration Report continued SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa Prior to adoption of new share schemes, in March 1999 each of the executive directors participated in the old SAB Executive Share Purchase Scheme.
The characteristics for this scheme are such that gains on exercise of options were recognised in prior years in respect of all the share rights reected in the table.
From 3 June 2000, the old SAB Executive Share Purchase Scheme was closed for purposes of new awards, and replaced by the Mirror Scheme for the purposes of new awards to employees of South African employers in the group and certain categories of other employees of South African origin elsewhere in the group other than SABMiller plc directors, principally in Africa.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 57 Directors beneficial interests in shares of the company The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 March 2003 were: beneficial beneficial holding NonPurchased holding at 31 March beneficial sold since at 31 March Directors 2002 holding year end 2003 J M Kahn 1,470,578 1,470,578 E A G Mackay 6 6 M I Wyman 120,000 120,000 G C Bible L C Camilleri N fide Lisi Lord Fellowes 1,000 1,000 Ning Gaoning M J Levett 40,000 40,000 P J Manser M Q Morland 14,800 14,800 M C Ramaphosa 4,000 Lord Renwick of Clifton 4,000 5,000 9,000 This holding remained unchanged during the year.
