A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 34 33 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code and Results related bonus scheme Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, which applies for the first time to Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus of up to 75% of base this financial year.
The Report has been approved by both the Remuneration salary.
The level of bonus received will depend upon the extent to which the Committee and the Board and shareholders will be invited to approve the performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee have been met.
report at the Companys AGM.
Those targets relate to economic profit.
For these purposes, economic profit Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 requires designated for executive directors with Group responsibilities is the operating profit of the parts of the Remuneration Report to be audited, whilst other parts are not.
Group and joint ventures excluding amortisation of goodwill and exceptional Where disclosures are subject to audit, they have been marked as such.
items net of tax, less a charge for the use of capital.
For executive directors who are Divisional Chairmen, economic profit relates to the relevant divisional Remuneration Committee and advisers economic profit.
At Group level, the overall bonus paid for the year was 355% The Chairman of the Groups Remuneration Committee is Ian McAllister and of maximum target being 266% of salary.
The Committee believes that its other members are Dr Iain Anderson, Dr Neville Bain and Neville Isdell.
economic profit is an appropriate measure of value created for shareholders.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms Executive directors may invest up to half of any bonus payable in the of reference, on an overall remuneration package for executive directors and Companys shares and, provided a director remains with the Group for a other senior executives.
further three years, additional matched shares may be granted to him.
The Sir Brian Stewart, as Group Chairman and Henry Fairweather, Group number of matched shares will depend on the Groups performance over the Human Resources Director provided advice to the Committee in relation to three year period measured against two separate criteria total shareholder the remuneration of other senior executives and Ray Martin, Head of Pensions return TSR and earnings per share EPS growth as follows.
and Executive Remuneration, has also assisted the Committee.
The Company Companys TSR ranking Number of matched shares awarded as against comparator group as % of shares purchased by director Secretary, Peter Kennerley, is secretary to the Committee.
None of the executive directors is involved in any discussions or decisions about Between 76-100 75% his own remuneration.
Between 51-75 50% During the year, the Committee appointed Towers Perrin to advise on Between 26-50 25% market practice and in particular to advise on remuneration policy.
Towers Between 0-25 0% Perrin also provided advice to the Company on general reward and retirement Growth in EPS in excess of RPI Number of matched shares awarded issues.
The Committee also appointed William Mercer Group to advise on over three year period as % of shares purchased by director post retirement benefits.
15% 75% The Committee also consults as necessary with the Companys principal 9% 50% shareholders on remuneration and benefit matters.
3% 25% 3% 0% Remuneration policy The policy of the Company in determining the remuneration package for TSR is calculated as the growth in value of a share over the three year executive directors is to ensure that the total package: period taking into account reinvested dividends which is calculated by the is competitive with companies in the same sector which are of similar size Company using publicly available information and each companys TSR is and complexity and that accordingly it will attract, retain and motivate then ranked.
The comparator companies for measuring relative TSR for the executive directors with the skills required to maximise returns for three financial years ended 27 April 2003 were chosen to reflect the type shareholders: of business, size and geographic spread of the Company and comprised facilitates the movement of executives between different divisions and the following: countries within the Group: and 1.
Heineken supports the achievement of the Groups operational and strategic 2.
Pizza Express The Committee believes that it is important that a significant part of the 4.
Six Continents remuneration package should be clearly linked to company performance to 5.
SABMiller ensure rewards are linked to the creation of shareholder value.
J D Wetherspoon variable pay provided through both short and long term incentives is intended 7.
Whitbread to form a significant proportion of the executive directors remuneration.
Wolverhampton & Dudley In addition, the Committee encourages executive directors to build an 9.
Greene King appropriate shareholding in the business through the operation of the Groups share schemes, as described below.
The comparator group is reviewed annually to ensure it continues to These principles were followed during the year and the Committee represent an appropriate range of comparative companies.
intends to continue this policy for the following and subsequent financial Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to years, subject to review in the light of any changes in legislation, regulations ordinary shareholders excluding amortisation of goodwill and exceptional or market practice.
items by the weighted average number of ordinary shares on a diluted basis.
The Committee has discretion to adjust EPS in order to mitigate the effect Base salary of structural changes in the Group.
Individual base salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration The Committee takes the view that the two performance criteria provide Committee and take into account individual performance and any the most appropriate means of balancing the measurement of performance, responsibility changes, as well as external independent advice on marketaligned with shareholder interests, in absolute and comparative terms.
competitive salary levels, taking into account each directors responsibilities within the Group, using the FTSE 100 as the chosen comparator group.
In setting executive directors salaries, the Committee also has regard to the performance of the Company and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 35 34 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report Directors interests in results related bonus scheme Audited information The interests of the directors in the results related bonus scheme are as follows: Scheme Scheme Scheme End of Interest interest interest interest Market final vested held at awarded held at price at qualifying during Name 28.04.02 during year 27.04.03 award period year J M Dunsmore 7,187 2,005 9,192 541 17-Aug-05 J H W Fairweather 5,367 4,626 9,993 541 17-Aug-05 R L Ivell I P McHoul 8,111 4,674 12,785 541 17-Aug-05 J R Nicolson 4,233 4,233 541 17-Aug-05 Sir Brian Stewart 12,573 12,573 The scheme interests awarded during the year have performance conditions attached, relating to the Groups achievement over the qualifying period, in respect of total shareholder return, as against a comparator group, and growth in earnings per share.
Further details are given in the description of the results related bonus scheme on page 33.
The maximum number of matching shares which may be awarded under the scheme are 15 times the values given in the table above.
Service contracts It is the Companys policy to offer all executive directors rolling service contracts.
Notice periods contained in the service contracts of all continuing and future executive directors are set at one year.
In the case of the recruitment of an executive director from outside the Group, the Board may, in exceptional circumstances, offer an initial contract period of two years after which the notice period would revert to the standard one years notice.
Since the new Group Chief Executive, Tony Froggatt, was required to relocate from Australia to take up his appointment, the Committee considered it appropriate that his service contract should have an initial 24 months notice period reducing to 12 months with effect from 12 May 2004.
Where an appointment to the Board is made from within the Group and the director concerned has an existing service contract with a notice period of greater than one year, the notice period will be reduced to one year, but expiring not earlier than the end of the notice period which applied to the director at the time of his appointment.
In the event of the termination of any service contract or appointment, it is the Boards policy to ensure that legally appropriate mitigation factors are fully applied to any compensation that may be payable.
There are no provisions for pre-determined compensation in service contracts.
Each of the executive directors who served during the year has, or had, a service contract providing for 12 months notice to be given by the Company or by the director, dated as shown: G G Dickson 4 May 1992 retired 31 December 2002, J M Dunsmore 30 September 2002, J H W Fairweather 25 September 1986, R L Ivell 27 September 2001, G D Kendrick 25 July 2001 retired 27 September 2002, I P McHoul 13 July 2001, J R Nicolson 30 November 2000, Sir Brian Stewart 7 July 1988.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, renewable for a further term of three years.
In particular cases, the term may be further extended for up to three years.
Each of the non-executive directors who served during the year has a letter of appointment, which does not provide for any notice period, dated as shown: Dr J I W Anderson 29 April 1998, Dr N C Bain 26 June 1997, Sir Angus Grossart 29 May 1998, E J V Hartwall 17 April 2002, E N Isdell 22 October 2001, I G McAllister 12 July 1996, F R M Riboud 12 June 2000, H V L Therman 17 April 2002.
Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return with dividends reinvested for each of the last five financial years beginning on 4 May 1998 and ending on 27 April 2003 of a holding of the Companys shares against the corresponding total return in a hypothetical holding of shares by reference to which the FTSE 100 Index is calculated.
The FTSE 100 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company is a constituent member.
Other remuneration comprises cash allowances in place of some benefits and in the case of Mr Nicolson includes an allowance in respect of earnings above the pension cap as explained on page 37.
Other benefits comprise benefits received otherwise than in cash, being the provision of a company car and fuel, medical insurance, a beer, wine and spirits allowance and subscriptions to professional and trade bodies and the appropriation of shares under the share incentive plan.
Sir Angus Grossarts fees are paid to Noble Grossart Limited.
Share schemes Executive directors may participate in the Companys executive share option scheme, savings-related share option schemes and share incentive plan.
Executive directors participate in both the 1984 and the 1994 executive share option schemes.
The 1984 scheme expired in 1994 and no further options can be granted under it, but options may still be exercised under the 1984 scheme for a period of 10 years from the original date of grant.
Options under the 1994 scheme are granted at the market price at the date of grant.
Options will not normally be exercisable for a period of three years from the date of grant.
The rules of the 1994 scheme were amended during 2002 to increase the maximum annual grant of options to three times a directors gross annual salary with a revised performance condition for exercise.
Details of these performance conditions, including an explanation of why they were chosen and their methods of assessment are set out in the notes to the table of interests in options on page 36.
In deciding the level of options to be granted to an executive director, the Committee considers a number of factors, including individual or divisional performance and the emphasis to be placed on long term incentives as part of overall remuneration.
Options granted under the savings-related option scheme are not subject to a performance condition, but require a savings contract to be entered into for three or five years and for options to be exercised within six months of the termination of that savings contract.
Options under the savings-related option scheme are available generally to all eligible employees and can be granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market price at the time of grant.
There is a current maximum limit on savings of 250 per month.
The exercise price for options held at 28 April 2002 is the weighted average price.
A proportion of options under the 1984 scheme granted between 17 January 1992 and 28 July 1994 were granted at a discount of 15% to the then market price, but may only be exercised at this discounted price if growth in the Companys earnings per share is equal to or greater than the increase in the RPI plus 10% over any five consecutive financial years of the Company prior to exercise.
Options granted under the 1994 scheme before August 1999 may only be exercised if the Companys growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than the increase in the RPI plus 6% over any three consecutive financial years of the Company prior to exercise.
Options granted after August 1999 may only be exercised if the Companys growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than the increase in the RPI plus 9% over three consecutive financial years of the Company within the five financial years beginning with the year during which the grant is made.
Options granted after August 2002 are subject to the following performance condition: All of the options may be exercised if, over the three years following the grant, growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than the increase in the RPI plus 15%.
If growth in earnings per share is greater than RPI plus 9% then one third of the options may be exercised with a linear scale in between.
Subsequent re-tests will be made over four and five years if 100% of the options have not already vested.
EPS has been chosen because it encourages sustained profitable growth, can be clearly measured from reported results, and, in the Committees opinion, is the most appropriate measure of the Companys underlying performance.
It is calculated in the same way as for the results related bonus scheme described on page 33.
Options held under the savings-related share option scheme which are not subject to performance conditions are denoted.
There were no variations made during the year in the terms or conditions of a share option or in the performance criteria subject to which share options were granted.
The market price of the Companys shares on 27 April 2003 was 34225 per share and the range during the year to 27 April 2003 was 295 to 660.
References to earnings per share are excluding the amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items and are on a diluted basis.
A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 38 37 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report Share incentive plan Under the share incentive plan, in which all eligible employees participate, shares may be appropriated to executive directors up to a current maximum initial market value in a tax year of 3,000.
These shares are held by the Trustees of the scheme and can be transferred tax free to participants after a period of five years.
The Company has introduced a savings and matching element to the share incentive plan during the financial year, which applies to executive directors.
Employees are able to contribute up to 1,500 per annum to buy shares and will receive a free share from the Company for every two shares they buy.
Pensions and life assurance Executive directors appointed before 1 October 2002 participate in a Company funded pension scheme, which provides a pension of 1 30th of salary at retirement for each year of service up to a maximum of 20 years.
Life assurance is provided at four times salary to directors appointed prior to 6 April 2003 and at five times salary up to the earnings cap for directors appointed from 6 April 2003 onwards.
Four executive directors, John Dunsmore, Bob Ivell, Ian McHoul and John Nicolson are subject to the earnings cap.
These executive directors, other than John Nicolson, are provided identical benefits above the cap through an unfunded supplementary plan.
John Nicolson has elected to opt out of the unfunded plan from 1 May 2001 and the Company pays him an allowance to make his own arrangements in excess of the earnings cap.
This allowance is included in the table of Directors Remuneration on page 35.
Executive directors appointed on or after 1 October 2002 will be entitled to participate in the Company funded scheme providing a pension based on 1% of average salary over their career, adjusted for inflation, up to the earnings cap.
The accrued rate can be increased to 125% if the director pays a contribution of 2% of pensionable earnings and 15% if he pays a contribution of 4% of pensionable earnings.
In addition, an allowance of 30% of base salary to fund additional pension and other benefits will be provided or such higher percentage as the Committee decides is appropriate to reflect the age of the executive director.
The normal retirement age for executive directors and employees whose employment with the Company started before 6 April 2003 is 60.
For those starting after that date it is 65.
In the event of earlier retirement, other than on the grounds of ill-health, the pension is subject to a reduction by a factor recommended by the scheme actuary to reflect the increased cost of an immediate pension: no reduction is applied above age 58 for those whose employment with the Company started before 6 April 2003 provided retirement is with Company consent.
Upon the death of a director who started before 6 April 2003, a pension is payable to his spouse of one half of his own pension including, in the case of death in service, allowance for prospective service to age 60: for directors appointed from 6 April 2003 onwards no spouses pension is payable.
In respect of that part of a pension in the course of payment attributable to service after 5 April 1997, pension increases are guaranteed to be at the rate of price inflation up to a maximum of 5% per annum.
There is a practice of discretionary pension increases from the scheme at the same rate for pension in respect of earlier service.
Executive directors make no contribution towards the cost of a pension but may make additional voluntary contributions.
Pension entitlement is calculated by reference to base salary only and neither annual bonuses nor benefits in kind are pensionable.
Pension entitlements Audited information The following directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the Company during the year and pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as shown during the year.
Increase in Total Value of Total Value of Value of Gross increase accrued accrued net increase change in accrued accrued in accrued pension net pension at in accrual value during pension at pension at pension of inflation 27 April 2003 over period period 27 April 2003 28 April 2002 000 p. a.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version V8.1 of Guidance Note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption service terminated at the year-end.
It is based on the increase in accrued pension net of inflation.
The total change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as stock market movements.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
G G Dickson retired on 31 December 2002 and elected to take a lump sum of 650,000 in lieu of part of his entitlement.
The figures in the table include an allowance for this figure.
The pension was calculated in line with the entitlement under the plan rules.
If allowance for the lump sum is excluded, in accordance with Companies Act Regulations, the year end value reduces to 4,980,000 and the change in value becomes 730,000.
G D Kendrick retired on 27 September 2002 and elected to take a lump sum of 440,000 in lieu of part of his entitlement.
If allowance for the lump sum is excluded, in accordance with Companies Act Regulations, the year end value reduces to 3,430,000 and the change in value becomes 730,000.
The transfer values represent the actuarial value of a liability of the pension plan or the Company, and are not a sum paid or due to the individual.
The directors all participate in non-contributory pension arrangements, so the transfer values do not include the directors own contributions.
Non-executive directors fees The fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Board within the limits stipulated in the Articles of Association.
The fees comprise a basic fee together with a further fee for membership or chairmanship of a committee.
Non-executive directors may receive a further fee for membership of the board of a subsidiary or associate company.
Fees are reviewed annually by the Board, with a view to setting them in line with general market practice, as identified in available market surveys.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive plans and receive no pension or other benefits.
The non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decision about their own remuneration.
External appointments The Company encourages its executive directors to become non-executive directors of other leading companies as it believes that the exposure to other companies and the wider knowledge and experience gained benefits the Company.
Subject to there being no conflict of interest and to the time spent being reasonable, executive directors are permitted with Board agreement to take up such appointments.
The fees for appointments may, at the discretion of the Board, be retained by the director.
A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 39 38 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report Shares The beneficial interests of the directors in the 20p ordinary shares in the Company at 27 April 2003 and 28 April 2002 or later date of appointment are shown below.
2003 2002 Dr J I W Anderson 3,188 3,188 Dr N C Bain 6,000 6,000 J M Dunsmore 124,967 J H W Fairweather 198,232 181,614 Sir Angus Grossart E J V Hartwall 8,994,049 E N Isdell 45,000 R L Ivell 3,350 2,753 I G McAllister 378 I P McHoul 37,896 23,630 J R Nicolson 32,162 18,441 F R M Riboud Sir Brian Stewart 250,707 210,083 H V L Therman 3,055,859 Certain of the interests in the fully paid ordinary shares include shares held as participants in the profit sharing scheme.
These figures include shares purchased through the results related bonus scheme purchased and matching shares received under the share incentive plan.
Executive directors also have an interest as potential beneficiaries, along with other employees, in 40 million ordinary shares held by the Trustees of the Scottish & Newcastle employee share trusts at 27 April 2003.
Approved by the Board and signed on their behalf by: I G McAllister Chairman, Remuneration Committee Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial Statements The directors are required by law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profits for that year.
They are also responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate accounting records have been kept and that appropriate procedures have been followed for safeguarding Group assets and preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Appropriate accounting policies which follow generally accepted accounting practice have been applied consistently in the preparation of the financial statements and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
