| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 61 Remuneration Report of the Directors Introduction adviser following a competitive tendering a shareholding in the company in process.
Towers Perrin also provides proportion to their annual salaries.
These The following statement sets out how, for remuneration and other human resources proportions are three times base salary for the financial year ending 31 March 2003, consultancy services directly to some the Chief Executive and two times base the company has adopted the remuneration ScottishPower companies within parameters salary for other executive directors.
The principles set out in Part B of the Combined established by the Committee.
Company Committee considers this policy to be in line Code and has taken account of the Directors executives whom the Committee may consult with evolving best practice and in the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 include the Group Company Secretary, interests of shareholders.
which came into effect on 1 August 2002.
Andrew Mitchell who acts as Secretary to the Committee, the Group Director, Human In setting remuneration levels, the Consideration of remuneration Resources, Michael Pittman, the Director Committee commissions an independent matters by the directors Group Talent Management and Reward, evaluation of the roles of the Executive Sandy Begbie, and the Head of Group Team, and also of the next levels of The ScottishPower Board is responsible for Reward, Nigel Johnson.
The Terms of management within the company.
The determining the remuneration policy for the Reference empower the Committee to avail Committee takes independent advice from ScottishPower group.
The Remuneration itself of external legal and professional Towers Perrin on market-level remuneration, Committee, with delegated authority from advice at the expense of the company.
based on comparisons with utility and other the Board, determines the detail of companies of similar size and complexity remuneration arrangements for the During the year, the Board accepted all of with which the company competes for Executive Team, including the executive the recommendations from the Committee executive talent.
directors, and reviews proposals in respect without significant amendment.
The relationship The Committee recognises the importance between the Board and the Committee is Statement of remuneration policy of linking rewards to business and based on formal Terms of Reference, which personal performance and believes that are regularly reviewed to ensure that they Philosophy and policy the arrangements detailed below provide reect best practice.
ScottishPower seeks to ensure that an appropriate focus on performance and remuneration and incentive schemes are in balance between shortand long-term The Remuneration Committee consists line with best practice, provide a strong link incentives.
At target level, base salary is solely of independent non-executive to individual and company performance expected to deliver around 45% of total directors.
Its members are Sir Peter Gregson and promote a community of interest reward excluding benets and pension.
Chairman, Euan Baird, Mair Barnes, Nolan between employees and shareholders.
The annual bonus plan and long-term Karras and Ewen Macpherson.
These incentive arrangements are expected to members have no personal financial Rewards for executives and directors are provide 55% of total reward for the interest, other than as shareholders, in the designed to attract and retain individuals of achievement of stretching target level matters considered by the Committee.
high quality, who have the requisite skills business and personal performance Details of the payments made to all nonand are incentivised to achieve levels of objectives.
Higher proportions of executive directors are set out in Table 41 performance which exceed that of performance based reward are available page 65. competitor companies.
As such, for the delivery of exceptional personal remuneration packages must be marketand business performance resulting in The Chairman of the company, Charles competitive and capable of rewarding enhanced shareholder value.
Miller Smith, and the Chief Executive, Ian exceptional performance.
All senior Russell, are invited to attend meetings and management remuneration packages are The Committee constantly monitors may provide guidance on the impact of set according to a mid-market position, with market practice in order to remain remuneration policy and advise, as packages above the mid-market level competitive and to reect good corporate appropriate, on the performance of senior provided only where supported by governance practice.
At this time, no executives.
They are not present during any demonstrably superior personal substantial changes to the companys discussion of their own remuneration.
Remuneration packages will policies with regard to directors Terms of Reference contain conict of be developed to reect the prevailing market remuneration are envisaged over the next interest provisions to ensure that no practice in each business environment.
However, the Committee may develop directors are involved in any decision policy and, should it determine any relating to their own remuneration.
Annual bonus arrangements have been changes to be appropriate, will report such structured so that stretching targets are changes to shareholders through The Committee is able to draw on advice based on corporate, business unit and established channels of consultation and from independent remuneration consultants individual performance.
For example, the Committee and and internal expertise.
During the year, the the Board will consider carefully the Committee appointed Towers, Perrin, Forster The company operates a Personal recommendations of the Higgs Report and & Crosby, Inc.
Towers Perrin as Shareholding Policy, requiring executives may amend policy accordingly.
remuneration consultant and independent and senior managers to build-up and retain | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 62 Remuneration Report of the Directors continued Elements of the remuneration Plan LTIP, and an Executive Share Option Progress Energy Inc: Public Service package Plan 2001 ExSOP for executive directors Enterprise Group Inc: Reliant Energy Inc: and other senior managers.
RWE AG: Scottish & Southern Energy plc: Base salaries Southern Company Inc: Tenaga Nasional The Committee sets base salaries for the Under the LTIP, awards to acquire shares in Bhd: The Tokyo Electric Power Co Inc: TXU: Executive Team by reference to individual ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost are Union Fenosa: Williams Companies Inc: Xcel performance through a formal appraisal made to the participants up to a maximum Energy Inc. system applied to all management value equal to 75% of base salary.
The employees, and to external market data, award will vest only if the Committee is No shares vest unless the companys TSR reecting similar roles in comparable satisfied that there has been an underlying performance is at least equal to the median companies.
Account is also taken of salary improvement in the performance of the performance of the comparator group, at increases and employment conditions company and, to this end, certain gateway which point 40% of the initial award vests.
performance targets are measured and the 100% of the shares vest if the companys Committee reviews performance against performance is equal to or exceeds the top Annual performance-related bonus these measures when determining if awards quartile.
The number of shares that vest for Executive directors and senior management vest.
The measures relate to the key performance between these two points is participate in the companys performancefinancial performance indicators of the determined on a straight-line basis.
Any payments company and customer service standards, to UK executives under the schemes are including those published by Ofgem, For LTIP awards which had the potential to non-pensionable and are determined by the Energywatch and the US Public Utility vest during the year, performance was Committee following assessment against Commissions.
These measures provide a measured against that of the FTSE 100 predetermined targets.
mechanism to safeguard stakeholder interests index and an index of the Electricity and and provide an overview of the financial and Water sectors of the FTSE All Share Index.
The 2002 03 plan for executive directors operational success of the business.
As the performance criteria were not provided a maximum bonus opportunity of achieved, Award 4 of the LTIP May 1999 75% of salary.
For the Chief Executive, half is The number of shares which actually vest is May 2002 lapsed with no vesting of shares.
determined by the companys financial dependent upon the companys comparative performance, with the balance linked to the Total Shareholder Return TSR The Committee has approved the operation achievement of key strategic objectives, both performance, over a three-year performance of the LTIP for 2003 04 and no significant short-term and long-term.
TSR measures ScottishPowers changes have been implemented.
Director and the Executive Director UK, onecomparative performance against key third is determined by the companys competitors and only provides rewards if Options were granted at market value to financial performance, one-third is based on ScottishPower exceeds the median 285 directors and other executives across the performance of the relevant function performance of appropriate comparators.
the company during the year.
Options division and one-third on the achievement The Committee chose TSR as the granted to UK executives under the ExSOP of key strategic objectives, both short-term performance measure for the LTIP as it are subject to the performance criterion that and long-term.
Objectives are set annually believes that it provides a clear link to the the average annual percentage increase in by the Board and performance against creation of shareholder value.
the companys earnings per share EPS these is reviewed on a six-monthly basis.
be at least 3% adjusted for any increase in The Committee has approved the bonus LTIP awards were granted to 48 directors and the Retail Price Index.
The Committee plan for 2003 04 and no significant senior executives during the year Award 7. believes that EPS is an appropriate changes have been made.
TSR performance is measured against an measure for the purposes of testing the international comparator group of 39 major ExSOP because it is based on the Exceptionally, in 2002 03 an interim energy companies, as identied below.
underlying financial performance of the payment of up to 20% of salary was made company.
This criterion is assessed at the to executive directors at the half year in AES Corp: American Electric Power Inc: end of the third financial year, the first year recognition of the substantial improvement Calpine Corp: Centrica: Chubu Electric being the financial year starting immediately in the companys performance during the Power Co Inc: CLP Holdings Limited: before the date of grant.
If not satisfied on first two quarters.
This interim payment was Constellation Energy Group Inc: Dominion the third anniversary, the criterion may be outside of normal policy and it is not Resources Inc: Duke Energy Corp: Dynegy retested, from the same base, on the fourth anticipated that this practice will be Inc: Edison SpA: Edison International: El and fifth anniversaries of grant.
The aggregate of the interim and Paso Corp: Electricidade fide Portugal SA: options lapse at the fifth anniversary.
final payments was kept within the normal Electrabel SA: Endesa SA: Ente Nazionale maximum of 75% of salary.
per lEnergia Elettrica SpA Enel : Entergy The Committee has approved the operation Corp: Exelon: FirstEnergy Corp: FPL Group of the ExSOP for 2003 04 and no changes Executive share plans Inc: Gas Natural SDG SA: Iberdrola SA: have been implemented.
The company operates a performance share Kansai Electric Power Co Inc: Lattice Group plan, known as the Long Term Incentive plc: National Grid Group plc: PPL Corp: excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 63 Performance graph All-employee share plans introduced by the Finance Act 1989.
The new Directors Remuneration Report To facilitate high levels of share ownership Entitlement to pension benets above the Regulations require that a graph be by employees, the company operates a cap cannot be provided through the presented showing the companys TSR savings-related share option plan, which is companys approved pension scheme, and performance against the TSR performance open to executive directors and all UK therefore arrangements on an unapproved of a broad equity market index over a fiveemployees.
Under this plan, options are basis have been made to provide total year period.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen granted over ScottishPower shares at a benets for executives affected by the because it is the principal index in which the discount of 20% from the prevailing market legislation as though there was no cap.
The companys shares are quoted.
The graph price at the time of grant to eligible total liability in respect of executives and below presents the comparative TSR employees who commit to save up to 250 senior employees arising in relation to performance of the company during the per month over a period of three or five unapproved benets accrued for service for period 1 April 1998 31 March 2003.
the year to 31 March 2003 was 208,700. graph shows that ScottishPower has The Trustee body of the Executive Top Up outperformed the index over this period.
The company also operates an Employee Plan is chaired by the Company Secretary.
Share Ownership Plan ESOP and was amongst the first to introduce these The Committee has reported the pension Total shareholder return arrangements for executive directors and all expense in accordance with the Source: Datastream UK employees.
The ESOP enables requirements of the UK Listing Authority 120 employees to purchase shares in the and Directors Remuneration Report 100 company from pre-tax income up to the Regulations.
Pension costs detailed in the limits specified in the legislation.
The value Accounts are calculated as the cost of 80 of these shares is at risk as they are not providing benets accrued in the 2002 03 60 normally released until the legislation year, in accordance with appropriate allows.
The company matches these shares accounting standards.
40 at no cost to the employee on a one-for-one ratio.
The legislation also enables the Benets 20 company to award free shares to Executive directors are eligible for a range of 0 employees.
benets on which they are assessed for tax.
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March These include the provision of a company 98 99 00 01 02 03 The savings-related share option plan and car, fuel, private medical provision and Scottish Power plc FTSE 100 Index the ESOP are all employee Inland Revenue permanent health insurance.
The provision approved plans and as such are not subject and level of benets is reviewed regularly to This graph looks at the value, by 31 March to performance conditions.
ensure that practice is in line with the market.
2003, of 100 invested in ScottishPower on 31 March 1998 compared with that of 100 Pension Service contracts invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other The executive directors, and other UK-based ScottishPower has reviewed its policy on points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
senior managers of the company, are service contracts and, in accordance with provided with pension benets through the the best practice recommendation of the companys main pension scheme, and Combined Code, has resolved that new through an executive top-up pension plan appointees to the Board be offered rolling which provides a maximum pension of twocontracts with notice periods of one year.
thirds of final salary on retirement at age 63, The Committee recognises however that reduced where service to age 63 is less than exceptional circumstances may arise and 20 years.
Pensionable salary is normally that it may be necessary, in the case of base salary in the 12 months prior to appointments from outside the company, to leaving the company although there are offer a longer initial notice period.
In such prescribed mechanisms for calculating cases the intent would be subsequently to pensionable salary by averaging base salary reduce this period to one year following an over a period of up to three out of the last agreed initial period.
The employee contributes 5% of salary to the scheme.
Life assurance The Committees policy on early termination provision of four times pensionable salary is to emphasise the duty to mitigate to the and a widows pension of half the fullest extent practicable.
Senior managers executives pension on death are provided.
within the company have notice periods ranging from six months to one year.
Individuals who joined the company in the UK on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to Executive directors, Charles Berry and David the Inland Revenue earnings cap, Nish, were appointed to the Board on or | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 64 Remuneration Report of the Directors continued after 1 April 1999: these appointments have 1,000 for attending a tranche of meetings Scheme and awards under the LTIP, are rolling service contracts terminable on one that involve a Transatlantic journey.
In line shown on pages 67 to 68. years notice from both parties.
Charles with best practice, the independent nonBerry has a service contract dated 30 July executive directors do not have service Directors and ofcers liability insurance 1999 and subsequently varied and David contracts, are not members of the company's The company maintains liability insurance Nish has a service contract dated 13 pension schemes and do not participate in for the directors and ofcers of the December 1999 and subsequently varied.
any bonus, share option or other profit or company and its subsidiaries.
Both contracts include a clause enabling the long term incentive plan.
Full details of the company, at its sole discretion, to make a remuneration of the non-executive directors Directors emoluments and interests payment in lieu of notice equal to the value are contained in Table 41.
Total emoluments of the salary and contractual benets the Table 41 provides a breakdown of the total executive director would have received Compensation of directors and ofcers emoluments of the Chairman and all the during the notice period.
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to directors in ofce during the year ended 31 provide information on compensation and March 2003.
The Chief Executive, Ian Russell, has a interests for directors and ofcers.
The service contract dated 30 July 1999 aggregate amount of compensation paid by Directors pension benets terminable by the executive on one years the group to all directors and ofcers of the Details of pension benets earned by the notice and by the company on two years company, as a group, was 5,407,075. executive directors during the year are notice.
The Chief Executive has chosen to shown in Table 42. reduce the notice period from the company During 2002 03 the aggregate amount set to one year.
The contract includes a clause aside or accrued by the group to provide enabling the company, at its sole discretion, pension, retirement or similar benets for to make a payment in lieu of notice equal to directors and ofcers of the company the value of the salary and contractual pursuant to any existing plan provided or benets the Chief Executive would have contributed to by the group was received during the notice period.
The 1,016,900. company would however pursue mitigation to minimise, as far as possible, costs to the Interest of management in certain company on termination.
transactions There have been no material transactions The Chairman, Charles Miller Smith, is a during the groups three most recent financial non-executive director and he does not have years, nor are there presently proposed to a service contract with the company.
be any material transactions to which the company or any of its subsidiaries was or is External non-executive appointments a party and in which any director or officer, The company encourages its directors to or 10% shareholder, or any relative or become non-executive directors of other spouse thereof or any relative of such a companies, provided that these spouse, who had the same home as such appointments are not with competing person or who is a director or officer of any companies, are not likely to lead to any subsidiary of the company has or is to have conicts of interest, and do not require a direct or indirect material interest.
extensive commitments of time which would prejudice their roles within the company.
During the groups three most recent This serves to add to their personal and financial years there has been no, and at professional experience and knowledge, to present there is no, outstanding indebtedness the benefit of the company.
Any fees derived to the company or any of its subsidiaries from such appointments may be retained owed or owing by any director or officer of by the executives.
the group or any associate thereof.
Remuneration policy for non-executive Directors interests directors Other than as disclosed, none of the The remuneration of non-executive directors directors had a material interest in any is determined by the Board and, during the contract of signicance with the company year consisted of a base fee of 24,000 p. a. and its subsidiaries during or at the end of a committee membership fee of 3,500 p. a. the financial year.
The directors interests, all a fee of 7,500 p. a. for chairing the Audit beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the Committee and the Remuneration company, including interests in options Committee, and an international travel fee of under the companys ExSOP and Sharesave | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 65 The following tables provide details of the remuneration, pensions and share interests of the directors and the information is audited.
These costs include relocation and repatriation to the UK.
Nolan Karras received emoluments in the US of 16,807 2002 22,613 in respect of services to the PaciCorp and Utah advisory boards in the form of cash and shares.
i The emoluments of the highest paid director Ian Russell excluding pension contributions were 995,280 2002 570,531.
In addition, gains on exercise of share options during the year by Ian Russell amounted to nil 2002 138,628.
Details of other share related incentives are contained in Table 44. ii Ian Russell has an entitlement under the unapproved pension benets described further in Table 42. iii Sir Ian Robinson retired from the Board on 4 May 2001 and as an employee on 31 May 2001.
Alan Richardson retired from the Board and as an employee on 31 December 2001.
Ken Vowles retired from the Board and as an employee on 31 March 2002. iv In addition to the above, payments were made during the financial year ended 31 March 2002 to Sir Ian Robinson, 385,000: Alan Richardson, 372,099: and Ken Vowles, 405,649, in accordance with the terms of their respective contracts.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 66 Remuneration Report of the Directors continued Table 42 Dened benets pension scheme 2002 03 A B Transfer Total Additional value of change in pension increases Value of Value of value during earned Accrued after ination accrued accrued the year in year pension net of pension pension net of Transferred net of at end directors at start at end directorsin benets ination of year contribution of year of year contributions p. a. p. a. p. a. Ian Russell 15,094 11,947 160,286 142,710 1,493,751 1,915,459 416,818 Charles Berry 12,031 97,175 144,625 880,682 1,197,029 311,487 David Nish 37,333 10,851 79,932 100,339 536,162 804,254 263,232 i The accrued entitlement of the highest paid director Ian Russell was 160,286 2002 144,159.
During the year, retirement benets were accrued under the dened benets pension scheme in respect of three directors 2002 five directors.
ii The transfer value of the increases after ination A represents the current capital sum which would be required, using demographic and financial assumptions, to produce an equivalent increase in accrued pension and ancillary benets, excluding the statutory inationary increase, and after deduction of members contributions.
Although the transfer value represents a liability to the Pension Scheme in respect of approved benets and to the company in respect of unapproved benets, it is not a single sum paid or due to be paid to the individual director and cannot therefore meaningfully be added to the annual remuneration.
Instead, this value would not be payable until the directors retirement date, and thereafter would be spread over the remainder of his lifetime and also covering the cost of dependants benets after his death.
iii The total change in value B in the last column of the table above reects the following elements: 1.
Changes to the economic and demographic assumptions underlying the transfer value basis over the year.
Increases in pensionable salary received by directors during the year.
The directors have completed another year of pensionable service during the year.
The directors are a year closer to drawing their pensions at the end of the year.
During the year the transfer value basis for approved benets altered.
The transfer value for approved benets at the start of the year was calculated broadly in line with the statutory Minimum Funding Requirement MFR basis.
However, by the end of the year the MFR transfer value basis for approved benets no longer met the actuarial professions guidance for certifying transfer values.
Based on current market conditions, the end of year transfer value basis provides for higher transfer values than the basis at the start of the year all other things being equal.
The change in the amount of the transfer values over the year includes the effect of uctuations in factors that are beyond the control of the company and its directors, such as stock market movements and long-term interest rates.
iv The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based upon service to the end of the year.
Members of the companys schemes have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benets are included in the above table.
v Directors who joined the pension scheme on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to the earnings cap, introduced in the Finance Act 1989.
Pension entitlements which cannot be provided through the companys approved schemes due to the earnings cap are provided through unapproved pension arrangements, details of which are included in the Remuneration Report.
The pension benets disclosed above include approved and unapproved pension arrangements.
vi The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes the increase due to RPI ination as measured at December 2002 2.9%.
vii The value of directors entitlements has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance note GN11, in two parts: the approved element being based upon the normal cash equivalent transfer value assumptions less directors contributions: the unapproved element being calculated in line with FRS 17 assumptions.
viii Transferred-in benets represent pension rights accrued in respect of previous employments.
ix The total liabilities, calculated on a FRS 17 basis, for the 9 executives and senior employees arising in relation to unapproved benets for service for the year to 31 March 2003 was 208,700 2002 690,000.
All benets for the above are provided on a dened benefit basis.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 67 Table 43 Directors interests in ScottishPower shares Ordinary shares Share options Executive Share options Sharesave Long Term Incentive Plan 1.4.
02 or date of or date of or date of or date of appointment appointment appointment appointment 31.3.
These shares represent, in each case, the maximum number of shares which the directors may receive, dependent on the satisfaction of performance criteria as approved by shareholders in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
These shares represent the number of shares the directors are entitled to receive when the LTIP award is exercisable after the fourth anniversary of grant calculated according to the performance criteria measured over the three-year performance period.
These shares include the number of shares which the directors hold in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, shown below.
Free Partnership Matching Dividend shares shares shares shares Total Ian Russell 50 799 799 135 1,783 Charles Berry 50 799 799 135 1,783 David Nish 50 799 799 135 1,783 Between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003, Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish each acquired 32 Partnership shares and 32 Matching shares as part of the regular monthly transactions of the Employee Share Ownership Plan: and Nolan Karras acquired 20 ScottishPower ADSs 80 Ordinary shares as part of the PaciCorp Compensation Reduction Plan.
Otherwise, there have been no changes to the directors interests between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003.
Awards granted during the year were granted for no consideration.
The market value of a ScottishPower share at the date of grant was 406.00 pence.
Footnote Awards granted to directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 10 May 2003 were as follows: Ian Russell 129,568: Charles Berry 62,790: and David Nish 82,724.
i The market price of the shares at 31 March 2003 was 376.00 pence and the range during 2002 03 was 298.75 pence to 416.00 pence.
ii The Long Term Incentive Plan makes annual awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost to the plan participants up to a maximum value equal to 75% of base salary.
The award will vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that certain performance measures related to the sustained underlying financial performance of the company and improvements in certain Customer Service Standards published by Ofgem, Energywatch and the US Public Utility Commissions are achieved over a period of three financial years commencing with the financial year preceding the date an award is made.
Assuming that such targets have been achieved, the number of shares that can be acquired will be dependent upon how the company ranks in terms of its total shareholder return performance over a three-year period, in comparison to the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index and the Electricity and Water sectors and a group of international energy companies.
A percentage of each half of the award will vest depending upon the companys ranking within each of the comparator groups.
The plan participant may acquire the shares in respect of the percentage of the award which has vested at any time after the third or fourth year, as appropriate, up to the seventh year after the grant of the award.
No dividends accrue to participants prior to vesting.
iii The company grants options annually under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 to relevant executives and senior managers.
These options are subject to the performance criterion that the percentage increase in the companys annualised earnings per share be at least 3% adjusted for any increase in the Retail Price Index.
This criterion is assessed at the end of the third financial year, the first year being the financial year starting immediately before the date of grant.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period it is tested again at the end of the fourth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fifth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, then the options lapse.
iv The option price for Sharesave options is calculated by reference to the middle-market quotation on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation and discounted by 20% in accordance with the Inland Revenue rules for such schemes.
v The number of options granted to a director under the Sharesave Scheme is calculated by reference to the total amount which the director agrees to save for a period of three or five years under an Inland Revenue approved savings contract, subject to a current maximum.
vi Total gains made on exercise of directors share options and awards during the year were 33,580 2002 295,205. vii Awards and options granted during the year under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Share Option Plan 2001 were granted for no consideration.
Footnote Options granted to directors under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 on 10 May 2003 were as follows: Ian Russell 345,514: Charles Berry 167,441: and David Nish 220,598.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Sir Peter Gregson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 May 2003 | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 69 Directors responsibility for the Accounts Cautionary statement for purposes of the differ materially from estimates in the The directors are required by law to prepare Safe Harbor provisions of the Private forward-looking statements.
ScottishPower Accounts for each financial year and to Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 undertakes no obligation to revise these present them annually to the companys forward-looking statements to reect events members at the Annual General Meeting.
Some statements made in this Annual Report or circumstances after the date hereof.
The Accounts, of which the form and &Accounts are forward-looking statements Important factors that may cause results to content are prescribed by the Companies within the meaning of the safe harbor differ from expectations include, for example: Act 1985 and applicable accounting provisions of the Private Securities Litigation standards, must give a true and fair view of Reform Act of 1995.
All statements with any regulatory changes including changes the state of affairs of the company and of respect to us, our corporate plans, future in environmental regulations that may the group as at the end of the financial year, financial condition, future results of increase the operating costs of the group, and of the groups profit or loss for the operations, future business plans, strategies, may require the group to make unforeseen period.
objectives and beliefs and other statements capital expenditures or may prevent the that are not historical facts are forward regulated business of the group from The directors confirm that suitable looking.
Statements containing the words achieving acceptable returns: Accounting Policies have been used and may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, applied consistently, and that reasonable estimate, continue, plan, project, future levels of industry generation and and prudent judgements and estimates target, on track to, strategy, aim, supply, demand and pricing, political have been made in the preparation of the seek, will meet or other similar words are stability, competition and economic growth Accounts for the year ended 31 March also forward looking.
These statements are in the relevant areas in which the group 2003.
The directors also confirm that based on our managements assumptions has operations: applicable accounting standards have been and beliefs in light of the information available followed and that the Accounts have been to us.
These assumptions involve risks and the availability of acceptable fuel at prepared on the going concern basis.
uncertainties which may cause the actual favorable prices: results, performance or achievements to be The directors are responsible for materially different from any future results, the availability of operational capacity of maintaining proper accounting records and performance or achievements expressed or plants: sufficient internal controls to safeguard the implied by such forward-looking statements.
assets of the company and of the group and the success of reorganizational and costto prevent and detect fraud or any other ScottishPower wishes to caution readers, and saving efforts: and irregularities.
others to whom forward-looking statements are addressed, that any such forward-looking development and use of technology, the Auditors statements are not guarantees of future actions of competitors, natural disasters Following the conversion of the companys performance and that actual results may and other changes to business conditions.
auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 21 March 2003 and the directors appointed its successors,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Report of the directors The Report of the Directors comprising the statements and reports has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Andrew Mitchell Secretary 7 May 2003
