Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements introduced by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Unaudited information Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The Board has a long established Committee, which meets at least twice a year.
It is composed of the non-executive directors, who, in the opinion of the Board, are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
Until 1 March 2003, the Committee consisted of Mr P H Blackburn Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr B Cottingham and Mr N C Paul.
From 1 March 2003, the composition of the Committee has been Mr P H Blackburn Chairman, Mr B Cottingham, Mr D A Haxby and Mr L O Tench.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Hampel Code, are set out below.
The 2003 FRC Code will apply for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Committees primary role is to recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Companys executive directors.
The Committee does not consider fees payable to non-executive directors, which is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Chief Executive, Mr D Williams, is consulted on the remuneration of executive directors and attends all meetings, except when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Company Secretary provides information to the Committee and is in attendance at meetings.
The Committee takes independent professional advice, on an ad hoc basis, as required.
In January 2003 the Committee appointed Watson Wyatt LLP to review and report on the remuneration of senior executives.
During the year, the Committee appointed  LLP to review the incentive schemes operated by the Group and made recommendations for the new incentive schemes to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Neither Watson Wyatt LLP nor  LLP provided any other services to the Group.
Statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration for 2004 and subsequent financial years Executive Directors During the year the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the incentive schemes operated by the Group.
Best practice in this area has moved on since the current schemes were introduced, some 7 years ago.
As a result of this review, and subject to shareholder approval at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, a new long term incentive plan and a deferred annual bonus scheme will be operated in future years: full details are included in the Chairmans letter to shareholders which accompanies the Report and Accounts.
An all employee share incentive plan will also be introduced to encourage employee participation in the Company.
It is expected that the current schemes will no longer be operated by the Company in the future.
The Companys policy for 2004 and subsequent years is to provide each executive director with a remuneration package which not only gives a fair degree of security by way of a base salary but also, through an annual bonus and long term incentive plan, gives a significant performance-related element.
In determining the remuneration packages of executive directors, the Committee considers a number of factors including: The basic salaries and benefits available to executive directors of comparable companies: The importance of recruiting and retaining management of an appropriate calibre: and Linking reward to the Groups performance.
The Companys policy on the duration of service contracts is for executive directors to have service contracts terminable by either party giving 12 months notice in writing.
If the Company was to terminate employment in lieu of the 12 months notice period, the executive director would be entitled to a termination payment in accordance with his service contract.
The main components of executive directors remuneration are given below.
Equal importance is attached by the Committee to the basic salary of each executive director, which is not performance related, and to the annual bonus and long term incentive schemes, which sufficiently motivate directors and key employees and only pay significant rewards for the achievement of stretching performance targets.
Base salary and benefits Base salary and benefits are determined on an annual basis by the Committee based upon the recommendations of the Chief Executive and after a review of the individuals performance and market trends.
The Chief Executive does not make recommendations to the Committee in respect of his own remuneration.
The Committee takes into account published remuneration information on comparable companies and salary policy within the rest of the Group.
Benefits include a company car and medical insurance premiums.
Annual bonus The annual performance related bonus provides executive directors with an incentive to achieve performance targets which are set at the beginning of a financial year.
The performance targets are predominantly based on profit before tax either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
In addition, for certain executives, additional targets are based on cash flows and reduction in gearing, again, either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
The maximum annual bonus that can be paid is 50% of basic salary.
The annual bonus is not pensionable.
26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pension schemes All executive directors are members of the Groups main contributory defined benefit pension scheme, which enables members to retire at age 60 with a maximum pension after 40 years pensionable service equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary.
Pensionable salary is basic salary, excluding bonuses, incentive schemes and benefits.
Final pensionable salary is the average of the highest three consecutive pensionable salaries in the last ten years before retirement.
For service up to 31 July 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum compound.
Following consultation with the active membership of the main scheme certain changes were made to the contribution levels and benefits in order to limit future liabilities and, consequently, for service from 1 August 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
On death before retirement, a lump sum equal to 4 times current salary is paid, together with a spouses pension of 50% of pensionable salary.
As part of this scheme, all executive directors are covered by permanent health insurance.
Share option schemes 1989 Executive Share Option Scheme In 1997 this Scheme was superseded by the Long Term Incentive Plan and the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Messrs. D Williams and M J Chivers had awards under this scheme, which had vested but which had not been exercised at 31 December 2003.
There are no performance criteria attached to the exercise of these options.
They must be exercised between three and ten years of the date of grant.
The right to exercise options terminates upon the employee ceasing to hold office or employment with the Group, subject to certain exceptions and the discretion of the Board.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Under the existing LTIP, executives can be awarded an annual grant of nominal value share options up to a maximum value of 50% of base salary.
As set out on page 30 in the directors share options table under the heading Long Term Incentive Plan, Messrs. D Williams, M J Chivers and G W Davies have awards under this scheme, which had not vested at 31 December 2003, and the performance conditions which apply to them are given below.
At the end of the relevant period the Remuneration Committee assesses whether the performance conditions have been satisfied.
Awards under the LTIP are exercisable between three and seven years from the date of grant.
Provided the individuals performance criteria are met the award vests if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 10% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award vests if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
Between these two limits, the award vests proportionately.
The right to exercise options terminates upon the employee ceasing to hold office with the Group, subject to certain exceptions and the discretion of the Board.
If the 6% minimum growth performance target is not met, the performance period is extended by one year and the minimum growth in the Groups earnings per share, over a consecutive four year period, is increased to 8% over the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The maximum for the full award to vest is 13.33%.
The awards for Messrs. D Williams and G W Davies will vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
50% of the awards for Mr Chivers will vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
Providing the 6%, or 8% if extended to a fourth year, minimum growth performance target is met, the remaining 50% of the shares under the award for Mr Chivers will vest in full if the actual profit before tax of the SIG Roofing Supplies operation in aggregate for the consecutive three or four year period, referred to above, exceeds budgeted profit before tax in aggregate for the same period by 1%.
The above performance conditions were chosen because they were believed to be challenging and not only take account of the need for long-term performance and commitment but also are an important means of aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
1997 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Under the existing ESOS, executives can be awarded an annual grant of share options at market price, provided that the total amount payable by the individual to exercise options under the ESOS or any other share option scheme of the Group excluding savings related schemes granted during the immediately preceding 10 years does not exceed 4 times base salary, bonus and benefits.
As set out on page 30 in the directors share options table under the heading 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme, Mr Davies has awards under this scheme, which had not vested at 31 December 2003, to which the performance condition in the next paragraph applies.
Share options under the ESOS are exercisable between three and ten years for the Inland Revenue approved scheme and three and seven years for the unapproved scheme from the date of grant.
The award would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 6% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award would vest if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The above performance condition was chosen because it was believed to be challenging and not only takes account of the need for long-term performance and commitment but also is an important means of aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
Savings Related Schemes The Company operates within the UK a savings related share option scheme which is open to all UK employees and is linked to a monthly savings contract over three and five year periods.
Options have been granted to scheme participants at 80% of the prevailing market price.
Similar arrangements have been introduced in the Republic of Ireland.
There are no performance conditions attached to the exercise of these options.
These options may be exercised within a fixed six month period three or five years from the date of grant.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 27 Directors Remuneration Report continued The right to exercise options terminates if the employee ceases to be employed by the Group otherwise than by way of death, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement or Group reconstruction.
Exercise of options following cessation of employment by early retirement or other reason is permitted at the discretion of the Board provided that the date of cessation is at least three years after the date of grant.
Non-executive Directors For non-executive directors the Companys policy is that the appointment will be for an initial term of three years unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
Non-executive directors will be expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional period.
The executive directors are responsible for recommending to the Board the fees of non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors do not receive benefits from the Company.
They are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme or participate in any bonus or incentive scheme or any of the Companys share option schemes.
Directors contracts Non-executive directors, who held office at 31 December 2003, were appointed for an initial term of three years.
With the exception of Mr B Cottingham, their appointment is terminable by either party giving three months written notice.
Mr B Cottinghams appointment is subject to a rolling twelve months notice on either side and, in the event of a merger or take-over, his services may be terminated by the payment of 12 months remuneration, at his current rate, in lieu of notice.
Mr B Cottingham has indicated that he will be stepping down after the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
The executive directors, who held office at 31 December 2003, have service contracts for a continuous term to retirement age, which is 65, providing for a rolling 12 months notice period in writing by either party.
The service contract for Mr D Williams is dated 7 May 2002.
The Company can terminate his employment forthwith in lieu of a 12 month notice period or any unexpired portion thereof by paying to him an amount equal to his basic salary for such period and an amount in lieu of bonus which he would have received had he remained employed during the notice period and providing him with all benefits to which he is entitled, with the exception of his company car.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which he may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
The service contracts for Messrs. M J Chivers and G W Davies are dated 1 January 1995 and 1 August 2002 respectively.
The Company can discharge any obligation in relation to the unexpired portion of their notice period or any notice required to be given under their service contracts by making a payment in lieu thereof subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which the executive may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys three month moving average Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, compared with the performance of the FTSE Construction & Buildings Material Index, also measured by TSR, over the 5 year period ended 31 December 2003.
This index has been selected because the Company believes that the constituent companies comprising the FTSE Construction & Buildings Material Index are the most appropriate for this comparison as they are affected by similar commercial and economic factors.
Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 January 1999 to 31 December 2003 3 month moving average SIG plc FTSE Construction & Building Materials Index 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 01 January 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 1999 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 28 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 TRS Rebased 100 at January 1999 Audited information Directors emoluments The emoluments of the individual directors were as follows: Performance 2003 2002 Salary related Total Total and fees bonus Benefits emoluments emoluments 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive D Williams 285 101 14 400 280 M J Chivers 150 70 10 230 203 G W Davies 150 71 13 234 69 F C Prust 525 Non-executive B Cottingham Chairman 93 93 92 P H Blackburn 32 32 31 N C Paul 8 8 31 L O Tench 32 32 D A Haxby 27 27 777 242 37 1,056 1,231 There were no expense allowance or compensation for loss of office payments.
Benefits relate to the estimated value of the provision of a company car and medical insurance premiums.
The emoluments of Messrs. L O Tench and D A Haxby are for the period from the date of their appointment as directors.
The emoluments of Messrs. F C Prust and N C Paul are for the period up to the date of their resignation.
There were no sums paid to third parties in respect of the services of any director.
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the executive directors.
Directors pensions The following directors had retirement benefits accruing under the Companys main contributory defined benefit scheme in respect of qualifying services during the year: Transfer Increase value of Contributions Transfer value in accrued increase in Accrued Transfer Transfer made by increase after Increase benefits accrued benefits value at value at Executive to deducting in accrued net of benefits net 31 December 31 December 1 January the scheme Executive benefits inflation of inflation 2003 2003 2003 in the year contributions 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s D Williams 20 19 208 96 1,520 1,199 21 300 M J Chivers 11 10 102 62 931 769 11 151 G W Davies 6 5 25 18 152 102 11 39 after deduction of directors contributions The transfer values disclosed above are calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes - Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
They do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director, but instead represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Members of the above scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither such contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 29 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors share options Messrs. B Cottingham, P H Blackburn, D A Haxby and L O Tench, as non-executive directors, did not hold or have granted any share options during the year.
There are no performance criteria for the 1989 Executive Share Option Scheme or the Savings Related Schemes.
Options under the Long Term Investment Plan and 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme are subject to the performance criteria set out on page 27.
There was no variation made in the financial year either to the performance criteria set out on page 27 or in the terms and conditions of any of the above share options.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2003 was 325p and the range during 2003 was 165p to 340p.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2004 and signed on its behalf by: P H Blackburn, Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 31
