SSL International plc 29 Remuneration Report Annual Report 2003 Remuneration Report No other services were provided The maximum bonus payment for The Committee determine the matching This report sets out the Companys to the Company by external advisers the Chief Executive is 60 per cent level for the award of performance remuneration policy and practice for to the Committee.
of basic salary: for other Executive shares on an annual basis: their most Executive and Non-Executive Directors Directors the maximum is 50 per cent recent policy has been to match for the year ended 31 March 2003, Executive Directors of basic salary, which would be paid deferrals on a one-to-one basis.
The as determined by the Remuneration Remuneration Policy upon achieving 105 per cent of targets.
performance shares vest at the end of Committee under power delegated Remuneration policy is designed to For achieving targets a bonus of 35 the three-year deferral period, subject to it by the Board.
ensure that remuneration packages per cent of basic salary would be to the satisfaction of a performance are competitive but not excessive paid to the Chief Executive with condition.
Performance shares awarded It is now a requirement of the Companies by reference to the relevant market.
the Executive Directors receiving in 2000 will not vest as the criteria have Act 1985 that certain parts of this report The Committee reviews levels of 30 per cent of basic salary.
Pro rata not been achieved.
For the 2002 award, are audited.
For the sake of clarity those compensation against externallyamounts would be paid for achieving performance shares vest if the increase sections that have been audited are sourced data from independent a level of performance between the in the earnings per share of SSL exceed marked as audited information.
In the case of UK Directors, maximum and minimum targets.
inflation plus two per cent per annum the Committee refers to data provided over the three-year deferral period.
Remuneration Committee by Mercer and comparisons are made In the event of a change of control, The Remuneration Committee the against the IDS Directors Pay Report the Remuneration Committee retains Executive Share Option Schemes: Committee determines remuneration published from time to time.
Steve absolute discretion as to what, if any, Grants of options over shares with a policies and practice with the aims of Eastwoods compensation is provided bonuses are paid.
face value on the date of grant equal securing the talent that the Company in Aus $ and is considered against to one times basic salary were made needs to meet its business aims and the Australian market place for senior Long-Term Incentives: Historically, to Executive Directors and other senior encouraging superior performance.
executives, taking into account his the Company has made annual awards executives during 2002 standard The Committee determines the Asia Pacific responsibilities.
of both share options through the options.
Following the amendment individual remuneration packages Executive Share Option Schemes and of the rules of the unapproved Executive of the Leadership Team comprising In order to motivate executives to achieve performance shares through deferred Share Option Scheme at the 2002 AGM, of the Executive Directors and certain superior performance, the Committee bonus share matching within the Longto incentivise the Executive Directors other senior executives.
believes that a significant proportion Term Incentive Plan LTIP in order additional grants of options over shares of remuneration should be linked to to link rewards with real improvements with a face value equal to one times The Committee also has oversight individual and Company performance.
in longer-term financial performance salary were made and a lesser level of the operation of all the Companys of the Company.
These awards were to certain members of the Leadership share and share option plans.
It is the Remuneration Committees also intended to encourage Executive Team additional options.
intention to review remuneration policy Directors to hold a significant amount The Committees overall objective when during 2003 to ensure all elements of their remuneration in shares.
To receive an issue of standard options, carrying out its duties is to balance the align with the revised business strategy in subsequent years, the participant interests of shareholders, the Company following the planned disposal of the No changes have been made to the will be expected to retain 30 per cent and its employees.
performance conditions of existing of shares acquired on exercise.
grants or awards under the schemes.
The Committee comprises all the NonPending the outcome of this review, The Companys historical long-term The Executives ability to exercise Executive Directors of the Company the intention of the Remuneration incentive arrangements are as follows: standard options is subject to the namely: Committee for the year to 31 March Company meeting a performance 2004 is to grant options to certain LTIP: The Leadership Team and certain target see below, with additional Tim Howden Committee Chairman key employees below Leadership Team other senior executives have been options subject to more stringent Eric Anstee level in June.
No options or LTIP interests eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Bernd Beetz will be granted to members of the the LTIP, participants can elect to invest Ian Martin Leadership Team until the policy review up to 50 per cent of their annual cash Performance conditions were as follows Dr Peter Read is complete and the Remuneration bonus into Company shares deferred for awards made during 2002: Committee has formulated a new bonus shares, and a conditional Alain Strasser was a member of the long-term incentive policy for that group.
matching award of Company shares For standard options, the option may Committee until he resigned from the performance shares is made by only be exercised if over a period of Board on 16 May 2003.
Rod Sellers Remuneration Constituents the Company.
three years commencing on 1 April was also a Committee member until Basic Salary: Basic salaries are 2002, the percentage growth in his resignation on 16 July 2002.
Robert determined annually by reference The deferred bonus shares are held normalised earnings per share of Dwyer, Group HR Director, served to externally-sourced data, targeting in trust for a period of three years, the Company exceeds the percentage as Committee Secretary throughout a median to upper quartile market after which they vest, provided that growth in the retail price index by the year.
Brian Buchan Group Chief salary position.
the individual remains in employment at least an average of two per cent per Executive and Jonathan Jowett with the Company.
During this deferral annum in respect of options granted Company Secretary attended Annual Bonus Plan: The Committee period the participant retains the voting in July 2002, and three per cent per by invitation.
Jonathan Jowett is agrees annual bonus plan targets for rights associated with the deferred annum for options granted in now Committee Secretary and the Leadership Team.
These targets bonus shares and the trustees pay over November 2002.
These conditions has also assumed responsibility have historically been based on the to the participant any dividends paid may be waived by the Directors in for corporate HR.
Companys budgeted performance on those shares.
Deferred bonus shares exceptional circumstances if the for the year, specifically the Companys are at risk should the individual leave participant ceases to be in employment.
During the year the Committee received earnings per share performance, organic the Company during the deferral If conditions have not been met in advice from the following external sales growth and working capital.
period at the discretion of the trustees.
full after three years there will be no remuneration consultants: In practice deferred bonus shares are retesting and the options will lapse.
For the year to 31 March 2004, bonus normally released to good leavers, Mercer Human Resource Consulting plan targets will be based upon a while participants who leave the Mercer provided advice on combination of Company, divisional for Company other than for good leaver actuarial matters and pay and those Executive Directors with divisional reasons usually forfeit their deferred pension provision for the Leadership responsibility and personal targets.
Performance shares Team: and are normally forfeited in all cases.
Ernst & Young LLP provided advice on the Groups employee share schemes.
Remuneration Report continued SSL International plc 30 Annual Report 2003 Vesting conditions for additional options Pension Garry Watts received a payment to The Company operates a contracted-in a personal pension plan and a cash Ranking of Company TSR Percentage of option which vs FTSE250 become exercisable defined contribution scheme the SSL payment in lieu of contributions UK Pension Scheme for UK employees.
Below sixth decile 0% For Executive Directors, Company policy Sixth decile 50% is to contribute 25 per cent of basic Andrew Slater, who resigned as a Between sixth decile and eighth decile Pro-rata between 50% and salary which is subject to income tax Director on 30 April 2003, in addition 100% on a straight line basis and Inland Revenue limits and the to being a member of the SSL UK Eighth decile and above 100% individual pays five per cent of basic Pension Scheme, is a member of the salary.
The Company investigated London International Group UK Pension For additional options, the option On a change of financial control of the introducing Funded Unapproved Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.
is subject to performance conditions Company, the performance conditions Retirement Benefits Schemes FURBS In February 2001, this scheme was that must be satisfied over initially a attached to standard options fall away but none of the Executives sought closed to new entrants and the accrual three-year period although this period and the options vest in full.
For additional to implement such schemes.
Instead of future years benefits was linked may be extended up to five years.
options, the treatment depends on the they receive a cash payment in lieu to future salary growth based on The performance conditions are timing of the change of control relative of contribution, to the FURBS.
pensionable service to the date of in two parts: to the award of the options.
Andrew retains preserved change of control happens within 18 Brian Buchans pension arrangements benefits in this scheme.
The percentage growth in months of the award of the additional were finalised during the year.
Backdated normalised earnings per share options those options will not vest.
contributions were made on his behalf Steve Eastwoods pension contributions of the Company exceeds the If the change of control happens more to the SSL UK Pension Scheme and are paid into a personal Superannuation percentage growth in the retail than 18 months after the date of award a cash payment was made in lieu of Scheme in Australia.
price index by at least an average then the vesting of additional options contributions to the FURBS.
of three per cent per annum: and is based on performance up to the date Service Contracts The Companys Total Shareholder of the change of control against the It is intended that future appointments Return shall, when ranked against performance conditions attached to to the Board will generally be terminable the Total Shareholder Return of the option, with the proportion vesting on one years notice, other than where constituent companies of the calculated on a pro rata basis.
a longer term may be required.
FTSE250 have reached at least the sixth decile and thereafter On termination, the vesting of The Executive Directors are subject as shown in the table above.
long-term incentive interests is at to notice periods as described below.
the discretion of the Remuneration Limited re-testing is allowed for a Committee.
Normal practice is as Director Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period further two years after the initial three follows: unvested share options years to allow the Executive to benefit will lapse on the day that the Director Brian Buchan 1 March 2001 One year rolling Reduced to from driving up shareholder value.
ceases to be employed by the Company.
one year with The re-testing is levered and Executives Good leavers will be entitled to effect from will need to perform exceptionally exercise mature options for a period 12 March 2003 well in years four or five to increase the of 12 months from date of leaving.
Garry Watts 5 February 2001 One year rolling Reduced to percentage vesting.
The options will one year with lapse unless exercised within seven years.
Other Benefits effect from The Company provides competitive 7 February 2003 non-cash benefits to Executive Directors.
Steve Eastwood 1 April 2000 Two year rolling Two years These include use of a company car In the event of a change of financial control, the notice periods for Brian Buchan or payment of a car allowance, medical and Garry Watts will be increased to two years from the date of the change insurance, life assurance premiums and of control, such increase remaining in effect for one year.
The Executive Directors are also eligible to take part in the Companys all employee share plans, specifically the Companys UK Sharesave Scheme, US Stock Purchase Plan if a Director worked in the USA and Global Share Savings Plan in the case of Steve Eastwood.
Remuneration Report continued SSL International plc 31 Annual Report 2003 If the employment of Brian Buchan Non-Executive Directors Fees 140 or Garry Watts is terminated following Ian Martin was appointed as Non- 120 a change of financial control, or if as a Executive Chairman on 1 September result of such change their status and 2001 for a term of three years.
100 duties materially diminish, each will 80 be, entitled to receive the equivalent This is terminable by 12 months notice 60 of 1.5 times the value of: basic salary, from the Company and six months 40 bonus based on the average paid over notice from the Chairman.
His Letter the preceding three years, pension of Appointment entitles him to fees 20 benefits and any other benefits in kind.
totalling 175,000 pa, a company car 0 and fuel and the services of a driver Mar 98 Mar 99 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 If the employment of an Executive to which he contributes 50 per cent Director is terminated by the Company of the cost.
FTSE350 for any other reason, the Committees Index SSL current policy is to calculate a termination Other Non-Executive Directors payment based upon an annualised receive a basic fee of 25,000, with an Total Shareholder Return over last five years entitlement.
Levels of mitigation additional amount of 3,000 awarded would be determined by reference to Committee Chairmen.
to the individual circumstances of the Executive Director.
Appropriate external Full details of all remuneration, advice would also be obtained.
shareholdings and interests in the Companys share option schemes Andrew Slater resigned as a Director are shown on pages 32 to 34. on 30 April 2003 and left the Company on 31 May 2003.
He had a contract Performance Graph of service with a two-year notice period.
The graph shows the Companys total A settlement agreement is currently shareholder return TSR performance being negotiated, but it is estimated compared with that of the FTSE350 that Andrew can receive a payment Index.
The FTSE350 Index was selected up to a maximum of 811,800, which as an appropriate comparator index is equivalent to 24 months salary and because it is a broad equity market benefits under his service agreement.
index of which SSL is a constituent.
50,000 of this payment is being paid as consideration for Andrew entering into restrictive covenants.
Of the remainder, 50 per cent is payable to Andrew on leaving the Company although part of this payment would be paid into the Companys pension scheme to secure additional benefits for Andrew.
Under the proposed settlement agreement, Andrew has a duty to mitigate his loss.
Accordingly, entitlement to any further payment from the Company is only payable after the first anniversary of his departure from the Company and any remuneration he receives from subsequent employment will be set-off against it.
Remuneration Report continued SSL International plc 32 Annual Report 2003 Directors Remuneration audited information Salaries Annual 2003 2002 and fees bonuses Benefits Total Total Note 000 000 000 000 000 Current Directors Non-Executive Chairman I.
Remuneration shown above only relates to the period for which each Director served during the year.
Benefits include company cars or car allowance, driver services, fuel, medical insurance and life assurance premiums.
Brian Buchans benefits include 189,997 received as a payment in lieu of pension benefits covering the period from when he joined the Company to 31 March 2003.
Garry Watts benefits include 48,650 2002: 61,440 received as a payment in lieu of pension benefits.
The Former Directors all left the Company prior to 31 March 2002.
Directors Pensions audited information The following Director has entitlements under the London International Group UK Pension Scheme.
The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 1 February 2001 when pensionable service for all members of the Scheme ceased.
Transfer value of Transfer value Transfer value Increase in accrued pension of increase in of accrued transfer value net Total accrued Increase in Total accrued at 31.03.02 accrued pension pension at Contributions of Directors pension at accrued pension pension at net of inflation 31.03.03 from Director contribution 31.03.02 during the year 31.03.03 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A. Slater 969 84 1,209 240 110 10 120 Note: 1.
No other Director obtained pension entitlements in defined benefit schemes during the period.
The following Directors received contributions as detailed below.
2003 2002 Company Company contribution contribution 000 000 B. J. Buchan 30 S. Eastwood 38 32 A. Slater 69 49 G. Watts 19 19 Total 156 100 Notes: 1.
Brian Buchans pension arrangements were finalised during the year.
His contributions were paid into the SSL UK Pension Scheme.
Steve Eastwoods pension contributions were paid into a personal Superannuation Scheme in Australia.
Andrew Slaters contributions were paid into the SSL UK Pension Scheme.
Garry Watts pension contributions were paid to a personal pension plan.
Total contributions to defined contribution schemes for 2002 was 112,000.
During the year ended 31 March 2002 one Director accrued benefits to both a defined benefit scheme and the Companys defined contribution scheme and two further Directors accrued benefits to the Companys defined benefit scheme.
Remuneration Report continued SSL International plc 33 Annual Report 2003 Directors Interests audited information Shareholdings The holdings of Directors including those of their families in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the period end were as follows: 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Beneficial Beneficial shares shares E. E. Anstee 10,418 B. Beetz B. J. Buchan 48,000 40,000 S. Eastwood 73,733 61,733 T. S. Howden 5,816 5,816 I.
No Director held non-beneficial shares.
Under the 1996 Scheme, for those options marked 1 exercise is subject to not less than three consecutive years of growth in normalised earnings per share exceeding the growth in the retail price index by at least an average two per cent per annum.
For those marked 2 exercise is subject to performance conditions that must be satisfied over initially a three-year period although this may be extended up to five years.
The exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share exceeding the growth in the retail price index by at least an average of three per cent per annum and Total Shareholder Return of the Company, when compared to Total Shareholder Return of companies of the FTSE250 reaching sixth decile for 50 per cent of the option to become exercisable, between sixth and eighth for a pro-rate between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the option to become exercisable and eighth decile and above for 100 per cent of the option to become exercisable.
From February 1996, grants made under the 1991 Scheme are conditional upon growth in earnings per share exceeding by two per cent per annum the growth in the retail price index over the period between grant and exercise.
A. Slaters options over 2,057 shares at 822.0p lapsed on 24 June 2002, options over 6,931 shares at 873.0p lapsed on 8 December 2002, options over 2,236 shares at 444.0p lapsed on 17 January 2003 SAYE and options over 1,584 shares at 426.0p lapsed on 15 April 2003 SAYE.
No options were exercised in the period or the previous period.
There are no performance criteria for exercise of options under the SAYE schemes.
The market price of the Companys shares was 166p on 31 March 2003 and ranged from 166p to 581p during the year.
These grants are exercisable subject to the performance conditions being met.
These conditions have not been met to date.
LTIP audited information Outstanding awards under The SSL International Long-Term Incentive Plan as at 31 March 2003 are as follows: Performance Performance Performance Deferred shares Deferred shares Deferred shares shares as at shares awarded shares as at as at awarded in as at 31 March 2002 in the period 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 the period 31 March 2003 B. J. Buchan 7,990 7,990 7,990 7,990 S. Eastwood 3,484 4,041 7,525 3,484 4,041 7,525 A. Slater 4,541 5,194 9,735 4,541 5,194 9,735 Notes: 1.
These awards were made in July 2000 and June 2002.
For awards made in July 2000 the vesting of the performance shares is subject to the earnings per share increasing by inflation plus five per cent per annum over a continuous period of three years.
These shares will not vest as the criteria have not been achieved.
For awards made in July 2002 the vesting of the performance shares is subject to the earnings per share increasing by inflation plus two per cent per annum over a continuous period of three years.
For awards made in July 2000, the market price on the date of award was 717p and for awards made in June 2002, the market price on date of award was 370p.
Deferred awards made in July 2000 vest on 4 July 2003 as do performance awards subject to the condition in note 1.
Deferred awards made in June 2002 vest on 17 June 2005 as do performance awards, subject to the condition in note 1.
There has been no change in Directors interests between 31 March 2003 and 4 June 2003.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Tim Howden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 June 2003
