Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2003 The following report complies with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, which came into force in August 2002 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr P S Wood Chairman, Mr P J Welch and Mr G Montezemolo.
The Committee is responsible for determining the companys policy on executive remuneration and the specific remuneration for each of the executive directors including pension rights.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the remuneration of senior executives throughout the group.
The Committee was assisted in its deliberations on executive directors remuneration by Monks Partnership Monks.
With the approval of the Remuneration Committee, Monks have been retained by the company and during the year provided general executive remuneration advice for salary review purposes and specific remuneration advice in connection with the recruitment of senior executives.
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors, including members of the Remuneration Committee but the non-executive directors do not participate in the decision on their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee met twice during 2003.
Remuneration Policy Non-executive directors remuneration The remuneration of non-executive directors was reviewed during the first half of 2003 with the assistance of advice from Monks who provided a report on fee market guidelines.
Following that review it was decided to increase the fees paid to all non-executive directors other than the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman to 26,000 per annum and to increase the fees paid to the Chairman to 100,000 per annum, all with effect from 1 July 2003.
The fees paid to the Deputy Chairman were not increased and remain at 33,000 per annum.
The previous increase in non-executive directors fees took effect from March 2000.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive awards under any of the companys share schemes or other employee benefit schemes nor does the company make any contribution to their pension arrangements.
Dr M J Peagram holds share options relating to his service with Holliday Chemical Holdings PLC.
No options have been granted to non-executive directors in their capacity as non-executive directors of the company.
Executive directors remuneration The companys policy for 2003 was and continues to be for 2004 and subsequent years to structure executive pay in such a way that key executives may be recruited, motivated and retained through being offered remuneration packages that are competitive.
For that purpose, the Committee uses data provided by external independent surveys relevant to the industry or sector in which each Yule Catto subsidiary operates.
Whilst not adopting set formulae the Committee is also sensitive to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group when considering annual salary increases and total remuneration.
The major element of the remuneration package of senior executives is a competitive basic salary which is reviewed with effect from 1 January each year.
For executive directors this review is conducted with the assistance of an annual independent survey of salaries at UK industrial and service companies with a similar profile to the company in terms of overseas operations, turnover and market capitalisation plus UK chemical companies.
The survey presents market guidelines for basic pay and increases in basic salaries for executive directors in the UK during the previous twelve months.
The Committee then use this information to recommend basic salaries for the executive directors in line with the Boards policy of awarding for good performance a basic salary of approximately the market median for companies of a similar size and complexity.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has overseen the introduction of special incentives, which are designed to reward the achievement of predetermined targets by the individuals concerned.
These incentives, which were designed in accordance with the provisions of Schedule A to the Code of Best Practice, currently comprise annual cash bonuses and membership of one of two shareholder approved longer-term incentive plans the Share Plans.
Annual cash bonuses The annual cash bonus payment for the executive directors is an amount equal to the percentage of basic pay calculated by reference to the annual growth in the companys adjusted earnings per share after deducting the annual rise in the rate of headline inflation RPI multiplied by a factor of 2.5 subject to a limit of 50% of basic pay.
For divisional chief executives, managing directors of subsidiary companies and senior head office employees the annual cash bonus payments are based on appropriate combinations of profit, cash flow and safety and environmental targets and personal business objectives.
In 2003 the bonuses were subject to limits of 40%, 35% and 30% of basic pay respectively.
The structures of the bonuses and awards under it are reviewed periodically and are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
28 29 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 Share plans The Share Plans comprise the Performance Share Plan the Performance Plan and the Longer-term Deferred Bonus Plan the Deferred Plan.
The Performance Plan was introduced in 2002 following shareholder approval at that years Annual General Meeting and covers the executive directors, divisional chief executives and senior head office employees.
An award consists of a right to acquire shares which can be exercised for a nominal price, subject to the company satisfying performance conditions.
For awards made in 2003 an award will vest in respect of 100 per cent of the shares only if the companys adjusted earnings per share over a three year period ending on 31 December 2005 has increased by more than the annual rise in RPI plus 6% per annum compound compared with the companys adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2002 with adjusted earnings per share to be calculated on a consistent basis.
The award will not vest in respect of any shares unless the companys earnings per share over the same period has increased by at least the annual rise in RPI plus 3% per annum compound at which point the award will vest in respect of 30 per cent of the shares under the award.
The proportion of the award which will vest for an increase in the companys earnings per share over the same period between these points will be calculated on a straight line basis.
In addition an award which vests in accordance with these targets will only be exercisable and allocated shares may only be transferred as to one half after the third anniversary of the date the award is made and as the remaining half after the fourth anniversary of the date the award is made.
The Remuneration Committee in considering what performance conditions should be set for awards under the Performance Plan to be made in 2004 was conscious that in setting such conditions it must take into account the fact that the companys results in 2003 were boosted by the launch of generic omeprazole in the USA.
Accordingly, the conditions for 2004 will be based upon the 2003 adjusted earnings per share figure of 27.6p reduced by 7.6p to take account of this highly unusual factor but otherwise in accordance with the performance conditions for 2003.
The value of shares awarded under the Performance Plan in any financial year to any individual may not exceed 100 per cent of his annual basic salary.
The Performance Plan replaced the companys Longer-term Performance Share Plan which covered the same group of executives.
Awards made under that plan in 2001 which also consisted of a right to acquire shares which could be exercised for a nominal price are still subject to the company satisfying performance conditions.
Those performance conditions are measured by comparing the growth in adjusted earnings per share with that of a similar group of UK and continental European chemical companies over a three year period subject to such growth being not less than 2% above inflation in each of the three Note years.
If the companys earnings per share growth is in the top quartile of the comparator group over that period, the participant may receive the full number of shares awarded to him or her: if worse than the 60th percentile in the comparator group, the participant will receive nothing.
Between the 25th and 60th percentiles, the proportion of the maximum award will be calculated on a sliding scale with 100 per cent of the maximum award payable at the 25th percentile and 20 per cent payable at the 60th percentile.
In addition an award must be exercised as to one third after each of three, four and five years.
The value of shares awarded under the Longer-term Performance Share Plan in any financial year to any individual could not exceed 50% of his annual salary excluding benefits in kind.
In 2003 the performance conditions relating to the awards made in 2000 were assessed.
As a result of the growth in the companys earnings per share over the three year period from 2000 to 2002 ranking it fifth in the comparator group of twenty four companies each participant received 100% of the shares awarded in 2000.
When it considered the replacement of the Longer-term Performance Share Plan the Remuneration Committee was particularly conscious that a new share plan for the companys key executives should be competitive and align executives interests with those of shareholders.
It also considered that it was not practical at that time to set a performance condition by reference to the performance of a comparator group of companies as consolidation in the companys sector over recent years has made it increasingly difficult to compile a stable comparator group.
Further, awards using the performance conditions attaching to awards under the Longer-term Performance Share Plan could vest in part even where the companys performance was below median performance in the comparator group.
For these reasons the performance conditions for awards under the Performance Share Plan will only normally be exercisable if stretching earnings per share targets are met.
The Deferred Plan covers managing directors of subsidiary companies and an award takes the form of a right to acquire shares in the company which can be exercised for a nominal price after three years.
The value of shares subject to an award is determined by reference to sustained growth in the profit before tax set at a minimum of 5% per annum of the company or subsidiary for which the participant works by reference to a base year determined at the date of grant.
The value of shares subject to an award may not exceed 20% of any participants basic salary in any year.
During 2003, 371,102 shares and 14,008 shares were awarded under the Performance Plan and the Deferred Plan respectively.
Executive directors are entitled to participate in grants of options made under the companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme as and when these are made.
Note The comparator group comprises: Ascot Chemicals Limited, British Vita plc, Ciba Speciality Chemicals Inc, Clariant Chemicals plc, Croda International plc, Degussa AG, DSM NV, Elementis plc, European Colour plc, Imperial Chemical Industries plc, Johnson Matthey plc including former Meconic plc business, Kemira oyj, Lonza Biologics plc, Rhodia sa, Scapa Group plc, Victrex plc, Yorkshire Chemicals plc, Zotefoams plc.
Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension arrangements Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
Their spouses are eligible for widows pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
Where possible the pension arrangements provide for a pension on retirement at the age of 60 of 2 3 basic annual salary.
No other payments to directors are pensionable.
To the extent that a directors benefits from the company scheme are restricted by Inland Revenue limits, payments are made to enable the director to make his own arrangements.
There are no unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for directors.
Remuneration details The amount and components of the directors remuneration are set out below.
No elements of remuneration other than basic salary are pensionable.
Service contracts No director other than Mr A Walker and Mr S V Cummins has a service contract.
Mr Walkers service contract comprises a letter of appointment dated 10 April 1986 as subsequently amended, has no unexpired term, provides for a notice period of one year and makes no provision for pre-determined compensation on termination.
Mr Cummins service contract comprises a letter of appointment dated 21 June 1999, has no unexpired term, provides for a notice period of one year and makes no provision for pre-determined compensation on termination.
The Remuneration Committees policy on contracts and notice periods for executive directors is to seek to comply with best practices in corporate governance.
Total shareholder return over 5 years The following graph compares the share price performance of the company by reference to total shareholder return with that of the FTSE 250.
As the company is a member of the FTSE 250 this is considered to be the most appropriate index against which to make a comparison.
30 31 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003
