Remuneration report The remuneration committee comprises four of the non-executive directors as detailed on page 65 and throughout 2003 was chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the remuneration committee, in both 2003 and 2004, are considered by the board to be independent in corporate governance terms see the Corporate governance report for information on Stephan Buck.
Mike Petch, Group Human Resources Director and Jane Drysdale, Group Compensation and Benefits Director provide support and information to the remuneration committee.
External advice is received from time to time from New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC, Mercer Human Resource Consultants Mercer and ORC Worldwide ORC on remuneration matters that affect senior executives.
In addition, the group participates in and purchases a number of remuneration surveys, the data from which are used to help formulate remuneration decisions.
NBSC, Mercer and ORC provide compensation advice to the human resources team on other remuneration-related matters, but do not undertake tax or audit services, or any other services that may lead to a conflict of interest.
The remuneration committees role is to advise the board on overall remuneration policy and, on its behalf, to determine the remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior executives.
The committees responsibilities are: to ensure that, in determining salary, its policy and practices support business strategy by being competitive and cost-effective: to align the interests of executive directors and senior executives with those of shareholders, through the establishment of appropriate short and long-term incentives: to determine performance targets applicable to the annual bonus and long-term incentives: to ensure that the determination of remuneration packages follows formal and transparent procedures, and that due regard is given to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the Combined Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance.
Remuneration policy The following remuneration principles apply across the group to all employees, including executive directors and senior executives: total remuneration should be structured to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key individuals: remuneration should be competitive in the local and global market places: bonus plans should be in place to encourage delivery against challenging annual financial targets: individuals long-term interests should be aligned with company performance through share option plans and equity participation: individuals should have an appropriate balance of salary, short and long-term incentives and benefits within their total remuneration.
In reviewing executive directors base pay, the committee takes into account external market data supplied by independent professional sources.
For competitive benchmarking purposes, the group continues to position itself against companies in the FTSE 250, with a specific focus on those organisations with sector and size similarities.
A number of the groups key senior executives are located outside the UK.
Total remuneration, therefore, is compared internationally and locally.
Whilst it is not currently possible to obtain comparable market research-sector pay data, the company is itself working with ORC and other global market research companies to facilitate the establishment of such a survey.
In the meantime, particular regard is given as far as possible to the levels of remuneration in the sectors in which the company competes.
The remuneration committees objective is that cash remuneration is typically positioned at the median of the comparative market place, with high-performing individuals able to increase their total remuneration above the median through their annual bonus plans and incentive arrangements.
The fees of the non-executive directors are a matter reserved for the executive directors.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the companys pension, annual bonus or share option plans and fees are paid entirely in cash.
With effect from 1 January 2004 the company changed the fee structure for its non-executive directors, so that remuneration is built up from a base fee, committee membership fees, and committee chairmanship fees, in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The company currently has no plans to pay part of non-executive directors fees in shares.
Following the NFO acquisition, integration has been the primary goal for the company, with the aim of creating a harmonised approach to total compensation, including employee benefits.
This is seen as essential to facilitate career development and movement of employees and to serve as an attraction and retention tool within the enlarged group.
New senior roles have been created and a total review of senior contracts and remuneration is currently underway, for conclusion in 2004.
In the light of the enlarged group and associated broader responsibilities, the committee will be reviewing the overall remuneration package for senior executives in 2004. the sixth sense of business 73 Board changes Following the acquisition of NFO in July 2003, William Lipner, former Chairman and CEO of NFO, joined the board as Vice Chairman.
In October 2003, David Lowden was promoted to the newly created board-level role of Chief Operating Officer.
The company recruited Andy Boland as the new Finance Director in January 2004, until which time David Lowden held a dual role.
Sharon Studer was appointed to the board as a non-executive director on 12 November 2003.
Chairman, Vice-Chairman and executive directors remuneration elements Pay mix Executive directors would normally expect to receive approximately 40 per cent of their total potential direct compensation from base salary, and 60 per cent from variable, performance-linked pay bonus plus share options, as illustrated below.
Relative pay mix Tony Cowling Mike Kirkham William Lipner David Lowden 0 20 40 60 80 100 % of total direct compensation Base salary Bonus maximum LTIP maximum n n n Note The expected value of share options has been calculated using a Black-Scholes Multiple of 51 per cent with a discount factor of 17 per cent for the applicable performance conditions.
Volatility has been calculated using weekly share prices over the three-year period prior to January 2004, in line with Mercers standard methodology.
The value of Mike Kirkhams benefits equates to approximately 13 per cent of his base pay and for David Lowden, the benefits value is approximately 9 per cent of base pay.
Tony Cowlings benefits are worth approximately 5 per cent of base pay.
William Lipners see Board changes above and also refer to the Directors report benefits were worth approximately 173 per cent of base pay excluding 401K contributions.
William Lipners contract was due to terminate on 31 December 2003 but it was mutually agreed to extend this date until 31 March 2004 under his existing NFO terms and conditions of employment, with no additional benefits or payments due.
Base pay This is reviewed annually on 1 January and reflects the rate for the specific role.
Base pay increases recognise external pay movements and individual position, and base pay is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
Annual bonus Executive directors and senior executives have annual cash bonus plans that reward growth in profit and operating margin.
Each years results provide the platform for the next years target, encouraging a continuous drive for higher levels of performance.
In 2004 the bonus potential is a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary for Mike Kirkham and William Lipner, 90 per cent for David Lowden, and 75 per cent for Andy Boland.
David Lowdens bonus maximum has increased from 80 per cent to 90 per cent in the light of his new role and increased responsibilities.
The remuneration committee has recently revised the structure of the bonus plan for the groups senior executives, to be effective for 2004.
The financial targets have been broadened and for senior executives, excluding the main board, selective non-financial measures have been included for the first time.
The new plan will be rolled out to managing directors and country heads across the group during 2004 and 2005.
Long-term incentives Long-term incentive arrangements are employed as a performance incentive and as a key retention tool.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the 2001 Executive Share Option Plan, the Equity Participation Plan and, in exceptional circumstances, the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Participation is at the discretion of the remuneration committee, subject to the rules of the plans and within the terms of the agreed remuneration policy.
Mike Kirkham, William Lipner, David Lowden and Andy Boland have the opportunity to be considered for an annual grant of options over shares with a maximum market value, at the time of grant, of two times remuneration.
74 TNS annual report and accounts 2003 Pension Mike Kirkham and David Lowden are members of a money purchase plan governed by an independent trust.
The group contributes 8 per cent of salary for Mike Kirkham and 6 per cent of salary for David Lowden.
The group will contribute 4 per cent of base salary for Andy Boland in 2004.
Tony Cowlings membership of the plan ceased in January 2002.
Under the rules of the 2004 bonus plan, an executive may elect to sacrifice part, or all, of his or her annual bonus and request an enhancement to his or her pension plan in lieu.
In 2003, William Lipner was a member of a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan operated by NFO.
The relevant disclosures of this benefit required under the Companies Act and the Financial Service Authority's Listing Rules are set out below: Age as at 31 December 03 56 1 Accrued pension as at 31 December 02 $112,752 1 Increase in accrued pension in year: 2 Effect of inflation $2,142 Increase in excess of inflation $858 1 Accrued pension as at 31 December 03 $115,752 3 Transfer value of accrued pension as at 31 December 02 $740,690 3 4 Increase in transfer value of accrued pension during year net of director's contributions $106,633 3 Transfer value of accrued pension as at 31 December 03 $847,323 Normal retirement age under the plan is 65 years.
The transfer value less director's contribution of the increase in accrued benefit net of inflation during the period was $6,281.
The above table reflects 12 months pension.
However, William Lipner has only been a director since 17 July 2003.
Notes 1The accrued pension is the annual payment on retirement based on service and salary as at the end of 2003.
2 Inflation is assumed to be 1.9 per cent based on the US Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for December 2003.
3 The transfer value is the present value of the accrued pension and associated benefits as at 31 December 2003.
The transfer value represents a liability of the pension plan and is not a sum due or paid to the director.
4William Lipner made no contributions to the plan during the period.
Benefits Executive directors receive both individual permanent and private health insurance, independent financial and taxation counselling, life assurance and health screening benefits.
There is no company car benefit for any UK-based director.
William Lipner receives benefits that are relevant to the US.
These include 401K plan participation, profit sharing, life assurance, health care, a company car and leisure club membership.
Equity-based incentive plans for employees and executives TNS philosophy is that, wherever feasible, TNS employees worldwide should have the opportunity to participate in equity-based incentive and ownership plans.
This policy helps the group to align the interests of employees from diverse backgrounds and cultures, to retain and attract key senior executives and to incentivise business growth.
In 2003, the remuneration committee approved the use of approximately 13.2 million shares across all the equity-based plans.
Following the acquisition of NFO, key senior executives were granted share options both to retain their key skills within the enlarged group and to incentivise them to deliver high performance during the integration period and beyond.
It is anticipated that approximately 10 million shares will be needed to meet the 2004 long-term incentive plan requirements, and these will be provided through a combination of newly issued and market purchased shares.
The remuneration committee has recommended that executive directors should be encouraged to hold shares in the group and it is planned that this shareholding will be achieved through a policy of retention of a proportion of the shares gained through the options plans.
2001 Executive Share Option Plan ESP Executive directors and selected employees are eligible to participate in the plan at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Annual grants of options may be made over shares worth up to twice the value of an individuals remuneration.
Grant levels are subject to the individuals performance and value to the business.
Options are exercisable between three and ten years after grant, subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: for 50 per cent of each grant, growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS before goodwill charges must exceed inflation plus an average of 4 per cent per annum over three years: and for the remaining 50 per cent, growth in adjusted EPS before goodwill charges must exceed inflation plus an average of 8 per cent per annum over three years.
the sixth sense of business 75 If performance conditions have not been met after three years, re-measurement will take place annually for up to two further years, using the original year as a fixed base.
If performance conditions have not been satisfied at this point, the options will lapse.
Fixed-base re-testing is appropriate for this plan, as it is a key retention tool for the group that demands high levels of performance from its participants.
EPS was chosen as a suitable performance measure, as it provides a meaningful and clear measure of improvement in the companys financial performance and, as it is disclosed in the accounts, it is transparent to shareholders.
The plan was used in 2003 to grant options to eight senior US executives in the groups media intelligence business, as a replacement plan for an existing contractual entitlement that was not fully aligned with the interests of the group as a whole.
Following the NFO acquisition a number of employees were identified who were considered critical for the integration and development of the enlarged group.
These employees were awarded share options under the ESP as a retention and incentive mechanism.
Approximately 4.26 million options in total were granted to 77 employees and these vest under the terms of the ESP, which are outlined above.
2001 Equity Participation Plan EPP Executive directors and selected employees are eligible to participate in the plan at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Under the plan, employees may deposit company shares, which they have previously purchased to a market value not exceeding 50 per cent of the individuals base salary in any one year.
In return, a matching award is granted over shares with a market value on the day of grant equal to half the pre-tax amount that would have been required by the individual to acquire the deposited shares.
A matching award will normally be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of its grant, and is conditional upon the deposited shares being retained and the executive remaining in employment at this time.
The plan has been structured to provide an incentive for executives to build and maintain a shareholding in the company through purchases of shares, thereby creating a clear alignment with shareholders.
As the plan is designed to be highly retentive, and the maximum value of matching awards is 25 per cent of gross base pay, it is not the intention of the remuneration committee to attach performance conditions to the matching award at this stage.
In 2003, 16 high-performing, key employees were invited to participate in the EPP.
13 participants accepted this invitation, depositing an average of 21 per cent of base salary in company shares.
These will be matched after three years, conditional upon continued employment and the retention of their deposited shares as outlined above.
The company intends to use the EPP again in April 2004, as a retention tool for up to 20 high-performing employees.
Worldwide Employee Sharesave Plan WESP The company continues to operate the WESP that was adopted in 1999 and replaced the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS.
The plan is a share option plan in which the employee saves from salary, up to a maximum of 150 per month, over a fixed period of time, for a minimum of three years, and is then given the opportunity to purchase fixed price shares, which may sometimes be at a discount to market value, from his or her fund.
The group uses the WESP to encourage global ownership of shares by employees.
The WESP will be operated again in 2004, when it will be extended to include former NFO employees.
This will require the inclusion of additional countries into the plan.
In 2004, the group will replace the existing WESP operating in the US with the more appropriate and tax-efficient qualified stock purchase plan, the s423 plan.
This will allow US employees to benefit from local tax dispensations and encourage increased participation.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP The companys LTIP is used to make awards of shares to selected employees and executive directors in recruitment or acute retention situations, or other exceptional circumstances, at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Awards under the LTIP may be structured as nil cost options or requiring the payment of an exercise price, which is set at the time of the grant.
Performance conditions, set by the remuneration committee, are normally attached to awards.
For 2000 and 2001 awards, the real compound annual growth of the groups EPS before goodwill charges over three consecutive financial years must exceed at least 6 per cent.
In most cases, the options are only exercisable in full if the rate so calculated is 12 per cent.
For most other awards under the LTIP, vesting will occur at the EPS performance hurdles described for the ESP on page 75 above.
Vesting normally occurs after three years and, depending on the year of grant, there are different performance conditions.
For awards made under the plan prior to 2001, where 6 per cent and 12 per cent performance hurdles are used, re-testing may occur on a rolling three-year basis throughout the life of the plan.
For all awards made under the plan after 2001, where the 4 per cent and 8 per cent performance hurdles are used, fixed-base re-testing may occur after years four and five only.
There is currently only one outstanding award under the LTIP to which no performance measures are attached.
This was described in detail in the 2002 remuneration report and is summarised in the table on page 79.
In 2004, the committee intends to make a one-off award of 180,000 nil cost options to David Lowden, with a view to providing compensation for a complex role that is key to the progress of the group.
The committee views this grant as important for retention 76 TNS annual report and accounts 2003 purposes.
The award will be subject to the EPS performance conditions described for the ESP on page 75 above, except that performance will be measured over a five-year period.
Performance graph This graph illustrates the performance of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and the FTSE 250 index over the past five years.
The company has been a constituent of this index since May 1998 and the directors feel that it is the most meaningful one for comparative purposes.
Value to the end of 2003 of 100 invested in Taylor Nelson Sofres on 31 December 1998, compared with 100 invested in the FTSE Mid 250 Index.
Total shareholder return at 31 December Taylor Nelson Sofres 400 350 FTSE Mid 250 index 300 Source: Datastream 250 200 150 100 50 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Service contracts Directors service contracts reflect current practice and the specific circumstances of the group.
There is typically no fixed term to the contracts except for William Lipner and the remuneration committee has agreed that, going forward, notice periods within any new contracts will be 12 months.
In the event of termination, all contractual obligations would be honoured by the company, subject to mitigation.
If the contract were terminated without giving proper notice, damages for breach of contract would be salary and any other benefits such as pension contribution, health and life assurance but subject to mitigation by the director.
If the contract were terminated with proper notice being given, no damages would be paid.
There are no contractual early termination liabilities for any director.
Contract or Date due for appointment date election re-election Notice period Executive directors Andy Boland January 2004 May 2004 12 months rolling Tony Cowling July 2001 May 2004 12 months rolling 1 Mike Kirkham January 1993 May 2006 24 months rolling 2 William Lipner July 2003 May 2004 9 months rolling 3 David Lowden March 1999 May 2005 12 months rolling Non-executive directors Stephan Buck April 1992 May 2005 Not applicable Neil Cross December 1996 May 2005 Not applicable Rob Rowley September 2002 May 2005 Not applicable Rmy Sautter November 2002 May 2005 Not applicable Sharon Studer November 2003 May 2004 Not applicable Notes 1 The remuneration committee is in the process of finalising an updated contract for Mike Kirkham, which will reduce his current notice period of 24 months to 12 months with effect from 1 January 2005, in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Historically, 24 months notice was considered appropriate based on his performance, position and the date of his original contract.
2 William Lipner received a one-off payment in 2003 of $3.7 million in settlement of an existing change of control liability under his NFO contract.
His contract was extended in December 2003 but is due to terminate on 31 March 2004.
His NFO terms and conditions of employment include a 9-month termination payment.
3With effect from 4 March 2004, David Lowdens notice period in the event of change of control was reduced from 24 months to 12 months.
Historically, 24 months was negotiated at the start of his contract, and was considered appropriate because of volatility within the market research sector.
the sixth sense of business 77 Value Directors interests in shares of the group 31 December 2002 31 December 2003 or date of appointment Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Executive directors Andy Boland Tony Cowling 2,253,150 2,815,820 690,130 Mike Kirkham 342,836 194,654 William Lipner David Lowden 50,000 25,000 Non-executive directors Stephan Buck 63,000 63,000 Neil Cross 20,000 20,000 Rob Rowley 5,000 Rmy Sautter 5,000 Sharon Studer The following pages, together with the information relating to William Lipners pension on page 75 comprise the audited part of the remuneration report.
He has been retained as a consultant to the group for a period of three years from 1 November 2001, in which capacity he receives payments of approximately 300,000 per annum.
Notes 1 Andy Boland was appointed to the board on 12 January 2004.
2William Lipner was appointed to the board on 17 July 2003.
He received matching contributions under the 401K plan 12 months contributions are reflected above.
For notes on pension entitlement see Benefits section of remuneration report.
279,000 of William Lipners benefits reflect a scheduled annual payment of $465,000 payable from the age of 60 to 82, or earlier death.
This is funded by a split dollar life insurance policy, to which the company is scheduled to pay annual premiums refundable when William Lipner reaches age 82 or earlier death of $461,000 until he reaches 65 years of age.
3David Lowden reflects his new salary as Chief Operating Officer from 1 October 2003.
4 Fees to Stephan Buck include 27,840 as payment for consulting services to the group.
5 Jacques-Henri David retired from the board on 31 January 2003.
6 Nick Hodges retired from the board on 31 December 2002.
7 Rob Rowley was appointed to the board on 1 September 2002.
8 Rmy Sautter was appointed to the board on 12 November 2002.
9 Sharon Studer was appointed to the board on 12 November 2003.
2 The market value of the shares on the date of exercise was 169.5p.
3 The market value of the shares on the date of exercise was 220.5p.
4 Options granted under the SRSOS and the WESP and matching shares under the EPP are not subject to any performance conditions.
5 Options granted under the ESP are subject to the following performance conditions: For 50 per cent of the award to vest, the real compound annual growth of the groups adjusted EPS before goodwill charges, over three consecutive financial years must exceed at least 4 per cent.
The options are only exercisable in full if the rate so calculated is 8 per cent.
Should the exercise conditions not be met, re-testing may occur annually for up to two years, from the original fixed base year.
6 Options granted under the LTIP are subject to the following performance conditions: For 2000 and 2001 the real compound annual growth of the groups adjusted EPS before goodwill charges, over three consecutive financial years must exceed at least 6 per cent.
Should the exercise conditions not be met, re-testing may occur on a rolling three-year basis throughout the life of the plan.
For all other awards excluding point 7 below, the conditions outlined under note 5 above apply.
7 Options over 116,000 shares were granted for nil consideration to Tony Cowling under the LTIP.
No performance conditions were attached to this award, as it represented the final element of compensation payable to him for the change in his role in June 2001.
8 The closing market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2003 was 208.0p and the range during the year was 101.5p to 226.75p.
Ian Portal Company Secretary 8 March 2004 the sixth sense of business 79
