12 TESCO PLC report of the directors on remuneration THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration determined by verication to other major FTSE 100 Committee is governed by formal Terms of Reference agreed companies and other large retailers.
by the Board and is composed entirely of independent Annual bonuses based on achieving stretching EPS Non-executive Directors.
No member of the Remuneration growth targets and specic corporate objectives.
Annual Committee has any personal financial interest other than as bonuses are paid in shares.
On award, the Executive can a shareholder in the matters to be decided and no day-to-day elect to defer receipt of the shares for a further two involvement in running the business of Tesco.
years, which is encouraged with additional matching The remuneration packages, including contract periods, share awards.
Further details are provided below.
of Executive Directors are determined by the Remuneration Longer-term bonus based on a combination of relative Committee the Committee.
The Committee comprised total shareholder return, and the achievement of Mr C L Allen Chairman of the Committee, Dr H Einsmann stretching EPS growth targets and specic corporate appointed June 2002, Mr G F Pimlott and Mr R F Chase objectives.
Longer-term bonuses are paid in shares, which appointed July 2002.
Mr J W Melbourn retired from must be held for a further four years.
Executive Directors the Committee during the year.
The Committee met on are encouraged to hold shares for longer than four years six occasions during the year.
with additional matching share awards.
Further details Mr R S Ager, an Executive Director of the Group, are provided below.
is Secretary to the Committee and attends the meetings.
Share options are granted to Executive Directors at Mr J A Gardiner, Non-executive Chairman of the Group, market value and can only be exercised if EPS growth and Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive of the Group, both attend exceeds RPI plus 9% over any three years from grant.
the meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
However, Directors do not attend the meetings when their own Executive Directors are required to build and hold a remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee is supported shareholding with a value at least equal to their basic by Mrs C M Chapman, Human Resources Director of salary: full participation in the Executive Incentive Tesco Stores Ltd and has appointed Deloitte & Touche as Scheme is conditional upon meeting this target.
Deloitte & Touche also The Committee also ensures that the remuneration provided advisory services in respect of VAT, PAYE, NIC relationship between the Main Board and Senior Executives and international taxation to the Group during the year.
of the company below this level is appropriate.
In particular, any exceptional salary arrangements or award of share options DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Committee for Senior Executives are to be advised to the Committee.
applied the following remuneration policy to all Executive Directors during the year.
The Committee intends that the TOTAL REMUNERATION The total remuneration levels of remuneration of all Executive Directors will continue to Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually by the be determined on these principles but will be subject to Committee, having regard to competitive market practice a review by the Committee in the light of any legislative, in the retail sector and in the context of the FTSE 100 regulatory and or market practice changes.
companies, which are of a comparable size to Tesco.
As part Business success in a retail environment depends on the of the review process, the Committee has access to, and talents of the key team, but outstanding success comes from makes use of, external independent remuneration surveys.
Building and retaining that team at senior levels The total remuneration package of Executive Directors within Tesco is vital to success.
The remuneration strategy comprises the following elements: for Executive Directors has been tailored to emphasise base salary: the delivery of year-on-year earnings growth by providing short and long-term performance-related share awards executives with a significant proportion of performancevia the Executive Incentive Scheme: related remuneration delivered in Tesco shares over extended timescales.
performance-related share options awards To meet the business objectives of strong financial via the Executive Share Option Scheme: progression and improvements in shareholder returns, benets which comprise car benets, life assurance, the policy is to pay: disability and health insurance : and Basic salaries based on the responsibilities, skills and pensions.
experience of the individual against a benchmark TESCO PLC 13 In addition to the above elements of remuneration, Executive EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE SCHEME The company operates Directors who have completed one years service are also a performance-related incentive scheme designed to provide eligible to participate in the companys all-employee savingsa competitive level of reward.
Awards under the scheme are related share option scheme SAYE, profit sharing scheme delivered in shares to further align the interests of Executive and the share incentive plan BAYE on the same terms as Directors and shareholders.
The Committee sets performance targets annually The Committee considers that a high proportion of for the incentive scheme for each of the criteria noted total remuneration should be performance-related and at below, confirms achievement of performance and awards risk of forfeiture.
In addition, performance-related reward to be made under the scheme and directs the general should be delivered in shares to closely align the interests of administration of the scheme.
The Executive Committee shareholders and executives.
In all cases, base salary currently has adopted a policy of extending executive incentive constitutes approximately one-third of the total annual cash schemes to a wider body of senior executives within and share incentive opportunity for Executive Directors.
the Group using similar measures.
In determining the balance between the xed and variable Long-term share bonuses are awarded annually for elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages, each of the Executive Directors, the maximum long-term the Committee has regard to market practice.
share bonus is equivalent to 75% of salary.
The long-term All awards made to Executive Directors under the bonus is based on a combination of the following Executive Incentive Scheme and all options granted under the performance conditions: Executive Share Option Scheme are subject to the satisfaction 1 The achievement of targets set each year for growth of performance conditions, which are explained below.
The in earnings per share over that financial year is the Committee considers that the mix of performance conditions basis for 77% of the award.
Earnings per share has best supports the Groups business strategy and provides a set been chosen to reect the core focus of the Group of broad-based and robust measures of managements effort on continuous and sustainable earnings growth.
and success in creating shareholder value.
2 An assessment of total shareholder return is the basis Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors are likely for 15% of the award.
The total shareholder return share to be invited to become non-executive directors of other price growth and dividend performance of the company companies and that such non-executive duties can broaden at the end of the year, taking into account performance experience and knowledge, which will benefit Tesco.
Therefore, over the previous three and five years, is compared to Executive Directors are, subject to approval by the Board, the total shareholder return of a selected peer group allowed to accept non-executive appointments and retain of UK and International companies, comprising Ahold, the fees received, provided that these appointments are Carrefour, Metro, Safeway plc UK, Safeway Inc.
US, not likely to lead to conicts of interest.
Total shareholder return has been chosen as it is a clear indicator of the value created COMPLIANCE The Committee is constituted and operated for shareholders.
The Committee considers a comparator throughout the period in accordance with the principles group comprising large international food retailers as the outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services most appropriate basis for assessing relative performance.
Authority derived from Schedule A of the Combined Code.
3 An assessment of the progress towards the achievement In framing the remuneration policy, full consideration has been of specic strategic corporate goals is the basis for 8% given to the best practice provisions set out in Schedule B, of the award.
annexed to the Listing Rules.
The auditors report set out on page 23, covers the disclosures referred to in this report that Shares awarded have to be held for a period of four years, are specified for audit by the Financial Services Authority.
conditional upon continuous service with the company.
The This report also complies with disclosures required by the share equivalent of dividends, which would have been paid on Director Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Details of the shares, is added to the award during the deferral period.
Directors emoluments and interests, including executive and Short-term share bonuses are awarded annually to each savings-related share options, are set out on pages 15 to 21. of the Executive Directors, the maximum short-term bonus The following summarises the remuneration packages payable is equivalent to 75% of salary.
The bonus is based for Executive Directors.
Copies of the Executive Directors on a combination of the following performance conditions: contracts of employment are available for inspection by shareholders as required.
14 TESCO PLC report of the directors on remuneration continued 1 The achievement of targets set each year for growth in in Tesco PLC at the end of a three or five-year period at earnings per share over the relevant financial year is the a discount of up to 20% of the market value.
There are basis for 77% of the award.
no performance conditions attached to SAYE options.
2 An assessment of achievement against specic strategic PROFIT SHARING The Group operates a UK profit sharing corporate goals is the basis for 23% of the award.
scheme for the benefit of employees, including Executive The bonus can be augmented by 50%, if the participants Directors.
Since March 2002, a new approved scheme Shares elect for the trustees of the scheme to retain the shares in Success has operated.
This scheme replaced the previous awarded for a minimum period of two years, conditional profit sharing arrangements following the Governments upon continuous service with the company.
The share decision to discontinue such schemes and is available to equivalent of dividends, which would have been paid on employees with at least one years service at the Groups year the shares, is added to the award during the deferral period.
Shares in the company are allocated to participants in The Executive Directors may choose to further extend the scheme on a pro-rata basis to base salary earned up to the holding period for both the short and long-term shares Inland Revenue approved limits currently 3,000 per annum.
by a further three years in each case.
During this holding The amount of profit allocated to the scheme is determined period, the shares held are increased by 12.5% at the by the Board, taking account of company performance.
beginning of each year, based on the scheme shares held and are conditional upon continuous employment with BUY-AS-YOU-EARN BAYE Since January 2002, the Group the company.
This holding period may be extended subject has operated an Inland Revenue approved share investment to personal shareholding targets set by the Committee, plan BAYE for the benefit of employees including Executive equivalent to shares to the value of one times salary, being Directors.
Under this scheme, employees save four-weekly to met by the Executive Directors.
buy shares at market value in Tesco PLC.
In respect of 2002 03, the awards were long-term 68% and short-term 72% of salary for each Executive Director.
PENSIONS Executive Directors are members of the Tesco Mr D E Reid was awarded a special bonus of 400,000 in PLC Pension Scheme which provides a pension of up to respect of the development of the Groups international two-thirds of base salary on retirement, normally at the age business.
This amount has been sacrificed in return for of 60, dependent upon service.
The scheme also provides pension augmentation.
for dependants pensions and lump sums on death in service.
In addition to providing the opportunity to earn greater The scheme is a dened benefit pension scheme, which is rewards for superior performance, the Executive Incentive approved by the Inland Revenue.
Scheme further aligns the interests of shareholders and Executive Directors by helping them to build up a SERVICE AGREEMENTS Sir Terry Leahy, Mr D E Reid, Mr R S shareholding in Tesco.
Ager, Mr P A Clarke, Mr J Gildersleeve, Mr A T Higginson, Mr T J R Mason and Mr D T Potts have service agreements dated SHARE OPTIONS Executive Directors are included in 3 April 2000 with entitlement to notice of 24 months by the Executive Share Option schemes ESOS.
Executive options company and 12 months notice by the Executive.
All the granted since 1995 may only be exercised subject to the Executive Directors were appointed before 1 March 2001. achievement of earnings per share growth of at least RPI If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other plus 6% over three years.
For future share option grants, the than pursuant to the notice provisions in the service contract exercise condition will be earnings per share growth of at or by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance least RPI plus 9% over three years.
The Committee chose or conduct, the company will pay, by way of liquidated to increase the performance hurdle for future option grants damages, a sum equal to two times the aggregate of current in the light of recent changes in FTSE 100 market practice.
base salary and the average of the awards made under the Executive Incentive Scheme for the previous two years.
SAVE-AS-YOU-EARN SAYE Since 1981, the Group has No account will be taken of pension or any other benefit operated an Inland Revenue approved savings-related share or emolument.
The termination payment is subject to the option scheme SAYE for the benefit of employees including Executive Director entering into restrictive covenants to apply Executive Directors.
for a 12 month period after such termination so as to protect Under this scheme, employees save on a four-weekly the goodwill of the business.
basis via a bank building society with an option to buy shares TESCO PLC 15 If the termination occurs within two years of retirement, PERFORMANCE GRAPH The Groups total shareholder the termination payment would be reduced accordingly.
return performance i. e. share price movements plus dividends In the event of a change of control, an Executive Director reinvested over the last five financial years relative to the may terminate the service agreement by providing at least FTSE 100 index of companies is set out below.
This index 30 days notice within three months of such change of control, has been selected to provide an established and broad-based and in so doing, the company will pay a termination payment comparator group of retail and non-retail companies of as outlined above.
similar scale to Tesco, against which the Groups TSR The Committee has agreed that in future, new performance can be measured.
appointments of Executive Directors will normally be based on a notice period of 12 months.
The Committee reserves the right to vary this period for the initial period of appointment.
150 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Executive Committee Tesco after considering external market research.
100 Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment, FTSE and their appointment can be terminated by either party without notice.
Each appointment is subject to review every 50 three years.
Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee Feb 98 Feb 99 Feb 00 Feb 01 Feb 02 Feb 03 plus an additional sum in respect of committee membership.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR is the notional return from a stock or index based To reect their additional responsibilities, supplementary fees on share price movements and declared dividends are also paid to Non-executives who chair committees and to the senior Non-executive Director.
Mr J A Gardiner has the benefit of the use of a company car.
Tables 1 to 6 are audited information.
The performance criteria set out on pages 13 and 14 is audited information.
16 TESCO PLC report of the directors on remuneration continued TABLE 2 Gains made on share options Number of shares at exercise price pence Value realisable Price at exercise 2003 2002 72.3 72.3 70.0 81.0 90.3 Total pence 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy 62,211 51,150 417,144 471,372 398,523 1,400,400 250.00 2,422 Mr D E Reid Mr R S Ager Mr P A Clarke 100 Mr J Gildersleeve Mr A T Higginson Mr T J R Mason 40 Mr D T Potts Date of grant 29.10.1995 27.05.1996 10.06.1997 12.08.1997 27.04.1998 The value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the fair market value at exercise and the exercise price of the options, although the shares may have been retained.
All options were exercised on the same date when the market share price was 250.00p.
All of the options at 72.3p were exercised at 61.7p and 25% of the options at 70.0p and 81.0p were exercised at 59.7p and 69.0p respectively, as targets related to growth in earnings per share in accordance with ABI guidelines have been achieved.
The market share price at 22 February 2003 was 168.00p.
The share price during the 52 weeks to 22 February 2003 ranged from 163.00p to 266.25p.
The performance criteria for share options set out on page 14 is audited information.
TABLE 3 Pension details of the Directors Transfer Transfer Increase Transfer value value Increase Total Increase in accrued value of total of total decrease accrued in accrued pension of previous accrued accrued in transfer Age at Years of pension at pension during the column at pension at pension at value less 22 February company 22 February during the year net of 22 February 23 February 22 February directors 2003 service 2003 a year ination 2003 2002 2003 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy b 47 24 383 52 46 367 3,208 2,554 654 Mr D E Reid c 56 18 371 44 39 1,271 4,701 5,273 572 Mr R S Ager 57 17 257 31 27 415 3,450 3,910 460 Mr P A Clarke 42 28 169 31 29 159 1,147 941 206 Mr J Gildersleeve 58 38 370 36 31 510 5,297 6,113 816 Mr A T Higginson d 45 5 87 23 22 139 595 545 50 Mr T J R Mason 45 21 197 27 24 149 1,578 1,204 374 Mr D T Potts 45 30 188 34 31 200 1,461 1,197 264 a The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 22 February 2003. b Sir Terry Leahy is entitled to retire at any age from 57 to 60 inclusive with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
Part of his pension may be provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
c During the year, Mr D E Reid sacrificed 400,000 of a bonus payment in return for pension augmentation.
1 This augmentation allows Mr D E Reid to retire from age 58 2 with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
d Part of Mr A T Higginsons benets, in respect of pensionable earnings in excess of the earnings limit imposed by the Finance Act 1989, are provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
b Date of expiry is seven years from date exercisable, with the exception of the 98.3p and 151.7p options which expire four years from date exercisable.
c Options granted in the year.
The subscription price for options granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme was 159.0p and the options mature in either 2006 three-year scheme or 2008 five-year scheme.
The shares relating to options exercised in the year were all retained.
Vesting prices on 11 May 2002 and on 12 February 2003 were 260.75p and 170.25p respectively.
Shares awarded include dividends, taken in the form of shares and augmentation.
Between 22 February 2003 and 7 April 2003, 1,152 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Partnership Share Plan BAYE operated by the Group.
The ordinary shares include shares held as part of incentive plans shown in table 6.
