Remuneration Report Compliance The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Members of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2003 were Messrs. Ariko and McMonigall.
Governing Principles The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and approving general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for executive officers.
The committee also administers incentive compensation plans.
Consistent with the policies of the Combined Code, the company's policy for directors' remuneration for 2003 and subsequent financial years is that packages are intended to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre needed to achieve the company's growth program but not detract from the goals of good corporate governance.
Remuneration elsewhere within the company is taken into account when determining executive compensation.
The company's highest paid employee earns a base salary approximately three times the base salary of the average employee.
The main elements of executive pay packages historically and for the expected future are: Base salary and benefits - Each senior executive's basic salary is determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and the strategies of the company.
Employment related benefits principally the provision of a company car are also provided where appropriate.
In accordance with the company's strategies and the significant equity interests of the executive directors in the company, directors' salaries have not been adjusted during the previous four years, with the exception of the Chief Financial Officer who received a small raise during 2003 when he joined the board to align his base salary with industry norms.
Bonuses - In accordance with common practice amongst the company's peers, the company has performance related bonus plans for a limited number of executive directors.
Bonuses are only paid based on achievement of pre-agreed revenue and profit targets.
Share options - The company believes that share ownership by directors and staff aligns their personal interests with those of shareholders.
Options form the core element of the company's performance program, and are granted in small amounts from time to time based on an individual's exceptional performance and significant and continuing contribution to performance of the company.
Unlike many technology companies, the company does not grant large numbers of options at the commencement of employment, but rather specifically recognizes individuals from time to time on a performance basis.
Share options are always issued at market value.
The maximum number of share options the company is permitted to grant is up to 10% of the outstanding shares.
The committee has access to professional advice from outside advisors should it require assistance, but to date has not sought such advice as there has been no material change in any director's remuneration.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Directors' remuneration is considered to be highly incentive-based given the executive directors' significant equity holdings in the company and the performance-based bonus plans.
Service Contracts All executive directors have service contracts and all non-executive directors have appointment letters.
All agreements provide for notice of six months or less, and all permit garden leave up to the length of the notice period.
No other amounts are payable on termination.
All terms of appointment are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the requirement to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of the previous election.
Dr. Lynch's employment agreement, dated July 9, 1998, provides for his employment as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, at a salary of 100,000 per annum.
Mr. Gaunt's employment agreement, dated July 9, 1998, provides for his employment as our Technical Director and Chief Technology Officer, at a salary of 90,000 per annum.
Both Dr. Lynch and Mr. Gaunt have also entered into part-time employment agreements with Neurodynamics Limited, a related party.
Their Autonomy service agreements limit the total monthly working time spent providing services to Neurodynamics to a maximum of one quarter of each of their total monthly working time, and each have spent an immaterial amount of time working for Neurodynamics as non-executive directors.
In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, Dr. Lynch may be entitled to a performance bonus for 2004.
Mr. Hussain's employment agreement, dated June 27, 2001, provides for his employment as Chief Financial Officer, at a salary of 120,000 per annum, which has been raised to 135,000 per annum by the Remuneration Committee of the board.
Each are also entitled to current benefits generally made available to all employees and any fees or remuneration he is entitled to as a director of Autonomy.
Each of these agreements has no fixed term and can be terminated by either party on six months notice, or payment of six months salary in lieu of notice.
For a fixed period following the termination of employment, each of Dr. Lynch and Messrs. Gaunt and Hussain are prohibited from soliciting our clients, customers and employees and from competing with us in a similar geographic area.
38 Remuneration Report Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall, Opzoomer and Perle serve as our directors under appointment letters dated January 7, 2000, July 2, 1998, June 1, 2003 and February 23, 2000, respectively.
Under these letters, Messrs. Ariko and Opzoomer are each paid an annual fee of $25,000, and Apax Partners & Co. Ventures Ltd. on behalf of Mr. McMonigall, is paid an annual fee of 10,000 for his services as a director.
Either party to each of these letters may terminate the appointment upon three months notice, or payment of three months' fees in lieu of notice.
Performance Graph The graph below sets forth the change in the total shareholder return for the last two years of a holding of the company's shares against the corresponding change in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE TechMark Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index.
This index was selected as it represents a broad equity market index in which the company and similar companies are constituent members.
AUDITED REMUNERATION INFORMATION Directors' Remuneration The following table sets forth for the year ended December 31, 2003, the elements of each director's remuneration package.
Directors do not have pension, retirement or similar entitlements.
Mr. Hussain is eligible for a bonus of up to 5,000 per calendar quarter for performance against targets.
2 Messrs. Ariko and Opzoomer were paid in U. S. dollars, and the amounts have been translated into sterling in the above table.
3 For Mr. Opzoomer, from June 1, 2003, the date he joined the Board.
Non-executive directors are reimbursed for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending the meetings of our board of directors and committees thereof.
The sole reason for the exercise was that these options were granted by Dr. Lynch to Mr. Gaunt when Autonomy was founded in 1996, and would have lapsed in December 2003 if not exercised.
Immediately following the exercise of these options, Mr. Gaunt sold ordinary shares to cover his tax liabilities associated with the option exercise.
No director had any non-beneficial interests in the shares of the company at the end of the year.
There has been no change in the directors' interests between December 31, 2003 and the date of these accounts.
Details of share options granted on a performance basis and held by executive directors are set out below.
No executive directors' share options were cancelled or lapsed during the year.
2 Exercisable period July 30, 2002 to July 29, 2009 3 Exercisable period November 1, 2002 to October 31, 2009 4 Exercisable period March 15, 2003 to March 14, 2010 5 Exercisable period May 2, 2003 to May 1, 2010 6 Exercisable period July 11, 2003 to July 10, 2010 7 Exercisable period July 19, 2003 to July 18, 2010 8 Exercisable period August 6, 2004 to February 6, 2010 9 Exercisable period May 21, 2004 to November 21, 2010 40 Remuneration Report As of the date of this report, no non-executive directors held share options.
The non-executive directors have voluntarily agreed to cancel their share options to re-affirm their independence.
These share options were granted in 2000 in common with industry practice at the time.
The company does not intend to grant further options to our non-executive directors.
The fair market value of the company's ordinary shares as quoted on the London Stock Exchange on December 31, 2003 was 2.39 per ordinary share, and the range during the year ended December 31, 2003 was from 1.28 to 2.56.
Long-term incentive plans The group does not maintain any long term incentive plans.
Pension entitlements Directors do not have pension, retirement or similar entitlements.
By order of the board, Andrew M Kanter Company Secretary April 14, 2004 Remuneration Report 41
