Policy on remuneration of executive directors Aligning share owner interests total shareholder and senior executives return TSR WPPs share-based long-term incentive plans, the Performance The following policy applies for the financial year 2004 Share Plan PSP and the Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan and, subject to review, for future years.
The remuneration LEAP, use TSR as the basis for performance measurement.
of executive directors and senior executives of the Groups TSR represents the change in share price, together with the operating companies and the parent company is reviewed value of reinvested dividends, over the performance period.
each year by the committee.
The Compensation committee continues to believe that The policy is designed to attract, retain and the growth in TSR relative to a group of key comparators is motivate the best available talent, so that the Group can the most appropriate measure for determining performancemeet client and share owner objectives.
In particular, based rewards for Group executives, as it most closely aligns the committee has regard to the levels of compensation reward with the delivery of share owner value.
Under Renewed in the Group and specic businesses with which the LEAP described in detail on page 92, the committee has Group companies compete and is also sensitive to further improved the operation of a TSR based performance compensation levels in the wider business community.
measure through the introduction of Pro-Rata TSR.
For all With this in mind the committee places importance incentive plans, TSR is calculated using external data sources, on remuneration practices in the global communications such as DataStream or Bloomberg and using an appropriate services sector, particularly in the US and the UK and and recognised methodology.
also pays close attention to the structure of remuneration, and the proportion which is performance-related, both Principles governing long-term incentives on a short and long-term basis.
Long-term incentives, including stock awards, comprise a significant element of total remuneration for senior Principles of remuneration executives in the parent company and each operating To implement the Companys policy, executive company.
During 2003, approximately 1,500 of those remuneration is designed to be consistent with the executives participated in some form of performancefollowing principles: related long-term incentive program.
total remuneration opportunities are designed to The committee reviews each year the operation be fully competitive in the relevant market: of the Groups long-term incentive programs to ensure all remuneration packages have a very significant that the performance measures and levels of reward are performance-related variable element: appropriate and competitive.
incentives are based on meeting specic, measurable Any long-term incentive program in which an and stretching performance objectives: executive director is entitled to participate is subject the performance objectives which are set for incentives to performance conditions.
are designed to align executive rewards with the creation of value for our share owners see exhibit on TSR below : the total remuneration program includes significant opportunities to acquire WPP stock, consistent with building a strong ownership culture.
The Company believes that a significant proportion of remuneration for executive directors and senior executives should be delivered through performancerelated elements, such as the annual bonus awards and share-based incentive awards, as referred to below.
For target performance the committee would expect at least 60% of an executive directors remuneration to be performance-related.
The Company has required senior executives to achieve stock ownership goals for many years, as a result of which awards of stock options vary depending on whether individuals achieve and maintain specic levels of ownership of WPP stock.
