CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Risk Identification and Evaluation An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group was introduced in 2002 and was extended to the new businesses acquired following the successful integration of MIM in June 2003.
The output of the process has been reviewed by the Company and Commodity Business Unit Audit Committees on behalf of the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group risk management policy is value driven and has the stated objective of developing, implementing and maintaining a risk management programme to assist the Group in meeting all of its goals.
The process is thorough and robust and is an essential element of the Groups approach to business planning.
Each commodity business unit and the head office carries out a comprehensive annual risk review and updates its risk register.
Objectives in the business plan are aligned with risks and a summary of the key risks, related internal controls, accountabilities and further mitigating actions that are planned is included in the business plan that is reviewed and approved by the Board.
Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk profile and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported to the Executive Committee and the Board in the monthly management reports.
Information and Financial Reporting Systems Financial reporting to the Executive Committee and the Board is continuously modified and enhanced to cater for changing circumstances.
The Groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and a three-year rolling plan.
The Board reviews and approves the budget and plan.
Plans and budgets are prepared on the basis of consistent economic assumptions determined by the Group Finance Function.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting of key performance indicators, updated forecasts for the year together with information on the key risk areas.
Comprehensive monthly management reports on a divisional and consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for the year, are prepared and presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Controller.
Detailed consolidated management accounts, together with an executive summary from the Chief Executive, are circulated to all Directors on a monthly basis.
Investment Appraisal A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals are submitted to the Executive Committee in accordance with Board delegated authority limits.
A standardised format is used that includes a detailed calculation of return on equity.
Economic assumptions are consistent with those included in management reports and budgets and are agreed with Group Finance.
Reviews are carried out after the project is complete, and for some projects, during the construction period, to monitor progress against plan: major overruns are investigated.
Commercial, legal and financial due diligence work, using outside consultants, is undertaken in respect of acquisitions as appropriate.
Treasury Committee A Treasury Committee has been established as a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
Its membership consists of the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
All meetings are held outside the UK.
The committee recommends group policy, which is agreed by the Board, relating to all aspects of funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and it co-ordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and other financial institutions.
The committee monitors all significant treasury activities undertaken by group companies and ensures compliance with group policy.
A monthly report details the Group cash debt position, review of bank covenants, exposures and hedging and is circulated to the Executive Committee.
86 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Internal Audit The Group-wide internal audit function is co-sourced with internal resources being supplemented by services provided as required by KPMG as an outsourced service provider.
Risk-based internal audit plans, prepared on an annual basis, are approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit is an important element of the overall process by which the Executive Committee and the Board obtains the assurance it requires that risks are being properly identified, managed and controlled.
Fraud Management There is a formal Group policy relating to fraud management and investigation and, in line with best practice, this includes whistleblowing procedures.
Audit Committees The Companys Audit Committee is supported and assisted in its work by separate Audit Committees for each Commodity Business Unit in line with the decentralised commodity unit business model.
The Business Unit Audit Committees are independent of the executive management of the Business Unit and are chaired by suitably qualified individuals independent of Xstrata.
The terms of reference of these committees follow those of the Companys Audit Committee from which they obtain their delegated authority.
Meeting dates precede those of the Companys Audit Committee and reports on their deliberations and findings are presented to the Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee.
iii Review of effectiveness of system of internal control The Board delegates its responsibility for the review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control to the Audit Committee which is supported in its work by the commodity business unit Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are identified and assessed and the effectiveness of the system of internal control by considering the regular reports from management on key risks, mitigating actions and internal controls, management representations and assertions and the reports on risk management and internal control from Internal Audit, the External Auditors and other assurance providers such as Health Safety and Environmental management.
The directors believe that the Groups system of internal control provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control through the monitoring process set out above and are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal control for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 87 REMUNERATION REPORT Information not Subject to Audit Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its other members are David Rough and Paul Hazen, all of whom are non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the structure of remuneration for executive directors on an ongoing basis and has responsibility for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages for executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee, including salaries, pension rights, bonuses, long-term incentives and any compensation payments.
The Committee met twice during the year at which meetings all members of the Committee were present.
The Chairman will continue to ensure that Xstrata plc the Group maintains contact, as required, with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
The purpose and function of the Committee in future will not differ materially from this year.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman will be considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and will not be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairmans remuneration will be determined by the Remuneration Committee while the Chairman is absent.
The Chief Executive also attends the Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its considerations, except when issues relating to his own remuneration are discussed.
The Group provides the Remuneration Committee with national and international pay data collected from external survey providers.
During the year, no other persons provided advice or services to the Remuneration Committee that materially assisted the Remuneration Committee in their consideration of any such matter and no advisers were appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration policy Xstratas remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate the highly talented individuals needed to deliver the business strategy and to maximise shareholder wealth creation.
The policy for 2003 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years, will be framed around the following principles for executive directors: remuneration arrangements will be designed to support the business strategy and to align with the interests of Xstratas shareholders: total reward levels will be set at appropriate levels to reflect the competitive global market in which Xstrata operates with the intention of positioning within the top quartile for outstanding performance: a high proportion of the remuneration should be at risk with performance related remuneration making up at least 50% of the total potential remuneration for Executive Committee members: and performance-related payments will be subject to the satisfaction of demanding and stretching performance targets over the short and long-term.
These performance targets will be set in the context of the prospects of the Group, the prevailing economic environment in which it operates, and the relative performance of comparator companies.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the business environment and in remuneration practices.
Consequently, the remuneration policy for subsequent years will be reviewed in the light of matters such as changes to corporate governance best practice or changes to accounting, legislation or business practices among peer group mining companies to ensure that the policy continues to provide Xstrata with a competitive reward strategy and in doing so will take into account the provisions in Schedule A to the Combined Code on the design of performance-related remuneration, being sensitive to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
88 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Elements of remuneration The total remuneration package for executive directors comprises of the following principal elements: base salary: annual bonus plan the Bonus Plan : participation in long-term incentive arrangements the LTIP : subsisting rights under the Xstrata AG shares schemes and individual arrangements as detailed below : pension: and other benefits including housing allowance where essential for the performance of the duties, permanent health, life and private medical insurance.
Base salary The base salary of the executive directors is subject to annual review by the Remuneration Committee.
The policy will generally aim to pay top quartile packages when measured against a peer group of global mining companies and the FTSE100.
The Remuneration Committee considers external pay data to ensure that the levels of remuneration remain competitive and appropriate in the light of the Groups policy and the Remuneration Committee is responsible for ensuring that the positioning of the Groups remuneration relative to its peers does not result in increases in remuneration without a corresponding increase in performance.
When setting base salaries, the Committee also considers the impact on pension consequences and associated costs.
Santiago Zaldumbide has a professional services agreement with Asturiana dated 29 January 1998 to act as Chairman and Chief Executive of Asturiana.
The agreement is in force until 28 February 2007 previously 29 January 2007 and continues thereafter indefinitely unless terminated by Asturiana giving six months notice to that effect provided that such notice may not be given to result in his employment terminating before 28 February 2007.
Up until 31 December 2002, Santiago Zaldumbide was entitled to a total fee for the term of his agreement of EUR3,005,060 payable at a rate of EUR601,012 per annum less any fees received from certain specified external directorships.
This fixed contract predates the acquisition of Asturiana.
With effect from January 2003, the Remuneration Committee has concluded and has agreed with Santiago Zaldumbide that his annual fee should be subject to review in line with the other executive directors.
On termination of the agreement, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to receive a sum from the redemption of an insurance policy acquired by Asturiana for a premium of EUR3,005,060, including any with profits bonus payable under the policy less the compensation received by him during the term of the agreement.
This part of the agreement is not affected by the review.
On termination of the agreement by expiry of the fixed term, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to receive the capital redemption value of the policy, including the with profit bonus element, minus aforementioned amount of EUR3,005,060 which he will already have received.
Santiago Zaldumbides entitlements under the insurance policy are in lieu of his receiving pension benefits.
Santiago Zaldumbides appointment as Director of Xstrata is on an indefinite basis subject to the existence of the agreement between Santiago Zaldumbide and Asturiana.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive no additional remuneration for his position as director of the Group but is eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan and the LTIP.
Bonus Plan Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan.
The Bonus Plan focuses on the achievement of annual objectives, which align the short-term financial performance of the Group with the creation of shareholder value.
The bonus pool available for distribution to participants in the Bonus Plan will be calculated by reference to a fixed proportion of the net profits of the Group during the relevant financial year.
This proportion has been determined by the Remuneration Committee as 1% if the return on equity is less than 10%, 1.25% if the return on equity is 10% to 15% and 1.5% if the return on equity is greater than 15% for the year to 31 December 2004 and has been communicated to participants.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 89 REMUNERATION REPORT The payment of any bonus under the Bonus Plan is subject to a hurdle rate for the current financial year and the year ending 31 December 2004 it will be set such that the Groups return on equity will be at least equal to the Groups average cost of borrowing.
If this hurdle is not reached, the bonus pool will be zero.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to vary the basis of calculation and the performance targets for subsequent years.
The Remuneration Committee also retains the discretion to vary the size of the bonus pool if warranted by special circumstances.
The amount of the bonus pool that is distributed in any one year, and the relative proportions payable to each participant or, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, to a trust for his benefit will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The amount of bonus payable under the Bonus Plan that any one participant is eligible to receive in cash in respect of any one year will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary.
Any amount in excess of the limit that would otherwise be payable to an individual in any one year under the Bonus Plan will be deferred for a period of one year and is conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
Under the rules of the Bonus Plan, deferred amounts may, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, be payable in the form of cash or ordinary shares having an equivalent value at the date the bonus is determined and will be paid at the end of the deferral period, provided that the employee has remained in employment throughout.
The total cash received plus the award value of any deferred element may not exceed 200% of a participants base salary in the year in which that bonus is calculated.
The Remuneration Committee will determine at the date of each award whether any deferred amount should be deferred into shares or cash.
There is no intention to use newly issued ordinary shares for the Bonus Plan and any shares required for the satisfaction of deferred bonuses will be acquired by market purchase.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive directors are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
The LTIP aims to focus managements attention on continuous and sustainable improvements in the underlying financial performance of the Group and on the delivery of superior returns to Xstratas shareholders over the long-term by providing executives with the opportunity to earn superior levels of reward for outstanding performance.
In addition, the LTIP further aligns the interests of shareholders and management by encouraging executives to build a shareholding in the Group.
The LTIP provides for the grant of both contingent awards of free shares Free Share Awards and share options on the same occasion to the same individual.
The two elements will be complementary and ensure that the cyclical nature of the industry does not have an excessively adverse effect on employee remuneration in circumstances where the performance of the Group has otherwise been good relative to that of competitors.
The Free Share Awards will ensure that where the Group has performed well over a specified performance period participants will be rewarded, even if there is no substantial share price growth due to external factors, such as commodity prices or general economic conditions.
The option element will only allow participants to benefit provided shareholders also benefit from future share price growth.
The options will also be subject to stretching performance targets to ensure that windfall growth in the share price as a result of external factors does not deliver rewards which are not justified by the performance of the Group relative to its peer group.
The policy regarding performance targets is discussed in more detail below.
The number of ordinary shares over which options will be granted will be calculated using a Black Scholes valuation of the option or a similar approach which the Remuneration Committee considers represents more accurately both the cost to Xstrata of providing the benefit and the value of the option itself as a component of the total remuneration package.
The option value at grant will not be less than 25% of the value of the underlying shares.
In determining the value of Free Share Awards the value of the underlying shares will be used.
90 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Using the method above, the ratio of Free Share Awards to share options for awards made during 2003 was in general 1:1, based on the value at the time of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may change the ratio for future awards if it is thought appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that annual awards will be made under the LTIP to minimise the impact of share price volatility and to reflect existing best practice.
The rules of the LTIP provide that the aggregate value of options and Free Share Awards made to an individual in any one year may not exceed an amount equal to two times base salary in normal circumstances although in exceptional circumstances the limit may be up to but not exceed four times base salary.
Summary of performance conditions 2003 LTIP award During 2003 executive directors were granted market value options and Free Share Awards under the LTIP.
Both the options and Free Share Awards will vest in full at the expiry of a three year performance period to the extent that the Groups total shareholder return TSR ranks at or above the 2nd decile of a specified peer group, and as to 50% if it ranks at the median of the peer group.
In between these two points straight line vesting will apply.
No options or Free Share Awards will vest for below median performance.
The performance targets are not capable of being retested at the end of the performance period, so that any proportion of a Free Share Award or option which does not vest after three years will lapse, although options will remain exercisable after vesting for a maximum of seven years or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may specify after which they will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee may, at its absolute discretion, vary, add, remove or alter the companies making up the peer group where events happen which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that such a change is appropriate to ensure that the performance condition continues to represent a fair measure of performance provided that they reasonably consider the varied or amended performance condition is not materially easier or more difficult to satisfy.
On award, the peer group for the 2003 LTIP award comprised the following global mining companies: Alcoa Inc, Alumina Ltd, Anglo American plc, BHP Billiton plc, MIM Holdings Ltd, Noranda Inc, Phelps Dodge Corp, Rio Tinto plc, Teck Cominco Ltd and Umicore SA.
MIM Holdings Ltd was acquired by Xstrata in 2003 and with further consolidation within the industry likely the Remuneration Committee have considered it more appropriate and robust to use an enlarged peer group to determine the vesting of the 2003 awards.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe this change will materially make it easier or more difficult for awards to vest.
The new peer group will consist of: Alcoa Inc: Alcan Inc, Anglo American plc: Arch Coal Inc, BHP Billiton plc, Coal & Allied Industries Ltd, Elkem ASA, Eramet SA, Grupo Mexico SA fide CV, Inco Ltd, Korea Zinc Inc, Lonmin plc, Noranda Inc, Norddeutsche Affinerie AG, Peabody Energy Corp, Phelps Dodge Corp, Rio Tinto plc, Teck Cominco Ltd, Umicore SA, WMC Resources Ltd.
Since the Groups share price and that of its peers are significantly influenced by the cycle in commodity prices, the Remuneration Committee considers TSR relative to a peer group to be an appropriate performance measure as it should help foster superior shareholder returns by providing a clear line of sight with the business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee is also satisfied that TSR will be a genuine reflection of the Groups underlying financial performance.
In calculating the TSR, the share price of a notional parcel of shares of the Group and the companies in the specified peer group will be averaged over a period preceding the start and end of the relevant performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved that averaging over a three month period eliminates the volatility in spot share prices that could otherwise distort the assessment of whether the target has been met.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 91 REMUNERATION REPORT The TSR of the Group and each member of the peer group over any performance period is calculated by taking the growth between the closing value and the base value of 100 shares expressed as a percentage of the base value, on the assumption that any net dividend per share paid by any company during the relevant performance period is reinvested in shares on the last day of the month during which the relevant shares go ex-dividend.
This calculation is subject to such adjustments to closing value and base value as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate to reflect any variation of share capital or any merger, take-over, reconstruction or demerger or change in listing status by any member of the peer group or upon any other events which the Remuneration Committee considers may materially distort the calculation.
Proposed changes for the 2004 LTIP award The Remuneration Committee may adopt different performance conditions during the life of the LTIP and may vary the ratio of Free Share Awards to share options.
Any new performance conditions would be no less demanding, and full details of any changes would be disclosed to shareholders in the Groups annual report in the relevant financial year.
As part of the Remuneration Committees ongoing review of remuneration arrangements, the Remuneration Committee proposes to amend the performance conditions for any LTIP awards made in 2004.
For 2004 LTIP awards, the Remuneration Committee intend to set two performance conditions.
It is envisaged that half of the options and Free Share Awards granted under the 2004 LTIP award would be conditional on TSR relative to a larger peer group.
The second half of the options and Free Shares granted under the 2004 LTIP award would be conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 5% of the LTIP award vesting for 1% cost savings, 35% for 2% cost savings and 50% for 3% or more cost savings, with straight line vesting between these points.
The proposed changes reflect the Groups strategic initiative to add shareholder value through productivity and cost efficiencies.
Furthermore, the use of a financial performance measure alongside a relative TSR measure is aligned with current corporate governance best practice.
Performance Graph FTSE 100 Index Xstrata plc 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 20 March 2002 31 December 2002 31 December 2003 The performance graph set out above shows the TSR for a holding of shares of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2003 compared with the TSR for a hypothetical holding of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference to which the FTSE100 index is calculated.
The Board considers that the FTSE 100 currently represents the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes.
TSR has been calculated on a spot basis with effect from 20 March 2002, the date conditional dealings in the shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange, assuming that an equivalent sum was invested on that day in shares of the Group and in the Index.
Net dividends are invested in additional shares and benefits receivable in the form of shares are also added to the relevant holding.
92 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Value of Investment The TSR calculation also assumes that immediately before any liability to the Group in respect of the shares is due to be satisfied sufficient shares are sold from the holding to raise funds to meet the liability: for example, in the case of a rights issue sufficient rights are deemed to be sold to enable the proceeds to be invested in taking up as many rights as possible without injecting fresh funds.
Subsisting rights under Xstrata AG share schemes Subsisting options held by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid pursuant to terms on which they were recruited and the subsisting options of Santiago Zaldumbide and Dr Fred Roux non-executive director under certain share schemes previously operated by Xstrata AG were converted into equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Group at the time of the listing of the Groups shares on the London Stock Exchange the Listing but otherwise continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the relevant Xstrata AG share schemes.
It is intended that the replacement options will as far as possible be satisfied by the transfer of ordinary shares in the Group held by the trustees of the Xstrata Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Xstrata Employee and Directors Share Ownership Trust.
Whilst subsisting options continue to vest under these schemes, no future grants will be made.
Similarly, subsisting options, which had been previously granted to Mick Davis over shares in Xstrata AG owned by Glencore International, were also converted into equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Group on the Listing but otherwise continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as applied originally.
Subsisting rights to share options previously granted under the Xstrata AG Share Schemes described above and the option over shares in the Group held by Glencore granted to Mick Davis are not subject to performance conditions because they were originally granted under arrangements which did not provide for awards to be subject to performance which related to Xstrata AG prior to the Group becoming a UK listed company.
Pensions Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in money purchase retirement plans from their respective dates of joining the Group.
The plans are designed so as to optimise taxation implications, having regard to the taxation and employment status of each executive.
Contributions will be calculated on actuarial advice with the objective of accumulating sufficient funds over the working lifetime of each executive to provide an overall target pension which is currently intended to be equivalent to approximately 60% of final salary at normal retirement age for executives who begin participating in the plans at the age of 40.
The actual benefits payable will, however, be based on the amount which has accumulated in that members money purchase account.
Such contributions are inclusive of any contributions from the relevant individuals.
Employee contributions are currently payable at a rate of 0% of annual salary for Mick Davis and 5% for Trevor Reid.
As noted above, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no pension benefits under the terms of his fixed cost remuneration arrangement.
Directors service contracts It is the Groups general policy that the period of notice required should not exceed 12 months.
If it became necessary to offer a longer notice period to a new director, such period should reduce after the initial period.
Where specific terms apply to individual executive directors, these are set out in the section of this report headed Entitlements under Service Contracts.
External appointments Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without approval of the Board and do not currently do so.
Non-executive directors The level of fees for non-executive directors will be set at the level considered necessary to obtain the services of individuals with the relevant skills and experience to bring added depth and breadth to the composition of the Board.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 93 REMUNERATION REPORT Non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman and the Chief Executive in the light of fees payable to non-executive directors of comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors are eligible to forgo all or part of their directors fees to acquire shares in the Group, after deduction of applicable income tax and social security contributions.
Apart from Dr Fred Roux holding subsisting rights under share schemes previously operated by Xstrata AG as detailed above, the non-executive directors do not, and will not in the future, participate in the Bonus Plan or LTIP nor any other performance-related incentive arrangements which may be introduced from time to time.
Entitlements under service contracts Executive Directors Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with Xstrata Services UK Limited XSL effective from 1 February 2002 which are for fixed terms of one year.
However, their services as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively are provided to the Group under a secondment agreement entered into between the Group and XSL on 19 March 2002.
Each of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid is seconded to the Group for a fixed term of two years thereafter renewable by either party for further periods of two years.
The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated by not less than 12 months notice by XSL or the director concerned or by a payment in lieu of notice by XSL.
On a termination of the employment agreement by XSL in breach, or if Mick Davis or Trevor Reid resigns in circumstances where they either cannot in good faith be expected to continue in employment, each director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 150% of his annual salary and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses and to have all entitlements under his retirement benefit plans paid in accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mick Davis and Trevor Reid participate in defined contribution arrangements it is not expected that any significant additional liability would arise in respect of retirement plan entitlements beyond that already accrued in the accounts.
In addition, each of the executive directors is eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan which provides that deferred amounts remain payable notwithstanding cessation of employment after the date a bonus is awarded other than in the event of dismissal for cause.
In the case of termination by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability before the date the bonus is awarded for a financial year, or if the Remuneration Committee in its discretion so resolves, a proportion of the annual bonus pool may still be awarded subject to the normal discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Trevor Reid received a bonus payment as compensation for bonus and share option benefits he lost when he left his previous employment to join XSL of US$295,000 on 2 January 2003 and US$221,000 on 2 January 2004 having satisfied the condition that he should be in employment on that date.
On termination of the agreement under which Santiago Zaldumbide receives a fixed fee for acting as Chairman of Asturiana, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to receive a sum from the redemption of an insurance policy acquired by Asturiana as described above.
Santiago Zaldumbide is engaged as a director of the Group on the terms of a letter of appointment dated 18 March 2002.
The appointment is on an indefinite basis subject to the existence of the agreement between Santiago Zaldumbide and Asturiana, the terms and conditions of which are detailed above.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive no additional remuneration for his position as director of the Group and is not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination of his office as a director of the Group.
94 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Non-executive Directors Willy Strothotte is engaged by the Group as a non-executive Director and Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment is for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 25 February 2002 and terminable thereafter by six months notice by Willy Strothotte.
The Group may terminate Willy Strothottes appointment at any time and on such termination Willy Strothotte will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
The term may be renewed by the Board.
David Rough is engaged by the Group as a non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment is for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 1 April 2002 and terminable thereafter by six months notice by David Rough.
The Group may terminate David Roughs appointment at any time and on such termination David Rough will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
David Issroff, Ivan Glasenberg, Paul Hazen, Robert MacDonnell, Dr Fred Roux, Sir Steve Robson and Ian Strachan are each engaged by the Group as a non-executive Director on the terms of a letter of appointment.
Each appointment is for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 25 February 2002 or on 8 May 2003 in the case of Ian Strachan and terminable thereafter by six months notice by the non-executive Director.
The Group may terminate each non-executive Directors appointment at any time and on such termination the non-executive Director will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Each term may be renewed by the Board.
There is no arrangement under which a Director has agreed to waive future emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the financial year.
There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided by any member of the Group to or for the benefit of any of the Directors.
No significant awards have been made in the financial year to any past directors.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 95 REMUNERATION REPORT Information Subject to Audit Emoluments and compensation The emoluments and compensation in respect of qualifying services of each person who served as director during the year were as follows: Health, life and Year ended private December 31 Salary Deferred Housing medical Other 2002 1 and fees Bonus Bonus allowances insurance benefits Total Total Director US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Executives 2 3a 3a Mick Davis 1,307,200 1,488,000 262,000 184,168 32,523 7,016 3,280,907 2,327,398 2 3a 5 Trevor Reid 555,560 616,000 142,789 5,811 298,626 1,618,786 1,351,956 4 3b 4 Santiago Zaldumbide 762,026 723,000 10,859 1,495,885 1,142,712 Non-executives Willy Strothotte 115,000 115,000 115,000 Paul Hazen 70,000 70,000 70,000 David Issroff 60,000 60,000 60,000 Robert MacDonnell 70,000 70,000 70,000 Dr. Fred Roux 70,000 70,000 70,000 Ivan Glasenberg 70,000 70,000 58,333 Sir Steve Robson CB 75,000 75,000 58,333 David Rough 105,000 105,000 87,500 6 Ian Strachan 55,000 55,000 Dr. Reto Domeniconi 20,000 3,314,786 2,827,000 262,000 326,957 49,193 305,642 7,085,578 5,431,232 1 Salary and fees includes non-executive directors fees which may be paid in shares.
2 In 2003, Mick Davis and Trevor Reids salaries, bonuses, allowances and other benefits were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The salary and allowances figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.634 2002: 1.5013 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
3a Bonuses were calculated in US dollars and converted at a rate of 1:$1.86 for payment in pounds sterling.
3b Bonus was calculated in US dollars and converted at a rate of EUR1:$1.2677 for payment in euros.
4 Based on the average euro US dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.1302 2002: 0.943.
5 Includes bonus payment of $295,000 received on joining XSL.
See Entitlements under service contracts above.
Trevor Reid was entitled to a further bonus of US$221,000 by remaining in employment on 2 January 2004 which was inadvertently paid 5 days early and will therefore be shown in next years report.
6 In addition to his remuneration shown above, Ian Strachan was paid 15,000 for consulting services prior to his appointment as a director on 8 May 2003.
7 No consideration has been paid to or is receivable by third parties for making available the qualifying services of any directors during the year or in connection with the management affairs of Xstrata.
Deferred bonus payable in shares 96 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003
