34 Remuneration report The Board has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code as discussed within the Companys corporate governance statement on pages 30 to 33, and has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as described below.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, a resolution is being put to the Companys shareholders to approve the Remuneration Committees report and this vote is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting see page 71.
Those sections which our auditors,  LLP, have audited have been specifically identified within this report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The current members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, are Alan Dalby Chairman, Alan Smith, Michael Lytton and, since 25 March 2004, Ross Graham.
The remit of the Committee is to determine, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration and other benefits of all Executive Directors, including basic salary, benefits, pension contributions, bonus payments, share based long-term incentives and service contracts.
During 2003, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC, an independent professional organisation specialising in providing advice on executive remuneration issues, employee share schemes and pensions, were appointed by and materially assisted the Committee and Weil, Gotshal and Manges provided advice in relation to the termination payment received by Dr Brown as compensation for loss of office.
Additionally, NBSC provides advice to the Company on the day-to-day operation of the Companys share option plans.
During 2003, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary also materially assisted the Committee in its discussions, except in relation to their own remuneration.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The Committee is aware that it must both attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre.
It therefore aims to ensure that remuneration packages are competitive when compared with comparable publicly listed companies and that they fairly and responsibly reward individuals for their contribution to the success of the Group.
A significant proportion of Directors remuneration is performance related through an annual bonus scheme, share options and long-term incentive plan awards.
COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION BASIC SALARY AND BENEFITS In determining the basic salary of each Director, the Committee takes into account, and intends to take into account in respect of future financial years, the individuals responsibilities, and pay levels are set in the light of independent assessment of market practices.
Basic salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually and compared to salary levels in a group of comparably sized biotechnology companies.
For US-based Executive Directors, salary levels in companies of a similar size to Acambis Inc. are also reviewed for comparative purposes.
Salary reviews take account of all responsibility changes.
Benefits offered to all Executive Directors comprise private healthcare, life assurance, permanent health insurance, private telephone and the use of company assets.
In addition, Mr Cameron and Mr Higgins receive a car allowance and Mr Cameron also receives a benefit related to company-provided accommodation and travel for both himself and his family, during his period of assignment to the US.
Dr Brown also received a car allowance until the date of his retirement from the Board.
ANNUAL BONUS Bonuses are non-pensionable and based on a percentage of basic salary at the date of award.
For the financial year 2003, the maximum bonus was 50% of basic salary.
From 2004, the maximum annual bonus has been increased to 75% of basic salary.
This increase has been made to maintain the market competitiveness of the incentives offered to Executive Directors compared with peer companies.
The maximum 75% bonus level can only be achieved for significantly outperforming budgeted targets.
Bonuses are paid, at the discretion of the Committee, in recognition of the Directors contributions to the success of the Group.
Objectives are set that are considered to be both challenging and realistic.
From the beginning of 2003, the performance metrics on which bonus payments are assessed are a mix of financial, product development and business development targets.
In 2003, the Committee reviewed the operation of that part of the Acambis Share Incentive Plan see pages 35 to 36 that permits Directors to receive up to 50% of their annual bonus in Acambis shares, and to receive one further matching share for every four shares so held after one year.
As a result of this review, this aspect of the Share Incentive Plan is not being operated in 2004 or the future.
35 LONG-TERM INCENTIVES The Committee principally seeks to incentivise Executive Directors by offering participation in share-based longterm incentive schemes.
Executive Directors currently participate in grants of share options under the Acambis 1999 Share Option Plan and in grants of performance shares under the Acambis Share Incentive Plan.
These plans and the performance conditions that apply to awards under these plans are described in more detail below.
The Committee has established a policy that it believes is balanced whereby Executive Directors can receive an annual grant of options of up to one times basic salary per annum granted in two half-yearly tranches and an annual grant of performance shares of up to one times basic salary per annum.
The Committee intends to consult leading institutional shareholders should it wish to alter this policy in the future to allow additional grants to be made.
The Committee has reviewed the performance conditions applying to share options and has determined that there will be no retesting of performance conditions for options granted in 2004 and in the future.
A SHARE OPTION SCHEMES All Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys share option schemes.
The share option schemes consist of an Inland Revenue-approved executive scheme and unapproved executive schemes.
The grant of options under the current executive schemes the 1996 Scheme and the 1999 Plan as defined below, is at the discretion of the Committee and their exercise is subject to performance conditions.
Grants to be made in 2004 will be subject to performance conditions relating to the performance of Acambis total shareholder return TSR compared with a comparator group of other companies within the industry.
The Committee has chosen this group as being the most appropriate for Acambis given that Acambis is a constituent of this sector.
As in 2002, during 2003 the Committee did consider including selected US biotechnology companies within the TSR comparator group.
However, the Committee did not consider this appropriate given the Group is primarily compared to other UK-based biotechnology companies.
This will continue to be reviewed in future years.
The TSR condition seeks to align the interests of executives with the interests of shareholders by requiring superior relative TSR performance compared with other biotechnology companies before options can be exercised.
The maximum allocation of shares would be achieved if Acambis is ranked in the upper quartile of the comparator group, being prorated down to a 30% allocation at a ranking at the median.
No allocation will be made if Acambis ranking falls below the median.
The performance condition is measured over a single three-year period.
As noted in the section on long-term incentives above, from 2004 there is no retesting of performance conditions for new option grants.
For the purposes of TSR calculation, the Companys TSR will be averaged over the three months preceding the commencement of the period and the three months preceding a measurement date to ensure that results are not influenced by short-term volatility.
TSR calculations are performed by an independent party.
From 2003, grants to Executive Directors are subject to an additional performance condition that requires the Committee to be satisfied that there has been improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance over the relevant performance period.
The Company also operates an Inland Revenue-approved savings-related scheme, which is available generally to all UK employees, provided they enter into savings contracts.
B LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SHARE PLAN The Acambis Share Incentive Plan LTIP has been established for Executive Directors and certain senior employees.
The plan is designed to encourage participants to focus their efforts on longer-term growth in shareholder value and to encourage commitment to remain with the Acambis Group.
36 Remuneration report COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SHARE PLAN CONTINUED Long-term incentive awards are made, upon the recommendation of the Committee, by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust the Trust and comprise performance shares being a right to acquire, at no cost, a fixed maximum number of shares in the Company.
The right to acquire shares only vests after three years and is subject to a performance target.
All outstanding awards are subject to performance conditions relating to the performance of Acambis TSR compared to a comparator group of other companies within the industry over a single three-year period with no opportunity for re-testing.
For grants in 2004 this condition will apply and the comparator companies will be as detailed in the section on share options above.
The maximum allocation of shares would be achieved if Acambis were ranked in the upper quartile of the comparator group, being prorated down to a 30% allocation at a ranking of the median.
The performance condition is measured over a three-year period beginning at date of award.
TSR calculations are performed by an independent third party.
From the beginning of 2003, awards to Executive Directors are subject to an additional performance condition that requires the Committee to be satisfied that there has been improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance over the relevant performance period.
In 2003, the Committee reviewed the operation of that part of the LTIP that allowed participants to leave vested plan shares in the Trust after three years in order to receive a grant of a further one matching share for each four plan shares deposited.
As a result of this review, this aspect of the LTIP is not being operated for new grants made in 2004 and in future years.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES The Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and maintain substantial interests in Acambis shares, thereby aligning their interests with other shareholders.
In 2003, all Executive Directors increased their shareholdings in the Company.
Given the levels of current shareholdings by Executive Directors, the Committee has decided not to introduce formal share ownership guidelines in 2004 but will continue to keep the position under review.
PENSION SCHEME In the UK, the Company operates a self-administered, defined contribution, Inland Revenue-approved pension scheme for the Executive Directors including Gordon Cameron who is currently based in the US.
The Company contributes 18% of basic salary into this scheme on behalf of each Executive Director.
No other benefits are pensionable.
In the US, the Group offers a 401k Savings and Retirement Plan for all employees, including Executive Directors based in the US.
Participants may contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation into the plan.
The Company can make discretionary matching contributions, up to a maximum of 3% of basic salary.
Pension costs for each Director are shown on page 38.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Details of the service contracts of those who served as Directors during the year are: Director Contract date Notice period Executive: 1 Dr John Brown 1 Mar 97 12 months 2 Gordon Cameron 1 Mar 97 12 months Nicolas Higgins 29 Nov 96 12 months Dr Thomas Monath 12 Mar 02 12 months Non-executive: Alan Smith 1 Jan 98 3 months Alan Dalby 25 Mar 98 3 months Michael Lytton 12 Mar 01 3 months 3 Dr Geoffrey Porges 12 Mar 01 3 months 4 Victor Schmitt 4 Dec 00 See note 3 NOTES 1 Dr Brown resigned from the Board on 31 December 2003.
2 Following Mr Camerons appointment to Chief Executive Officer on 23 February 2004, the terms and conditions of his service contract were amended to reflect his new role.
3 Dr Porges resigned from the Board on 22 January 2003.
4 Mr Schmitt resigned from the Board on 21 January 2004 following the sale of Baxters shareholding in Acambis in December 2003.
37 All Executive Directors have contracts with 12-month notice periods, in line with current best practice.
On early termination of contract, an Executive Director would be entitled to basic salary and benefits for the notice period.
The Committee believes that, in the event of early termination of an Executive Directors contract, it is appropriate to examine the specific circumstances of each case.
Where appropriate, the Committee may agree to a phased payment of compensation over a fixed term.
During this term, if the Executive Director were to find a new position payments would cease.
The Committee does, however, reserve the right to make a payment in lieu of any period of notice.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to their fees during any notice period.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to take up non-executive directorships or public service appointments and that these can broaden the experience and knowledge of the Director, from which the Company will benefit.
Accordingly, subject to Board approval, they may accept non-executive appointments, as long as these are not likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
They are also allowed to retain any fees paid under such appointments.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES AND TERMS The Non-executive Directors fees are determined, and it is intended shall be determined in future financial years, by the Board on the basis of independent advice on current levels in similar businesses.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible and do not participate in pensions, incentives, bonuses or any similar payments other than out-of-pocket travel and accommodation costs in connection with the performance of their duties.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES UNAUDITED The Directors who served during the year had the following beneficial interests in the shares of the Company: Number of ordinary Number of ordinary 10p shares held 10p shares held at 31 Dec 03 at 31 Dec 02 1 Dr John Brown 484,127 305,245 2 Gordon Cameron 228,008 163,849 Alan Dalby 5,000 5,000 3 Nicolas Higgins 228,801 205,978 Michael Lytton 8,120 8,120 Dr Thomas Monath 32,453 12,453 4 Dr Geoffrey Porges 8,100 5 Victor Schmitt Alan Smith 1,800 1,800 NOTES 1 Dr Brown resigned from the Board on 31 December 2003.
4,648 of the shares owned by Dr Brown are held in Trust on his behalf by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust.
2 136,211 of the shares owned by Mr Cameron are held in Trust on his behalf by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust.
3 120,923 of the shares in which Mr Higgins has a registerable interest are owned by his wife.
4 Dr Porges resigned from the Board on 22 January 2003.
5 Mr Schmitt resigned from the Board on 21 January 2004.
Individually, each of the Directors beneficially owns less than 1% of the total issued share capital.
As at 31 December 2003, the Directors had no interests in shares of any other Group company.
On 22 March 2004, Mr Higgins wife transferred 120,923 shares registered in her name into the name of Mr Higgins, and subsequently on 23 March 2004 Mr Higgins sold those shares, for 3.49 per share.
On 23 March 2004, Mr Higgins and Dr Monath, exercised options to acquire 16,681 and 100,000 shares respectively.
At the same time, Mr Higgins sold 16,681 shares and Dr Monath sold 90,000 shares in part to fund the immediate income tax liabilities arising and the cost of exercising the options for 3.49 per share.
After these transactions, the shareholdings in Acambis held by Mr Higgins and Dr Monath were 107,878 and 42,453 shares respectively.
Save for the above there have been no changes in the interests of the current Directors in the share capital of the Company since 31 December 2003.
The Executive Directors also have an interest as potential beneficiaries in the 582,532 ordinary shares held at 15 March 2004 by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust.
38 Remuneration report COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED The total remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2003 shown below comprised salaries, benefits, bonuses, pension contributions and Non-executive Director fees.
During the year, no Directors waived emoluments.
On termination, Dr Brown received a payment of 449,806 gross as compensation for loss of office.
2 In addition to the payments outlined in note 1, in January 2004 Dr Brown received 359,960 in respect of a Consultancy Agreement for services to be performed during 2004.
3 During the year, Mr Cameron received a benefit valued at 44,000, in relation to the provision by the Group of accommodation and travel whilst he is located in the US.
This amount is included within benefits.
4 Dr Monath was appointed to the Board on 12 March 2002.
Amounts in 2002 represent the period from the date of his appointment.
5 Dr Porges resigned from the Board on 22 January 2003.
Amounts in 2003 represent the period until the date of his termination.
6 Sir Brian Richards retired from the Board on 31 May 2002.
Amounts in 2002 represent the period up to the date of his retirement.
7 Mr Schmitt resigned from the Board on 21 January 2004.
Under the terms of his appointment he did not receive fees.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARE OPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS AUDITED The Directors who held office at 31 December 2003 hold options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company under the Acambis 1995 Unapproved Share Option Scheme 1995 Scheme, the Acambis 1996 Approved Share Option Scheme 1996 Scheme, the Acambis 1995 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme and the Acambis 1999 Share Option Plan 1999 Plan.
Following the introduction of the 1999 Plan in October 1999, no further issues of options will be made under the 1995 Scheme.
2 The market value of these shares exercised by Dr Brown and Mr Higgins at the time of exercise was 317p per share.
The gain arising on the exercise of these options has been included in the table summarising gains made by Directors on page 41.
3 The market value of these shares exercised by Dr Brown at the time of exercise was 361p per share.
4 The market value of these shares exercised by Mr Cameron and Mr Higgins at the time of exercise was 288p per share.
5 The market value of these shares exercised by Mr Monath at the time of exercise was 319p per share.
6 The performance condition for those options granted under the 1995 Scheme, the 1996 Scheme and the 1999 Plan is either: a that the percentage growth in the Companys share price over the three years from the date of grant must exceed the percentage growth in the total return for the FTSE All-Share index over that three-year period: or b that the average percentage share price movements of the Company over each of the three years beginning on a date not earlier than the grant date and ending on the date of exercise must exceed the average movements in the FTSE All-Share Index over each of those three years.
7 The performance condition for those options granted under the 1999 plan compares the Companys TSR to the TSR of a chosen group of biotechnology companies over a three-year period.
A median ranking must be achieved before any part of the option may be exercised 50% of the option and an upper quartile ranking must be achieved for the option to vest in full.
This condition if not initially achieved in full can be further measured over a fouror five-year period measured from the same fixed base point.
8 The performance condition for these options granted under the 1999 plan is the same as that outlined in note 7, except that only 30% of the option may be exercised if the Company achieves a median ranking, performance can only be re-measured once over a four-year period and there is also a requirement before the option can be exercised for the Committee to satisfied with the Companys underlying financial performance over the performance period.
40 Remuneration report COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED 9 Following Dr Browns resignation from the Board see note 1, the Committee exercised its discretion to permit vesting of Dr Browns outstanding options in accordance with the 1999 Plan.
The Committee is of the opinion that the performance conditions applying to these options are likely to be met and accordingly the options may be exercised over the full number of shares shown.
These options vested on 31 December 2003 and are exercisable during the period 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2006.
10Under the rules of the SAYE Scheme, these options lapsed following the announcement of Dr Browns resignation from the Board.
Dr Brown was however entitled to receive a payment of 3,283 representing the repayment of his contributions plus interest under the savings contract in the SAYE Scheme.
11 No performance conditions apply to SAYE options.
12 All of the above options were granted for nil consideration and are held over 10p ordinary shares in the Company.
13 The market price of shares at 31 December 2003 was 305p and the range during the year was 207.5p to 396p per share.
Further information on each of the Companys share option schemes, including the number of options outstanding, exercise prices and exercise periods, is set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
All LTIP awards are held over ordinary 10p shares in the Company.
2 Dr Brown resigned from the Board on 31 December 2003.
3 The performance condition for these awards compares the Companys TSR to the TSR of a chosen group of biotechnology companies over a three-year period.
A median ranking must be achieved before any part of the award may vest 30% of the award and an upper quartile ranking must be achieved for the award to vest in full.
After three years, vested plan shares may be left in the Trust and participants can then receive a grant of a further one matching share for each four plan shares so deposited.
The matching shares will vest provided the participant remains employed and does not withdraw those plan shares for a further two years.
4 The market value of these shares at the date of the award, 14 May 2003, was 319p per share.
The performance target attached to these awards is as described in note 3.
5 Following Dr Browns resignation from the Board see note 2 these awards were forfeited to the extent shown given the performance criteria set out in note 3 had not been met in full.
Awards were also time apportioned from date of award to 31 December 2003.
The balance of these awards are exercisable during the period 31 March 2004 to 30 June 2004 inclusive.
6 In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, Dr Brown elected to receive 50% of his 2002 bonus in the form of Acambis shares see annual bonus on page 34.
These shares are disclosed within the table of Directors interests in shares on page 37.
Following Dr Browns resignation from the Board see note 2, this award vested on 31 December 2003 and is exercisable in the period 1 January 2004 to 31 March 2004.
