"Remuneration Report I n t rod u c t i o n This years remuneration re p o rt is presented for the first time to shareholders in accordance with the re q u i rements of the D i rectors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the ""Regulations""."
In preparing the re p o rt in the new format the Remuneration Committee has reviewed remuneration policy for executive directors and in so doing has re a ff i rmed its commitment to ensure that overall remuneration continues to be linked to organisational and individual perf o rmance and has a clear alignment with the intere s t s of share h o l d e r s. The re p o rt also includes details of a new Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan for executive directors, which will be put to share h o l d e r s at the AGM and awards will be made there a f t e r. If approved, the Plan will replace the deferred bonus scheme for executive dire c t o r s established in 1998, awards in respect of which vested at the year ended 30th June 2003.
Remuneration Committee The Committee operates within terms of re f e rence and governance policies approved by the Board and is responsible on behalf of the Board for: d e t e rmining the service conditions and remuneration of all executive dire c t o r s : executive remuneration policy: the evaluation of executive director perf o rmance with re g a rd to the award of share options, deferred bonus and other perf o rm a n c e based re m u n e r a t i o n : obtaining independent professional advice in relation to executive director re m u n e r a t i o n. During the year under review the Remuneration Committee has met on five occasions.
Membership and Proceedings of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are all non-executive directors and during the year have comprised Mr A E K i l b u rn Chairman, Mr C G To n e r, Mr M Pescod and Mr P H Ashworth.
All Committee members other than Mr P H Ashwort h a re considered to be wholly independent with no financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
The G roup Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee as re q u i red but he is not present when matters affecting his own remuneration are considered.
Having re g a rd to current corporate governance expectations in relation to the independence of Remuneration Committee Members, Mr P H Ashworth has now stood down from membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Other than as expressly identified in this re p o rt the Remuneration Committee has complied with the Combined Code on 2 9 Corporate Governance.
The Committee recognises its accountability on executive remuneration to shareholders through this re p o rt and in determining future remuneration policy it will consider both the shareholders vote on the re p o rt and views expressed by s h a reholders on the detail of the r e p o rt.
A d v i c e Advice is provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secre t a ry, Mr L Dent, a practising solicitor.
Mr Dent also acts as secre t a ry to the Committee.
In addition, Watson Wyatt LLP were appointed by the Committee to advise on a range of issues, including the current market positioning of the Gro u p s executive remuneration having re g a rd to a comparator group of eleven other leading housebuilding companies.
They have also advised in relation to the stru c t u re of the proposed Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan to replace the deferred bonus scheme.
M e rcer Human Resource Consulting Limited has advised the Company in relation to various pensions issues and, with eff e c t f rom 10th July 2003, were appointed to provide actuarial services to the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
Slaughter and May, the Gro u p s principal legal advisors, advised the company in relation to the establishment and operation of the companys current executive and employee share schemes.
They have also advised the Remuneration Committee in relation to the rules governing the operation of the Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan.
Remuneration Policy This re p o rt details the companys remuneration policy both for 2003 04, and so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
Any changes made to the policy will be identified in subsequent Remuneration Reports to shareholders.
Central to the Gro u p remuneration policy is a recognition that the sustained growth and profitability of our business is determined in no short measure by the skill and commitment of the executive team.
The re w a rd policy for executive directors seeks to provide remuneration and other s e rvice conditions which will attract, retain, motivate and re w a rd executive directors of the highest calibre within the industry s highly competitive employment market.
Within these broad objectives the executive remuneration package is based on the following principles: the greater part of remuneration paid to executives should be linked to the achievement of demanding perf o rmance targ e t s : p e rf o rmance related remuneration should align the interests of executives with those of shareholders by setting perf o rm a n c e t a rgets based on measures of shareholder re t u rn : Remuneration Report total remuneration for outstanding perf o rmance should be competitive with that available elsewhere in the sector: executive director remuneration should be determined with due consideration to the re w a rds and conditions of all Gro u p employees, particularly in relation to the annual review of basic salary.
The Remuneration Package for Executive Dire c t o r s The remuneration package for executive directors comprises: basic salary : annual profit related bonus: d e f e rred bonus scheme to be replaced in 2003 with a Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan : s h a re option scheme: pension and other benefits.
Typically the perf o rmance related element of executive remuneration makes up more than 50% of the total package excluding pension benefits.
The perf o rmance conditions which apply to the perf o rmance related element of executive remuneration are the same for all executive directors and are set out in the following sections of this re p o rt.
Basic Salary Basic salaries for executive directors are a fixed annual sum payable monthly in cash.
Salaries are set having re g a rd to individual responsibilities, skills and experience and are currently based on the market median for similar positions in large national housebuilding companies.
Salaries are reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee and the following were set with eff e c t f rom 1st July 2003: D A Pre t t y 400,400 Appointed Chief Executive 18th October 2002 2002 : 230,000 H Wa l k e r2 5 0, 0 0 0 2002 : 230,000 S J Boyes2 2 0, 0 0 0 2002 : 180,000 C A Dearlove2 2 5, 0 0 0 2002 : 216,000 C Fenton1 7 5, 0 0 0 Appointed 1st July 2003 P R Giero n2 3 9, 0 0 0 2002 : 230,000 3 0 G K Hester2 3 9, 0 0 0 2002 : 220,000 Annual Profit Related Bonus Each executive director also participates in an annual profit related bonus scheme based on the annual level of the Gro u p s pre - tax profit with awards made at 0.133% of the Group pre-tax profit for the Group Chief Executive and 0.1% for all other executive d i rectors.
A similar annual bonus scheme is operated for senior management in all Group Regions and Divisions based on a p e rcentage of pre-tax profit for each Region and Division.
The Remuneration Committee proposes to review the annual profit related bonus scheme so that for 2004 05 and future years t h e re is a minimum level of profit that needs to be achieved before payouts begin.
This has not been an issue for the business given its sustained profit growth over the last 11 years.
The Committee considers it essential however that there should be clarity as to bonus entitlement should minimum profit targets not be achieved for whatever reason in the future.
S h a re Option Schemes The Gro u p s original Executive Share Option Scheme expired on its 10th anniversary in December 1996.
"In November 1997 the Company adopted the current Executive Share Option Plan the ""Plan""."
The grant of share options under the Plan is at the d i s c retion of the Remuneration Committee, taking into account individual perf o rmance and the overall perf o rmance of the Gro u p. Options must be held for a minimum of three years from the date of grant before they can be exercised and lapse if not exerc i s e d within ten years.
The exercise of the options granted under the Plan is subject to the achievement of an objective perf o rm a n c e condition set by the Remuneration Committee namely that the growth in the earnings per share of the Company over a period of t h ree consecutive financial years should exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index by at least 6% for options granted in 1997 and 1998 and by at least 9% for those options granted in and since 1999.
D e f e rred Bonus Scheme The current deferred bonus scheme was established by the Board in 1998.
It was a five year plan which ended on 30th June 2003 with any awards vesting at that date.
The plan was established with a view to the delivery of a stretching perf o rmance target which was to double shareholder funds from 399.4m to over 800m on 30th June 2003 by increasing retained profit by over 400.6m in that same period.
The maximum bonus award subject to achievement of the perf o rmance target is 0.005% of Group net profits during the perf o rmance period for executive directors and 0.0066% for the Group Chief Executive, pro rata to his period of office from 18th October 2002 to 30th June 2003.
50% of the bonus vests on attainment of the perf o rmance target and the remaining 50% vests at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee having re g a rd to individual and organisational perf o rmance.
With retained pro f i t s i n c reasing by 512.5m the perf o rmance target has been exceeded by 111.9m and, having re g a rd to the outstanding overall p e rf o rmance of all Regions of the business in the last five years, the Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion to award the 50% discre t i o n a ry element of the bonus in full.
Deferred bonus payments will be made to the Executive Directors as follows: Remuneration Report D A Pre t t y 5 0 8, 7 5 2 H Wa l k e r 4 7 6, 0 3 6 S J Boyes 2 5 6, 9 8 3 f rom 1st July 2001 C A Dearlove 4 7 6, 0 3 6 C Fenton N i l Appointed 1st July 2003 P R Giero n 4 7 6, 0 3 6 G K Hester 3 8 9, 5 4 0 f rom 29th November 1999 N o t e : The awards to Mr S J Boyes and Mr G K Hester are pro-rata to their period of office in the five year term of the plan.
Mr C Fenton was not a member of the scheme during the perf o rmance period and is not eligible for an award.
Pension Benefits All executive directors are members of the Gro u p s defined benefit pension scheme, which is now closed to new entrants.
The scheme entitles the executive directors with the exception of Mr D A Pre t t y, Mr G K Hester and Mr C Fenton to a pension on re t i rement at age 65 of two thirds of final pensionable salary after 40 years membership of the scheme.
The executive directors are also eligible for dependents pension and an insured lump sum of four times pensionable salary on death in service.
The final pension is calculated from the highest yearly average pensionable salary over three consecutive years during the last ten years of serv i c e. The entitlements of Mr D A Pre t t y, Mr G K Hester and Mr C Fenton are restricted by the earnings cap imposed under the Finance Act 1989.
Under a contractual arrangement entered into in 1992 Mr D A Pre t t y s pension accrues at the rate of 1 30th of the earnings cap.
As re p o rted to shareholders in previous remuneration re p o rts, annual profit related bonus is included in the calculation of final pensionable salary, for executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that for executive directors the inclusion of p rofit related bonus in the calculation of final pensionable salary re q u i res explanation under the Combined Code of Corporate G o v e rnance.
In this re g a rd the inclusion of profit related bonus in the calculation of pensionable salary is a contractual arr a n g e m e n t which pre-dates the introduction of the Combined Code.
Furt h e rm o re, it is an arrangement which applies equally to all Gro u p management and staff as well as to executive directors.
The Committee is also mindful that apart from the funding of Mr Pre t t y s pension at 1 30th of the earnings cap, no pension enhancements are off e red to Group executive directors whereas such executive pension enhancements are commonplace elsewhere in the sector.
The Remuneration Committee considers that until such time as the Inland Revenues pending proposals for the introduction of a lifetime limit on pensions currently anticipated at 1.4m with effect from April 2005 are finalised it would not be appropriate to implement any material changes to the stru c t u re of executive pensions.
It is anticipated that all executive directors other than those 3 1 whose pensions are already capped will be in excess of the proposed new Inland Revenue limits based on benefits earned to date.
The pension entitlements for all executive directors will there f o re be reviewed once final details of the Inland Revenue proposals are k n o w n. S e rvice Contracts All executive directors are engaged on identical terms on the basis of one year rolling contracts which can be terminated by 12 months notice given by the Company or by 12 months notice given by the executive at any time.
There are no specific pro v i s i o n s for compensation on early termination.
The contracts entitle executive directors to the provision of a Company car and membership of a private health care scheme.
Individual Executive Directors Service Contracts: Executive Dire c t o r sS e rvice Contract DateE ffective Date Notice Period D A Pre t t y2 3.
1 9 9 9 12 months Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board on the recommendation of a Committee of executive d i rectors and having re g a rd to published data for the remuneration of non-executive directors in listed companies.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee and having re g a rd to published data for the remuneration of non-executive chairmen in listed companies.
With effect from 1st July 2003 the fee payable to Mr C G Toner as non-executive chairman was increased from 80,000 to 87,500 per annum.
With effect from 1st July 2003 the annual fee payable to the other non-executive directors was increased from 29,300 to 31,200, with an additional annual fee of 5,000 payable to those who also chair a Board Committee.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are appointed by letter of engagement.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be terminated by the Board at any time without notice and without compensation for loss of off i c e. Under governance policies approved by the Board, non-executive directors are normally expected to serve a three year term of o ffice, with a maximum of two such three year terms being the norm, unless the Board approves service of a third three year term.
A maximum upper age limit of 70 years applies to all dire c t o r s. Non-executive Dire c t o r sE ffective date of current Appointment Date of first Appointment Mr C G To n e r 15th May 2002 15th May 2002 Appointed Chairman 18th October 2002 Mr P H Ashwort h 18th November 2002 1st May 1997 Mr A E Kilburn 18th November 2002 1st April 1998 Mr M Pescod 25th October 2002 1st October 2001 The Late Frank Eaton - Death in Service Benefits Following his sudden and untimely death on 7th October 2002 the following contractual entitlements and death in serv i c e benefits have been paid to the estate of the late Frank Eaton.
Four times salary, insured lump sum payment, refund of contributions and widows pension in accordance with the rules of the 3 2 B a rratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
As these benefits are provided under the Group pension scheme there is no charge to the profit and loss account.
S a l a ry and profit related bonus to the date of death as detailed in the Directors Emoluments table on page 34.
The following share options have also been exercised by the estate within twelve months of the date of death in accord a n c e with the rules of the Executive Share Option Plan.
of share s Date granted Date exerc i s e fide x e rcise price per share Market price at date of exerc i s e 6 5, 0 0 02 6.
0 p 9 3 5, 0 0 0 The Remuneration Committee has decided that Mr F Eatons Deferred Bonus, accrued between 1st July 1998 and 7th October 2002, should be paid to his estate in full, being 484,454.
Remuneration Report Total Shareholder Return Performance Graph The following graph pre p a red in accordance to the Regulations shows the Company Total Shareholder Return perf o rmance over the last five years against the FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector Index.
The Board has chosen this comparator index as the Group is a constituent of the index along with its major competitors and it is also the index which is used to measure p e rf o rmance under the Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan.
L o n g - Te rm Perf o rmance Plan 3 3 For 2003 04 and beyond the Remuneration Committee proposes to introduce a 3 year rolling Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan with a w a rds under the new scheme based on an annual allocation of notional ord i n a ry shares equivalent to a maximum of 100% of basic s a l a ry with vesting taking place at the expiry of the three year perf o rmance period of the plan, subject to attainment of the agre e d p e rf o rmance targets.
50% of the award will vest on attainment of a perf o rmance target based on Basic Earnings Per Share EPS g rowth and 50% based on Total Shareholder Return TSR.
A vesting schedule has been established so that in terms of EPS gro w t h, the full 50% will vest if EPS growth exceeds the Retail Price Index RPI plus 15% and 10% will vest if EPS growth exceeds RPI plus 10%, with straight line vesting between these two points.
The remaining 50% will vest subject to TSR perf o rmance measure d against the constituents of the FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector Index.
Again a vesting schedule has been established so that the full 50% will vest if TSR growth is in the upper quartile of the comparative index and 10% vesting if TSR g rowth is at the median of the index, with straight line vesting between the two points.
Executive Shareholding Guidelines To facilitate the introduction of a share based Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan the Remuneration Committee has agreed to establish the following Shareholding Guidelines for Executive Dire c t o r s : Within five years of first appointment Executive Directors are expected to hold throughout their period of office ord i n a ry share s in the company equivalent to 100% of their basic annual salary, pro-rata holdings are re q u i red to be held in this first five year p e r i od : For the purposes of determining the requisite level of each Executive Directors Shareholding relative to basic salary, the share price shall be that prevailing on 30th June in each year: P rovided Executive Directors hold the appropriate level of shares they shall be at liberty to sell shares so as to realise their LongTe rm Perf o rmance awards or in the exercise of share options subject to the normal Listing Rule re q u i rements for dire c t o r s h a re h o l d i n g s : Executive Directors have until 31st January in each accounting period to increase their shareholding to the appropriate level.
The auditors are re q u i red to re p o rt on the information detailed in the following part of this re p o rt.
DIRECTORS PENSION BENEFITS I n c rease in Transfer value a c c rued pensionA c c u m u l a t e d of the incre a s eI n c rease in Tr a n s f e r Tr a n s f e rI n c rease over the year to total accrued in the accru e da c c rued value of value of in transfer 3 0.
0 3 pension pension over pension overa c c rued a c c rued value net of at the end the year net of the year to pension at pension at over the i n f l a t i o n of the yeari n f l a t i o n 3 0.
The Listing Rules re q u i re this to be disclosed excluding inflation.
The increase in the accrued entitlement is the diff e rence between the accrued benefit at the end of the year and that at the p revious year end.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement re p resent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benefits.
They do not re p resent sums payable to individual directors and, there f o re cannot be added meaningfully to annual re m u n e r a t i o n. Remuneration Report DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS During the year A tA tE x e rcise PriceE a r l i e s tL a t e s t 3 0.
1 2 Granted under the 1986 Executive Share Option Scheme The mid-market share price of the company was 420.25p on 1st July 2002 and 432.00p as at 30th June 2003.
The mid-market high and low share prices of the company during the year were 479.00p and 335.00p re s p e c t i v e l y.
No options of directors in off i c e at 30th June 2003 lapsed unexercised during the year.
T h e re were no changes in the interests of the directors shown above between 1st July 2003 and the 24th September 2003.
On behalf of the Board A E Kilburn OBE C h a i rman of the Remuneration Committee 9th October 2003
