Report on directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee The Committee recognises that the Companys policy of generating During the financial year this Committee, currently chaired by David above average returns will not be achieved unless it attracts and retains Pangbourne, comprised the four non-executive directors and also Nigel individuals of sufficiently high calibre at Board and senior management Ellis, until he resigned from the Committee on 3 June 2003.
However it also recognises that remuneration should, at least in Committee meets at least three times a year to review remuneration policy part, reflect the performance of the Company.
In order to achieve both in relation to all staff, including determining and regularly reviewing how objectives a significant proportion of the remuneration of the directors the senior managers will be rewarded and incentivised and all aspects of and other members of staff is provided in the form of discretionary bonuses the executive directors performance.
During the year the Committee met which are directly related to performance.
The Committee aims to place five times.
The awarding of bonuses to the executive directors and senior directors in the middle band in terms of salary and towards the upper management and any changes to their remuneration packages or incentive quartile for bonuses and other incentive based rewards, thus encouraging schemes require the prior approval of the Committee.
It also agrees the and rewarding exceptional work.
During the financial year the executive service contracts of the executive directors, is kept informed of the terms directors earned bonuses which equated to 28% of their basic salary.
of employment of the Companys senior employees, and is required to Bonuses are paid in respect of the previous years reported results.
approve the appointment or dismissal of senior staff below Board level.
Service contracts These duties have been delegated to the Committee by the Board, which No executive directors service contract provides for a notice period in remains ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the Companys excess of six months.
Non-executive directors service agreements are remuneration arrangements.
The Board further authorises the Committee, for a period of three years.
in the performance of its duties, to seek any information it requires from employees, to obtain external professional advice and or information in Other directorships and related party transactions relation to remuneration in the sectors in which the Company operates at As at 31 March 2003 no executive director held any directorships not the Companys expense.
It must also give due regard to the recommendations related to the Group other than James Hamilton Stubber, who is a director of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, the UK of a family company.
Save as disclosed in note 5a to the financial Listing Rules and to any other associated guidance.
During the year the statements, there were no related party transactions with serving directors Committee drew on a wide range of information, including that of Income during the financial year.
Data Services to assist in determining directors remuneration.
Basic salary and other benefits The Committee is also directly accountable to the shareholders, and the Performance of the directors and staff, together with their basic salaries Chairman of the Committee will be present at the Annual General Meeting and benefits, are reviewed annually.
In considering performance the to answer any questions which shareholders may have about remuneration Committee makes reference to the contribution to the Group each issues.
The Committee Chairman is put up for re-election by shareholders individual has made and also to the performance of the Group, measured every year.
This Committee Report will be submitted to the membership for in terms of net asset value per share, both in absolute terms and relative adoption at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The information on directors remuneration, benefits and share options, The directors remuneration packages and terms of employment are which forms part of this report and is the part required to be audited, is considered in relation to best practice and also relative to the terms and set out in note 5 to the accounts.
conditions of employment of other senior employees of both the Group and the industry as a whole.
The Company also uses information provided Compliance with best practice by the Investment Property Databank.
Non-executive directors fees reflect The Board considers that the Company now complies with the principles their responsibility and the time they have spent on company business, set out in Section A of the Code concerning the composition and operation and are determined by the other Board members.
No director may be of the Committee, though the Company Chairman, Nigel Ellis, was involved in the determination of his own salary.
The basic salary and a Committee member until his resignation in June.
The Committee, principal benefits of each director is set out in note 5 to the accounts.
on behalf of the Board, has also given full consideration to Section B of the Code in determining the remuneration policy, service contracts The Company provides the following further benefits for directors and and compensation for directors.
senior staff: Policy and basis of remuneration life assurance The Company is committed to generating above average returns for permanent health insurance shareholders.
It has defined criteria for the payment of directors salaries, private medical insurance bonuses and incentives based on financial performance in terms of growth of assets, dividends and industry-related comparisons.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 26 INCENTIVE BASED REMUNERATION currently operated by the Group.
It is therefore proposed to establish a new Discretionary Bonus Scheme share incentive scheme, the Executive Directors Performance Share Plan the The Company has a discretionary bonus scheme: a performance related Plan.
This would assist in securing the services of such individuals for the incentive scheme which will reward all staff for exceptional performance long term and, by making the benefits receivable under the Plan conditional and provide motivation and identification with the success of the Company.
upon the satisfaction of challenging performance targets, would provide them The targets in place for payment of a bonus are that the Company must with an incentive to continued high achievement.
It is a key feature of the outperform the average of the Investment Property Databank IPD, Plan that participants will not normally receive shares through this Plan, nor the only industry wide benchmark, and the real rate of return must be will they normally be allowed to sell any shares in the Company before 2012 in excess of 10%.
Under the scheme executive directors are entitled to see the paragraph headed lock-in arrangements below.
Participants will earn up to 100% of base salary.
The bonus entitlements are calculated by therefore have a continuing interest in improving the Groups performance reference to the increase in shareholders funds as adjusted for any capital even after their shares have vested.
increases and the annual dividend at the end of the financial year, and are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Accordingly, at this years Annual General Meeting, the Committee will seek the approval of the shareholders to the adoption of the Plan.
A copy of the Pensions draft rules of the Plan will be available for inspection from the date of The Company makes defined contributions at the rate of 10% of basic salary dispatch of this circular at the offices of Nabarro Nathanson, Lacon House, in the case of executive directors into personal pension plans arranged by 84 Theobalds Road, London WC1X 8RW, on the Companys website at the Company.
Other Group employees are entitled to contributions to www.
com and also at 58 Davies Street, London W1K 5JF personal pension plans on fulfilment of various criteria.
The Group provides prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
and pays for access to external assistance and advice on pensions.
If the Plan is adopted, the Committee proposes to make initial awards under Share options the Plan to Adrian Wyatt and Nicholas Shattock.
These awards would in The Committee believes that share ownership by executive directors each case be of 500,000 shares, with a maximum 100,000 shares being and senior executives strengthens the link between their personal interests allocated on each of the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth anniversaries and those of the shareholders.
The Company currently operates two of the date the award is made subject to the catch-up provisions set out discretionary schemes: the 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme, which below, with the award shares to be released in normal circumstances on the was approved by the Inland Revenue on 17 July 1996 and the Groups ninth such anniversary.
The Committee will consider in each subsequent unapproved share option scheme, which is not Inland Revenue approved.
financial year whether to make further awards to executive directors under the Plan.
Any such awards would be with a view to the long term In accordance with the Joint Statement issued by the National Association incentivisation of such executive directors and, while the Committee would of Pension Funds and the Association of British Insurers, the Committee require to exercise its discretion in relation to such matters with reference to shall, on the date of grant of any option, specify objective performance the circumstances prevailing at the time, it is intended that such awards conditions which must be satisfied prior to the exercise of such option.
would be made on similar terms as to vesting, performance conditions etc.
Such objective performance conditions would be subject to prior Inland as the initial awards referred to above.
Your directors believe these proposals to be in the best interests of the The long term performance of the Company is considered in granting new shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that the Members options.
In order for options to be granted the Companys performance vote with them in favour of the resolution.
over the previous three years must exceed the rolling three year IPD Index.
Options may only be exercised if the growth in the share price of the The principal terms of the Plan may be summarised as follows: Company has exceeded 7.5% net of inflation.
Constitution During the financial year a total of 1,221,862 options were granted, The Plan will be constituted by rules approved by the Committee and 680,046 lapsed and 1,627,479 were exercised at option prices of between adopted by the Directors.
Details of options granted to and exercised by the directors are shown at note 5 b to the accounts.
Eligibility Any executive director of the Group who is required to devote substantially Executive Directors Performance Share Plan the whole of his or her working time to their duties for the Group will be The Committee considers that it is important that the executive directors eligible to participate in the Plan.
However, the Committee will, in its who are most responsible for adding value to the Group should share in that absolute discretion, select who will participate.
value to a greater extent than is allowed by the share incentive schemes ANNUAL REPORT 2003 27 Report on directors remuneration continued Making and constitution of awards 1 April 2003 and ending on 31 March in each of 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, The Committee will make awards of shares in the Company through the respectively, with 20% of the award shares being available to vest each year.
An award will be constituted by a certificate executed as a deed by the No award shares vest if the Companys NAV over the relevant performance Company and will consist of a conditional right to receive ordinary shares period does not satisfy the above test or if the Company does not outperform subject to performance targets and continued employment.
When an award IPD over the relevant period.
However, if in these circumstances the NAV test vests see below, the number of shares in respect of which the award vests is satisfied and the Company outperforms IPD in respect of the period are allocated to the participant and are held either in an employee trust or as commencing on 1 April 2003 and ending on 31 March 2012, then award treasury shares.
Such vested shares are then in normal circumstances shares which have not previously vested may vest on the ninth anniversary of released to the participant at the end of a further holding period, subject the award date.
To the extent that the NAV targets are not met by only to the participant remaining employed within the Group for that period.
31 March 2012 and or the Company does not outperform IPD by that date, A participant will not be required to make any payment in consideration of any unvested award will lapse on 31 March 2012. the making of any award nor upon such award vesting or being released to the participant.
The Committee will determine the performance conditions to apply to subsequent awards made under the Plan as are appropriate at the date such Awards will be personal to the participant and may not be transferred awards are made, but it is intended that such conditions would be similar in or assigned.
terms of difficulty of achievement and length of performance period as the initial awards referred to above.
Timing In absence of exceptional circumstances, awards may be only made within Release of award shares 42 days immediately following: Award shares which vest are allocated to the relevant participant, but are only released to the participant i. e. the participant becomes unconditionally the adoption of the Plan: or entitled to them on the expiry of a further period, provided that subject as the announcement of the Companys interim or final financial results for mentioned below the participant remains employed within the Group at any period.
The release date relating to any award will be determined by the Committee at the date the award is made but will in normal circumstances Awards may not be made more than ten years after the date of adoption of fall no less than nine years after the date of the award.
Specifically in the case of the initial awards to be granted under the Plan, the Vesting of awards and performance criteria release date is intended to be the ninth anniversary of the award date.
Awards made under the Plan will vest only if the performance conditions determined by the Committee are satisfied.
The Committee will determine The following table shows the expected performance measurement periods the performance conditions appropriate to each award at the date the award and vesting dates of the shares which would be released on the ninth is made and these will be specified in the award certificate.
anniversary of the award date: An award will not vest unless the specified performance conditions have Performance measurement period Vesting date been achieved and the participant is still an employee of the Company 20% 1 April 2003 - 31 March 2008 Fifth anniversary of the award date at the end of the relevant performance period.
20% 1 April 2003 - 31 March 2009 Sixth anniversary of the award date 20% 1 April 2003 - 31 March 2010 Seventh anniversary of the award date It is intended that the initial awards under the Plan will be subject to a 20% 1 April 2003 - 31 March 2011 Eighth anniversary of the award date performance measure based both on outperformance of IPD and the increase 20% 1 April 2003 - 31 March 2012 Ninth anniversary of the award date in the Companys net asset value plus dividends paid NAV measured over five separate periods running from 1 April 2003 up to 31 March in each of Cessation of employment 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
20% of the total available award shares In the event of the participant ceasing to be a director or employee of the will vest in full on the fifth anniversary of the award date provided the Group for any reason before an award has vested in full, the award will lapse participant remains employed at that time if the Companys NAV over the to the extent unvested.
In the event that a participant ceases to be a director five year period commencing on 1 April 2003 exceeds the increase in the retail or employee of the Group by reason of death, injury or disability, then any prices index RPI over the corresponding period by an average of 10% per shares in respect of which an award has vested shall be released to the annum compounded annually and the Company outperforms IPD over the participant or to the participants personal representatives as soon as same period.
The remaining 80% of the shares the subject of an award will reasonably practicable after such cessation.
In the event that a participant vest similarly by reference to the growth in the Companys NAV and ceases to be a director or employee of the Group for any reason other than performance relative to IPD over the four periods each commencing on death, injury or disability, then the Committee may, at its absolute QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 28 discretion, direct that some or all of any shares in respect of which an award otherwise disposes of the beneficial interest in any shares in the Company, has vested shall be released to the participant at such times and on such whether held on the date of the award or acquired thereafter, except where conditions as the Committee may determine.
the Committee gives its prior consent in writing to such disposal, provided that the participant shall be entitled to dispose of shares to the extent Change of control necessary to fund the purchase of further shares in the Company through If another company acquires control of the Company as a result of a general any share incentive scheme operated by the Company including this Plan offer for the whole of the issued share capital of the Company, award shares or any tax liability arising therefrom or to fund the take up of rights under which have vested will be released to the relevant participant immediately any rights issue of the Company.
upon such change of control.
To the extent that award shares have not vested prior to such change of control, the relevant award will lapse, save to Pensions the extent that either: Awards made under the Plan will not be pensionable.
a the acquiring company offers to exchange the award for an award in Variations of capital respect of its own shares of equal value, or The rights of a participant following any rights issue or capitalisation issue or b the Committee in its discretion determines that such unvested award other variation of capital will be adjusted in such manner as the Committee shares shall vest and the award shares so vested will be released immediately determines, subject where appropriate to written confirmation from the upon such change of control to the relevant participant.
In exercising its Companys auditors that the adjustment is, in their opinion, fair and discretion, the Committee will have regard to the period of time elapsed reasonable.
In the case of a rights issue where vested award shares are being between the date of the award and the change of control and to the held by a trust, the trustees should sell sufficient rights to enable the performance of the Company during that period.
remaining rights to be taken up and converted to shares.
These shares would also be held by the trustee for the participant and released at the same time If any participant is unfairly or wrongfully dismissed within six months of as the vested shares to which they relate.
a change of control and any unvested award of shares had lapsed on such change of control, such participant shall be entitled to receive from the Amendments Company a payment in cash of an amount equal to the value of the shares The Committee may make any amendments to the rules of the Plan, which would have been released to him had they been vested at the date of provided that amendments to certain important rules including those the change of control such value to be determined by reference to the value relating to the overall limit on the Plan, the individual limits and eligibility to of the Companys shares at the date of the change of control.
participate in the Plan to the advantage of participants may only be made with the sanction of the Company in general meeting except that There will be no acceleration of release if the change of control arises because shareholder approval is not required for minor amendments to obtain or of a group reorganisation or similar event.
maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, or future participants, or any company in the Group.
Plan limits No award may be made under the Plan to the extent that the maximum Termination number of shares to which such award relates, when aggregated with the The Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the date of its adoption maximum number of shares the subject of awards outstanding under the or on any such earlier date as the Committee may at any time prior to that Plan on the date the award is proposed to be made and the number of date determine, but the rights of existing participants will not be affected shares previously released under the Plan, exceeds 2.5% of the Companys thereby.
In the event of such termination, no further awards will be made issued ordinary share capital on the date the award is proposed to be made.
No award may be made under the Plan to any participant to the extent that the maximum number of shares to which such award relates, when aggregated with the maximum number of shares the subject of awards previously made to that participant and outstanding under the Plan on the date the award is proposed to be made and the number of shares previously By Order of the Board released to that participant under the Plan, exceeds 1% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital on the date the award is proposed to be made.
Lock-in arrangements An award shall lapse immediately both as to vested and unvested shares in David Pangbourne Chairman of Remuneration Committee the event that the relevant participant sells, transfers, charges, gifts or 4 June 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2003 29
