30 3i Report and accounts 2003 Remuneration report Introduction Although 3i is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index, its business operates exclusively within the venture capital sector.
The majority of the Companys competitors comprise either partnerships of individuals managing funds for investment on behalf of third parties or unquoted subsidiaries of larger banking or financial services groups.
Whilst the environment in financial markets has been tough, the venture capital market has continued to be well funded and, despite falling investment returns, competitor organisations have been able to offer substantial rewards for their staff and competition for quality, trained executives remains aggressive.
In addition to cash bonuses, remuneration structures in the venture capital market include share plans as well as carried interest or co-investment schemes, which allow executives to share directly in the future profits on investments subject normally to a variety of conditions relating to the performance of those investments.
It is against this challenging background that the Companys Remuneration Committee the Committee has had to formulate and implement its remuneration policy to ensure that the Company is able to continue to attract, retain and motivate management of the quality required to ensure the continued vibrancy and success of the business as a whole.
The Committee is also conscious of the need to align the interests of staff and shareholders.
One of the ways in which this is achieved is by encouraging the holding of the Companys shares by its staff.
The Companys policy has therefore been to provide long term incentives to its executives through share plans and, where appropriate, carried interest schemes.
At 31 March 2003 over 75% of the Companys UK staff were shareholders.
Remuneration Committee Composition and terms of reference The Committee consists only of independent non-executive Directors.
Its members throughout the year to 31 March 2003 the year were Dr J R Forrest the Committee Chairman, Baroness Hogg, Mr F D Rosenkranz and Mr O H J Stocken.
None of the members of the Committee sits with any other Director on the board of any other quoted company.
The Committees terms of reference take into account the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
Activities during the year The Committee met six times during the year to consider remuneration policy and to determine, on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration packages for each of the executive Directors.
In addition, the Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its costs.
Assistance to the Committee Persons who materially assisted the Committee with advice on Directors remuneration in the year were: Monks Partnership, an external remuneration consultant appointed by the Committee, the Groups Human Resources Director, Mr R B Gregory and except in relation to his own remuneration the Chief Executive, Mr B P Larcombe.
Mr Gregory was not appointed by the Committee.
Monks Partnership is part of  LLP.
During the year,  LLP provided the Groups investment business with taxation, payroll and corporate restructuring advice, due diligence services and the services of an employee on secondment.
Performance graphs The left hand graph below compares the Companys total shareholder return for the five financial years of the Company to 31 March 2003 with the total shareholder return of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Directors consider that since the Company invests in a broad range of industrial and commercial sectors the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate index against which to compare the Companys performance.
The right hand graph below compares the diluted net asset value per share at each of the last five financial year ends with dividends reinvested against the total shareholder return of the FTSE All-Share Index on those dates.
This has been included because changes in net asset value per share relative to the FTSE All-Share Index are an important indicator of the performance of the Companys assets.
3i total shareholder return versus FTSE All-Share total return 3i diluted NAV versus FTSE All-Share total return cumulative cumulative years ended 31 March years ended 31 March 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 1998 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 3i FTSE All-Share 3i diluted NAV with dividends reinvested FTSE All-Share
