BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Remuneration report Introduction to the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions.
No Director This report is made by the Board on the recommendation of the is present when his or her own remuneration is being discussed.
The first part of the report provides details The Remuneration Committee also meets without management and of BG Groups remuneration policy.
The second part provides details receives information and independent executive remuneration advice of the remuneration, service contracts and share interests of all the from an external consultancy firm, Towers Perrin, appointed by the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The report has been Remuneration Committee.
In relation to executive remuneration, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Towers Perrin provides market salary data and advice on market Remuneration Committee.
The Directors confirm that, in preparing trends, long-term incentive schemes and other remuneration issues.
this report, they have followed the principles of Schedule B of the In addition, Towers Perrin provides some general compensation Combined Code.
and benefits advice and information and is responsible for the a administration of some of the share schemes.
BG Group continues to look to performance related incentives rather than base salaries for employees to achieve above average reward.
Other external advisers also provide support and advice in relation Our remuneration policy is designed to ensure that executives of the to executive remuneration.
Herbert Smith provides legal advice and highest calibre are recruited and retained and that our strong assistance on share schemes as well as other legal services to the performance ethic is reinforced.
Group and Watson Wyatt provides actuarial advice to the Company a and to the trustees of the BG Pension Scheme.
These advisers are A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting appointed by management.
of the Company to be held on 21 May 2004 inviting them to approve this report.
Remuneration policy In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations BG Group needs to be able to employ and retain international 2002 the Regulations, the following sections of the report are employees of the highest calibre with the necessary skills, capabilities subject to audit: Directors Remuneration: Directors Interest under and experience to execute its business strategy and thereby deliver the BG Group New Long Term Incentive Scheme Phantom Shares : strong growth.
The catchment area for recruitment is increasingly Directors Interests in Shares under the BG Group New Long Term outside the UK and the required talent is scarce.
Incentive Scheme: Options: and the table and notes in the Pensions The overriding objectives of our remuneration policy are: section of the report.
The remaining sections are not subject to audit.
to enable the recruitment and retention of this limited resource: and REMUNERATION COMMITTEE to reinforce our strong performance ethic.
The Committees principal responsibilities are: Accordingly, the central premise of the policy is that, while reward arrangements should be market competitive, employees should look setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Companys overall remuneration policy and strategy: to performance related incentives rather than base salaries to achieve 59 above average reward.
Performance related incentive schemes form a setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration significant proportion of the total reward package for executives and packages for Executive Directors and the Chairman including are designed to align executives interests with those of shareholders terms and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and establish a clear link between pay and performance.
reviewing the salary structure and terms, conditions To implement our policy, we have a well-developed, company-wide and benefits of employment of other Group Executive performance management system and we operate three Committee members: and complementary performance related incentive schemes for executives.
approving the rules, and launch, of any Company share, share The three schemes are the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS, the Long option or cash based incentive scheme and the grant, award, Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and the Company Share Option Scheme allocation or issue of shares, share options or payments under CSOS.
The AIS is designed to focus executives on the business such scheme.
priorities for the financial year and to reinforce our individual The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee performance culture.
The aim of the LTIS is to motivate participants can be found on the BG Group website and copies are available b to maximise total shareholder return TSR as measured against a on request.
comparator group of international oil and gas companies over a period of three years.
The CSOS aims to drive real earnings growth over the The Committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive long term.
The mechanism used for measuring this is the growth in c Directors and meets on at least four occasions each year.
The members the Groups published earnings per share EPS relative to the growth are: Elwyn Eilledge Committee Chairman, Peter Backhouse, Sir John in the retail price index, excluding mortgage interest repayments Coles, Paul Collins and Dame Stella Rimington.
Sir Richard Giordano was RPIX.
Further details of the AIS, the LTIS and the CSOS can be found a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Company on on pages 60 to 62.
David Benson, Keith Mackrell and Lord Sharman were The varying performance periods and performance conditions of the members of the Committee until 12 February 2004.
Emma Nichol, three schemes combine and complement each other to enable the Company Secretary, attends meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
measurement and reward of both shortand long-term performance Frank Chapman Chief Executive, Peter Duffy Executive Vice President and of absolute AIS, sustained CSOS and comparative LTIS Human Resources, and Cathy Aldwinckle Head of Compensation and financial performance.
Benefits, attend meetings by invitation and provide advice and services a Other than in the provision of the services outlined above, none of Towers Perrin, c EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year excluding exceptional Herbert Smith or Watson Wyatt provides any services to the Group or has any items by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for connection with the Group.
EPS is published quarterly when BG Group reports its results.
b TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Remuneration report continued The Committee reviews the remuneration policy on a regular basis Base salaries and recommends changes as and when appropriate.
No changes are Executive Directors salaries are reviewed each year with any proposed to the policy this year in so far as it applies to Directors changes taking effect from 1 April.
This review takes into account remuneration.
However, the Company plans to review the use of the individual performance and market competitiveness.
Pensionable CSOS as the primary share based incentive vehicle for the broader salary is derived from base salary only.
employee population below senior management level.
In line with our remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee In defining BG Groups remuneration policy, the Remuneration benchmarks Executive Directors salaries against a comparator group.
Committee takes into account advice received from external consultants Given BG Groups international presence and position roughly in the and also best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder middle of the FTSE 50, the Remuneration Committee considered bodies, including the revised principles and guidelines on executive it appropriate to reference Executive Directors base salaries for remuneration issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI.
the 1 April 2003 salary review against the median of the FTSE 50.
We will use the same comparator group for the 1 April 2004 review.
Components of remuneration The current remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises Annual Incentive Scheme AIS performance related and non-performance related components.
The The Company operates a cash based annual incentive scheme, performance related components are the incentive schemes referred which provides an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to to above and the non-performance related components are base 100% of base salary.
salary, taxable benefits and pension entitlements.
In addition, the At the start of the incentive year 1 January, based on the Companys Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys business priorities, the Remuneration Committee sets both the all-employee share schemes.
Pay and employment conditions performance measures and the targets.
These targets ensure that elsewhere in the Group have been taken into account by the incentives at the higher end of the range are payable only for Remuneration Committee in determining the remuneration demonstrably superior Company and individual performance.
packages for Executive Directors and the Committee has also followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined Code.
For the Executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive Committee, the financial performance measures for The proportion of each Executive Directors total remuneration that the 2003 incentive year were EPS and return on average capital is performance related is significant even for target which is based a employed ROACE both such measures adjusted to take into on budget performance.
For stretch significantly above budget account the volatility of upstream commodity prices.
These performance, the total amount of remuneration payable is higher, measures adjusted to take into account both the volatility of as is the proportion of that total which is performance related.
US$ UK exchange rates and upstream commodity prices will In determining the relative importance of those elements of also apply for 2004. remuneration which are, and those which are not, performance 60 When determining incentive payments, the Remuneration related as required by the Regulations, we have, as last year, made Committee considers overall Group performance, including financial a number of assumptions on the Companys share price growth and performance and health, safety and environmental performance, TSR, relative to the Companys comparator group, over the next three as well as individual performance.
Payments in respect of the 2003 years.
Neither these assumptions nor our remuneration policy have incentive year were made in February 2004 based on 2003 results.
The average proportion of remuneration Payments under the AIS are non-pensionable.
excluding pension that is performance related for target performance is 58% and for stretch performance is 79%.
This is Long-term incentives Estimated Present Value EPV illustrated by the chart below.
These figures are different from last For the last two years, we have been using EPV as a measure year because we have excluded the value of pensions in calculating to describe the value, at the time of grant or allocation, of the proportion of fixed to variable pay.
Pension values can vary quite long-term incentives which may, or may not, pay out in the future.
significantly from year to year and from person to person and are This measure was developed by our external consultants, Towers shown separately on page 68.
Perrin, and takes account of the performance conditions and the risk that grants and allocations may be forfeited.
This EPV is then COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION PACKAGE used to determine the appropriate levels of face value CSOS grants FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AVERAGE and LTIS allocations.
as a % of total remuneration As agreed by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting in 2002, Target performance Stretch performance the Remuneration Committee is able to make awards under both schemes, up to a maximum combined EPV of 175% of base salary 79% 58% each year.
The actual maximum combined EPV granted during 2003 42% 21% was slightly less than 140%.
Each year, the Remuneration Committee decides on the appropriate blend of CSOS grants and LTIS allocations that will be made to Executive Directors within the maximum combined EPV.
Awards will always be made under both schemes, with not less than one-third Non-performance related pay and not more than two-thirds of the total combined EPV being Performance related pay delivered by either scheme.
When making this decision, the Remuneration Committee takes a number of factors into consideration a Average capital employed consists of total shareholders funds plus net borrowings averaged between the start and end of year.
ROACE represents profit before tax excluding exceptional items plus net interest payable on net borrowings as a percentage of average capital employed.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 including cost, the need to remain within scheme dilution limits These performance conditions are illustrated by the graph below: and the performance conditions considered to be key to BG Groups LTIS PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS strategy at the time of the allocation or grant.
For the 2003 awards, % of allocated shares transferred the Executive Directors received two-thirds of the total combined EPV through the LTIS and one-third through the CSOS.
100 Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS A limited number of employees are allocated Company shares 75 under the LTIS.
This allocation marks the beginning of a three year performance period.
The Companys TSR performance against that of a comparator group over the three year period will determine what proportion of the allocated shares will be transferred into 40 the ownership of the employee.
The Remuneration Committee 30 considers that measuring performance against a comparator group of companies ensures that executives are rewarded based on BG Groups performance relative to the performance of the 0 other companies in the comparator group.
The TSR performance M UQ T is measured by the independent TSR monitoring service of TSR position Alithos Limited.
2002 & 2003 allocations 2001 allocations The LTIS comparator group for the 2002 and 2003 allocations comprises 21 international oil and gas companies including BG Group plc of which 12 are headquartered in the USA, three in the UK There is no retest provision.
In the event of a change of control, a and six elsewhere in Europe.
This group has been chosen because vesting of shares under the LTIS is not automatic and would depend the Remuneration Committee believes that it comprises our major upon the extent to which the performance conditions had been met business competitors in other words, those companies against at the time.
which BG Group is compared by shareholders.
Shares allocated under the 1999 LTIS scheme were transferred The other companies in the comparator group are as follows: to eligible employees on 1 October 2003 when the one year retention period ended.
The performance period for the 2000 allocation ended Amerada Hess El Paso Corporation Repsol YPF SA on 30 September 2003.
BG Groups final position in the comparator Corporation group meant that 52% of the original allocation of shares was put Anadarko Petroleum ENI SpA Royal Dutch 61 into trust on behalf of participating employees.
Subject to the rules Corporation Petroleum Co. of the LTIS, these shares will be transferred to those employees at BP plc ExxonMobil Shell Transport & the end of the retention period in October 2004.
Corporation Trading Co. plc The one year retention period also applies for the 2001 allocation but Burlington Kerr-McGee Statoil ASA there is no retention period for the 2002 and 2003 LTIS allocations.
Corporation ChevronTexaco Marathon Oil Total SA Company Share Option Scheme CSOS Corporation Corporation Approximately 1 300 employees are currently eligible to participate ConocoPhillips Norsk Hydro ASA Unocal Corporation in the CSOS including UK payroll employees and overseas employees Duke Energy Occidental Petroleum above a certain level of seniority.
Corporation Corporation The Company grants an option over its shares to each eligible employee and the option price is set at the fair market value at the The Remuneration Committee has set the following performance time of the grant.
As described below, the CSOS measures conditions: performance according to EPS growth relative to the growth in RPIX.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the inclusion of an EPS TSR position in comparator group % of allocated shares transferred performance measure ensures that executives receive rewards only 2001 allocation 2002 & 2003 allocations when the Company has achieved sustained earnings growth during Top 100 100 the performance period.
To the extent that the performance target Upper Quartile 100 75 has been met three years from the date of grant, the option may be Median 40 30 exercised in whole or in part at any time up to the expiry of ten Below Median All allocated shares are forfeited years from the date of grant.
As in 2002, the levels of grant made to individual employees during Where performance is between Median M and Upper Quartile UQ, 2003 were differentiated based on each individuals performance to or for the 2002 and 2003 allocations only between UQ and Top T, date and expectation of future contributions.
For the 2003 grant, the the percentage of shares to be transferred is determined on a Remuneration Committee set the following performance targets: proportionate basis.
a A different comparator group was used for the 2001 allocation.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Remuneration report continued a Partnership Shares EPS growth over RPIX % of option that is exercisable over 3 years Eligible employees are offered the opportunity to buy Company 30% or greater 100% shares from pre-tax earnings as part of a regular share purchase plan.
Shares are currently purchased every six months using 15% 50% employees accumulated deductions and are placed in trust.
less than 15% Option is forfeited The fifth Partnership Share purchase was made on 20 October 2003.
At 31 December 2003, 60% of eligible employees were participating A proportion of between half and all of the option will be exercisable in this plan, contributing an average monthly payment of 105. if the Company achieves EPS growth over three years of RPIX plus Of those participating, 74% were contributing the maximum between 15% and 30%.
These are the same as the targets which apply to the 2001 and 2002 b Free Shares grants and are considered by the Remuneration Committee to be A Free Shares award of 1 196 shares was made on 7 April 2003 to all particularly demanding.
These performance targets are illustrated by eligible employees in the UK based on the Groups performance the graph below.
These shares will be held in trust for up to five years.
CSOS PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS For 2003, the Remuneration Committee may make awards of Free % of option exercisable Shares in the Company up to a value of 3 000 the statutory limit for each individual.
All eligible employees will receive the same 100 number of shares.
This number will be determined based on the extent to which the Company has met the agreed profit targets for 2003.
Sharesave Scheme 50 The Company continued to operate the BG Group Sharesave Scheme in 2003.
The scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue and provides for eligible employees to acquire the Companys shares with the proceeds of a monthly savings contract.
The contract period is three or five years.
At 31 December 2003, 83% of eligible employees were participating in the Sharesave Scheme, contributing an average 0 monthly payment of 211.
Of those participating, 70% were 0 15% 30% contributing the maximum of 250 per month.
% EPS growth over three years in excess of RPIX 62 Employee Profit Sharing Scheme Fixed point retesting is allowed in years four and five but, in this This scheme ceased to operate at the end of 2000.
During 2003, event, EPS growth of RPIX plus 40% or plus 50% respectively must shares allocated to participants in respect of the 1999 scheme were be achieved for all of the option to become exercisable.
At the end released and transferred into their names.
of year five, the option will be exercisable only to the extent that Shares held in respect of the 2000 scheme will be released to eligible the performance conditions have been met.
Committee is sensitive to the current corporate governance climate on the matter of retesting.
However, it considers, particularly in light Dilution of the macroeconomic factors which affect the business, that a The ABI has recently published guidelines relating to the disclosure combination of genuinely stretching performance conditions and of the percentage of a companys issued share capital that can be the ability to retest those conditions ensures that management is issued to employees under share schemes.
In the event of all shares motivated to achieve, and appropriately rewarded for, long-term outstanding as at 31 December 2003, under option schemes Company performance.
The Committee will review the position involving the issue of new shares becoming exercisable, the resulting again at the time of making further grants in 2004. issue of shares would represent less than 1.33% of the issued share In the event of a change of control, exercise of the option under the capital as at that date.
CSOS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the performance conditions had been met at the time.
Shareholding guidelines Shareholding guidelines exist for Executive Directors, Group Over the three year performance period for the 2000 CS0S grant, the Executive Committee members and certain other senior employees Companys EPS growth above the growth in the RPIX exceeded 30%.
to encourage substantial long-term share ownership.
These require As a result, 100% of the shares under option granted to employees in that, over a period of five years from the introduction of the November 2000 are exercisable prior to November 2010. guidelines in 2002 or the Directors appointment, if later, Executive Directors build up, and then retain, a holding of shares with a value All-Employee Share Schemes equivalent to twice base salary.
The required holding for other In order to encourage share ownership, the Company currently members of the Group Executive Committee is one-times base provides two all-employee share schemes for its UK employees, salary and for certain other senior employees is half base salary.
the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave Scheme.
The guidelines require that, in relation to the 2002 and later LTIS allocations, vested shares net of tax should be retained by the Share Incentive Plan SIP individual until the required shareholding level is reached.
The BG Group SIP is approved by the Inland Revenue.
There are two parts to the SIP the Partnership Shares Plan and the Free Shares Plan.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Service contracts Chairman The Executive Directors service contracts, including arrangements Sir Richard Giordano had an employment contract with the for early termination, are carefully considered by the Remuneration Company.
Sir Richard gave notice of resignation on 30 June 2003 and Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate his employment was terminated by agreement with the Company Directors of the quality required to manage the Company.
The when he retired as Chairman on 31 December 2003.
His employment Remuneration Committee considers that a notice period of one contract contained a notice period of one year or, at the Companys year is appropriate.
discretion, payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, upon termination of his employment, Sir Richard became entitled under his contract of The Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control employment to a payment equivalent to the cost of providing an provisions.
Should the Directors employment be terminated within office with full-time secretary and use of a car and driver at a 12 months of a change of control, they are entitled to liquidated a location of his choice for a period of five years.
The amount of liquidated damages is equal to one years gross salary and a credit of one years pensionable service less any Sir Robert Wilson was appointed as Chairman with effect from deductions the employer is required to make, which the 1 January 2004.
In line with the other non-executive Directors, Remuneration Committee considers to be a genuine pre-estimate of Sir Roberts appointment is for an initial three year period and there loss.
The Remuneration Committee considers that these provisions is no notice period and no provision for payment in the event of early assist with recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is termination.
Sir Robert Wilson is paid a fee of 500 000 per annum, therefore in the best interests of shareholders.
which is next subject to review in July 2005.
Other than change of control, the Executive Directors service Performance graph contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the event The graph below shows BG Groups total shareholder return of early termination.
When calculating termination payments the performance since listing calculated in accordance with the Remuneration Committee takes into account a variety of factors, Regulations against the performance of the FTSE 100.
We have including individual and Company performance, the obligation chosen the FTSE 100 because this is a recognised broad equity for the Director to mitigate his or her own loss for example, by market index of which the Company is a member.
gaining new employment and the Directors age and length of service.
Further details of the Executive Directors service HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE contracts can be found on pages 64 and 65.
Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over period since listing of BG Group plc shares on 13 December 1999 Non-Executive Directors The Board aims to recruit non-executive Directors of a high calibre 140 with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
120 Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the 63 recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
Their 100 appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following 80 their appointment.
They are generally reappointed for a second term 60 of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
There is no notice period and no provision for termination payments.
The terms 40 of engagement of the non-executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
20 Non-executive Directors other than the Chairman are paid a basic 0 fee of 50 000 per annum.
Additional fees are also payable, for 13 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 1999 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 example, for chairing a committee of the Board or acting as Deputy BG Group based on spot values Chairman.
The fees were last reviewed in July 2003, taking into FTSE 100 based on spot values account increased workload and market movements.
The next fee review will be in 2004 and fees will be reviewed annually thereafter.
Source: Towers Perrin Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
a Details of amounts paid to Sir Richard Giordano on termination of his employment contract can be found on page 64.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Remuneration report continued The following section provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share interests of all the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2003.
b Appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004. c Each non-executive Director, other than Sir Richard Giordano, was paid a fee of 35 000 per annum until 30 June 2003.
From 1 July 2003, this increased to 50 000 per annum.
Each non-executive Director who chairs a committee of the Board received an additional fee of 7 500 per annum until 30 June 2003.
From 1 July 2003, this increased to 10 000 per annum.
In 2003, each non-executive Director, other than Sir Richard Giordano and Keith Mackrell, received a payment of 5 000 in respect of overseas trips.
d Bonus figures for 2002 represent payments under the AIS in respect of 2002 which were made in April 2003.
Bonus figures for 2003 represent payments under the AIS in respect of 2003 which were made in February 2004. e Salary figures for Executive Directors, other than Ashley Almanza, for 2002 and for all Executive Directors for 2003 include Free Shares to the value of 2 998 received under the SIP in May 2002 and April 2003 respectively.
In 2004, Ashley Almanza, Frank Chapman and William Friedrich will be eligible to receive up to a further 3 000 worth of 64 Free Shares under the SIP.
f Salary figures for Ashley Almanza for both 2002 and 2003 include a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
Frank Chapman had a cash allowance in lieu of a company car from October 2003 and the value of this is included in his salary figure for 2003. g Sir Richard Giordano and William Friedrich, who are US citizens, are covered by long-term care insurance if they return to the USA.
The value of the taxable benefit for 2003 was 19 383 for Sir Richard Giordano and 10 208 for William Friedrich.
Cover is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002. h Keith Mackrell is Deputy Chairman of the Company, for which he receives 65 000 per annum in addition to his fee as a non-executive Director.
i Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003.
His contract of employment provided that, for the duration of his Chairmanship, he was entitled to the use of a car and driver.
He was also entitled to accident and private medical insurance upon terms agreed by the Board of the Company and the Company paid reasonable fees incurred by his tax advisers.
Sir Richard gave notice of his resignation on 30 June 2003.
His employment terminated by agreement on 31 December 2003 and the Company paid him the sum of 250 000 in lieu of basic salary for the balance of his one year notice entitlement.
In addition, the Company paid Sir Richard the sum of 970 000, representing the cost of providing an office with full-time secretary and use of a car and driver in New York for a period of five years in accordance with his contract of employment.
The Company will continue to pay reasonable fees incurred by his tax advisers and, as provided in his contract of employment, this benefit will continue for a period of two years following the cessation of his employment.
Sir Richard will also continue to be entitled to accident and private medical insurance and long-term care insurance.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of the employment contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below.
Compensation payable Contract Unexpired Notice upon early date term period termination a Ashley Almanza 01 Aug 02 rolling 1yr 1yr n a Frank Chapman 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a William Friedrich 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a a Other than the change of control provisions see page 65, the Executive Directors employment contracts do not contain provisions for compensation payable upon early termination.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Change of Control As described on page 63, the Executive Directors employment contracts contain change of control provisions.
For the purposes of these provisions, a change of control is deemed to occur if the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company: or if 50% or more of the voting rights of the Company or the right to appoint or remove the majority of the Board of the Company become vested in any individual or body or group of individuals or bodies acting in concert: or if all or substantially all of the business, assets and undertakings of the Company become owned by any person, firm or company other than a subsidiary or associated company.
A change of control is also deemed to occur if the whole of the issued capital of BG Energy Holdings Limited or a substantial part of the undertaking of that company including its subsidiaries is transferred to another company unless that transferee company is a subsidiary of the Company, or a company ultimately owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the ultimate owners of the Company.
However, a change of control does not occur if and only if through a process of reconstruction the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the shareholders of the Company.
The Executive Directors employment contracts provide that any payments made pursuant to these provisions will be made less any deductions the employer is required to make and shall be in full and final settlement of any claims the Executive Director may have against the employer or any associated company arising out of the termination of employment except for any personal injury claim, any claim in respect of accrued pension rights or statutory employment protection claims.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Date of letter Unexpired of appointment term a Sir Robert Wilson 30 Jun 03 2yrs 10mths b Peter Backhouse 5 Mar 04 3yrs 2mths c David Benson 18 Feb 03 2yrs 2mths Sir John Coles 15 Feb 03 2yrs 2mths b Paul Collins 2 Mar 04 3yrs 2mths Elwyn Eilledge 17 Feb 03 2yrs 2mths b Keith Mackrell 4 Mar 04 1yr 2mths Dame Stella Rimington 15 Feb 03 2yrs 2mths b Lord Sharman 25 Feb 04 3yrs 2mths Former Chairman d Sir Richard Giordano 18 Apr 01 n a 65 The non-executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain any notice period or provision for compensation in the event of early termination of their appointment.
a Sir Robert Wilson was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004.
His unexpired term is subject to re-election by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
b Peter Backhouse, Paul Collins and Lord Sharman have been appointed for a further three year term, commencing on the date of the 2004 AGM, subject to re-election by shareholders at that AGM.
Keith Mackrells appointment is for a term of one year from the date of the 2004 AGM, subject to re-election by shareholders at that AGM.
c David Benson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2004 AGM.
d Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003.
Sir Richard had an employment contract with the Company which provided for a notice period of one year or, at the Companys discretion, payment in lieu of notice.
Details of the amounts paid to Sir Richard on his retirement are set out in footnote j to the Directors Remuneration Table on page 64.
DIRECTORS INTEREST UNDER THE BG GROUP NEW LONG TERM INCENTIVE SCHEME PHANTOM SHARES Notional Notional Phantom Notional Market allocation phantom shares allocation price of phantom shares added vested End of of phantom at date shares as at during during performance Vesting Value shares as at Award date of award 1 Jan 2003 the year b the year period date vested 31 Dec 2003 a c William Friedrich 01 Oct 99 2.4573 46 586 845 47 431 30 Sep 02 01 Oct 03 123 558 0 a This entitlement was established prior to demerger and William Friedrichs appointment as an Executive Director of the Company.
The notional allocation was reconstituted after demerger using the average share prices of the first ten days of trading of the shares of the Company and Lattice Group plc immediately following demerger, as proportions of the aggregate of the two to produce the appropriate factors for adjustment.
As a result, the initial allocation price was decreased from 3.7646 to 2.4573 and the initial allocation was increased by a factor of 1.532008.
As a result of the performance criteria measured in October 2002 which were identical to those applied to 1999 allocations under the LTIS a gross amount equivalent to the market value of 47 431 shares was paid to William Friedrich on 1 October 2003 when the retention period ended.
b These notional shares were added on the vesting date to reflect the reinvestment of dividends paid on shares held in trust under the LTIS during the retention period.
c The market price on 1 October 2003 was 2.605.
As a result, the initial allocation price was decreased from 3.7646 to 2.4573 and the initial allocation was increased by a factor of 1.532008 in the BG Group New Long Term Incentive Scheme.
As a result of the performance criteria measured in October 2002, 46% of this notional allocation of shares was transferred to the Executive Directors on 1 October 2003 when the retention period ended.
The remainder of the allocation was forfeited.
b As a result of the performance criteria measured in November 2003, 52% of the November 2000 notional allocation is now subject to the one year retention period the remainder of the allocation having lapsed during the year.
These shares will be transferred to the Executive Directors on 3 November 2004, when the retention period ends.
c Dividends paid on shares held in trust may, at the discretion of the trustees, be reinvested in BG Group plc shares by the trustees and held on behalf of the Executive Directors until the normal release date of the respective allocations.
The market price at the dates of reinvestment during 2003 were as follows: 2 May 2003 2.5025 and 12 September 2003 2.6725.
On 23 December 2002, the trustees reinvested dividends as follows: Ashley Almanza 33 shares, Frank Chapman 449 shares and William Friedrich 309 shares.
These shares were transferred at the release date and are included in the number of shares vested during the year.
d The transfer of shares is dependent on the achievement of performance criteria at the end of a three year performance period.
In the case of awards made in 1999, 2000 and 2001, there is a retention period of one year following the end of that performance period.
No retention period applies to awards made in 2002 and 2003.
The performance conditions for the scheme are set out on page 61. e The market price on 1 October 2003 was 2.605.
The Directors also have a deemed beneficial interest in 2 561 801 shares as potential beneficiaries in the BG Group New Employees Share Trust.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES None of the Executive Directors hold options under the Executive Share Option Scheme and no grants have been made under that scheme since 1994.
OPTIONS The number of share options held by the Directors under the BG Group Sharesave Scheme was as follows: Options Options Earliest as at as at normal 1 Jan Lapsed 31 Dec Exercise exercise Expiry 2003 in year 2003 a price date date Ashley Almanza 4 230 4 230 2.29 Mar 04 Sep 04 Frank Chapman 4 286 4 286 2.26 Nov 04 May 05 William Friedrich 7 368 7 368 2.29 Mar 06 Sep 06 a No options were exercised or granted during the year.
The performance measure for the Scheme is set out on page 62.
The closing price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2003 was 2.8675.
The range during the year was 2.8675 high and 2.22 low.
All market price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
ORDINARY SHARES The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the financial year were as follows: Beneficial interests in ordinary shares a As at As at 1 Jan 2003 31 Dec 2003 Sir Robert Wilson 12 000 32 000 Ashley Almanza 20 760 25 889 Frank Chapman 221 326 223 117 67 b William Friedrich 212 685 245 776 Peter Backhouse 20 500 20 500 David Benson 8 000 8 000 Sir John Coles 5 829 5 829 c Paul Collins 100 000 100 000 Elwyn Eilledge 9 443 9 443 Keith Mackrell 10 148 10 148 Dame Stella Rimington 3 751 3 751 Lord Sharman 1 956 1 956 Former Chairman d Sir Richard Giordano 128 100 128 100 a Beneficial interests including shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group Employee Profit Sharing Scheme and the BG Group Share Incentive Plan.
b William Friedrich holds 64 215 ordinary shares in the form of 12 843 American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Each ADR represents five ordinary shares.
c Paul Collins holding is in the form of 20 000 ADRs.
d Sir Richard Giordano holds 88 885 ordinary shares in the form of 17 777 ADRs.
Sir Richard retired as non-executive Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Remuneration report continued OTHER INTERESTS On 18 February 2004, Sir Robert Wilson purchased 28 000 ordinary shares in the Company.
Other than this, there have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings between 1 January 2004 and 5 March 2004.
As of 5 March 2004, the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company represent less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
PENSIONS Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza were members of the BG Pension Scheme throughout the year.
The benefits provided for them under the BG Pension Scheme are subject to the earnings cap, which is a restriction on the amount of pay that can be used to calculate pensions payable from a UK tax approved pension scheme.
Consequently, retirement benefits including contingent death benefits that are not covered by the BG Pension Scheme are provided by the Company under an unapproved arrangement, the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme.
Provision has been made in respect of the additional obligations for these post-retirement benefits.
The arrangements for all the Executive Directors have not changed during the year.
They provide an accrual of benefits designed to target a pension equivalent to two-thirds of their final 12 months salary on retirement from BG Group at age 60, inclusive of retained benefits.
As for all members of the BG Pension Scheme, if the Company consents to retirement, no actuarial reduction is applied to pensions payable from age 55, provided 10 years service has been completed with the Group which includes pensionable service transferred from previous employment.
Pensions in payment are increased in line with retail price inflation.
An adult dependants pension is payable on death in service, equal to two-thirds of that payable to the pension scheme member based on potential service to retirement age.
On death in retirement, an adult dependants pension is payable equal to two-thirds of the members pension prior to exchanging any of it for a cash lump sum.
Directors pension provisions were as follows: Increase in accrued Total Directors annual pension accrued contributions in year to annual in year to 31 Dec 2003 pension at 31 Dec 2003 Age at 000 pa 31 Dec 2003 Retirement 000 31 Dec 2003 a b 000 pa age Ashley Almanza 10 40 26 25 54 60 Frank Chapman 15 50 44 41 254 60 William Friedrich 15 54 40 37 235 60 68 a Actual increase.
b Increase net of price inflation.
Transfer value of Transfer value of accrued pension as accrued pension as Increase in transfer at 31 Dec 2002 at 31 Dec 2003 value over the year less a a Directors own contributions 000 000 000 Ashley Almanza 240 468 218 Frank Chapman 2 667 3 487 806 William Friedrich 2 823 3 749 912 a The transfer values shown at the end of 2002 and 2003 represent the value of each Executive Directors accrued pension based on total service completed to the relevant date.
The accrued pensions are the amounts that would have been paid if the Executive Director had left service at the relevant date.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN 11 issued by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, it is Company policy to allow each of them to accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another company, the fees for which would be retained by the individual Director.
By order of the Board Elwyn Eilledge Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 March 2004 Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
