Directors Remuneration Report For the Year Ended 31 December 2003 This report has been prepared pursuant to the Directors Remuneration to encourage and reward superior business performance.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules issued by the Financial for executive directors is intended to reward both individual and Services Authority.
company performance, measured against performance criteria that are relevant and realistic but also challenging, so that good performance is encouraged.
Therefore, remuneration arrangements will continue to Remuneration Committee focus on incentive plans that encourage delivery of operating plans as Role well as shareholder value, rather than just annual salary.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible, pursuant to a policy framework on executive remuneration agreed Also, under Committee guidelines, each executive director is required by the Board, for determining the pay and benets and contractual to build up over a period of five years and retain, whilst a director, a arrangements for the Chairman, executive directors and the Company minimum holding of shares in the Company equivalent to his annual Secretary, and for overseeing the Groups Share Schemes.
Committee also recommends and monitors the structure and levels of For 2004 and beyond, annual salary will continue to be set at levels remuneration for Senior Managers throughout the Group.
It operates not normally exceeding market median, to remain competitive in the under the delegated authority of the Board and its Terms of Reference market place, whilst bonuses and long term incentive plans will reect are available to view on the Groups website www.
market upper quartile competitive levels and be based on delivery of targets and Total Shareholder Return TSR.
It is committed to principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements demonstrate a clear Performance Graph link between reward and performance.
In its work, the Committee The performance graph below shows the Companys performance considers fully the principles and provisions of the Combined Code in comparison with the FTSE 100 Index over the five years ended on Corporate Governance.
The FTSE Index was chosen as it is a broad equity Membership market index consisting of companies of similar complexity and size The Committee comprises the following non-executive directors: to the Company.
Mr M P S Barton TSR Performance: Committee Chairman and senior independent non-executive director Alliance & Leicester v FTSE 100, 01.01.1999 31.12.2003 Mr M J Allen 130 TSR Total Shareholder Return, The Hon D Brougham i. e. movement in share price plus reinvested dividends 120 Miss F A Cairncross Alliance & Leicester plc Mr R M McTighe 110 FTSE 100 Mr E J Watts 100 Mr J R Windeler resigned from the Committee on 25 September 2003.
90 Mr R M McTighe and Mr E J Watts were appointed members of the 80 Committee on 30 October 2003.
All other members of the Committee served throughout 2003.
70 The Company Secretary, Mr J Hepplewhite, acted as secretary to the '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 Committee throughout 2003, and provided professional assistance to the Committee on governance issues.
Mr T S Lloyd replaced Remuneration for Executive Directors Mr Hepplewhite on his retirement on 31 December 2003.
The main components of the remuneration package for executive Meetings directors are: The directors attendance at Committee meetings held during their Basic Salary period of membership and the number of meetings held during 2003 Basic salary for executive directors takes into account the role, is set out on page 38.
The Chairman, Mr J R Windeler and the Group responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
This is Chief Executive, Mr R A Pym are invited to attend the Committee normally reviewed annually unless responsibilities change.
Salary levels meetings, except when the Committee discusses matters relating are set against background information from independent advisers on to their remuneration.
salary levels for similar positions amongst a specic comparator group Advisers of financial organisations and with due regard to general salary trends The Committee used the services of both Towers Perrin and Watson within companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The current comparator Wyatt during the year, to provide general remuneration advice and group comprises: comparator information, and Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer to advise specically on pension related issues.
Deloitte & Abbey National plc Aviva plc Touche LLP, the Companys external auditor, was appointed by the Barclays Bank plc Bradford & Bingley plc Company, during the year, with the agreement of the Committee, Britannic Assurance plc Friends Provident plc to provide specialist advice on the Groups Share Schemes.
Freshelds, HBOS plc HSBC Holdings plc Solicitors, provided advice on Directors service agreements.
Mercer Legal & General plc Lloyds TSB Group plc also act as actuaries and advisers to the Groups pension scheme Northern Rock plc Prudential plc and advise the Company on matters relating to its operation.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Standard Chartered plc The Committee consults with the Chairman and the Group Chief As at 31 December 2003, the comparator group included Egg plc Executive as appropriate, and is also supported by the Director of and Zurich Financial Services instead of Standard Chartered plc and Human Resources.
Annual Bonus Remuneration Policy The broad policy of the Group Board and the Committee remains to At the discretion of the Committee, executive directors are eligible set remuneration so as to attract and retain high calibre executives and to receive an annual performance bonus.
28 Alliance & Leicester Bonuses are contingent on achievement of one-year performance targets Long Term Incentive Scheme set annually by the Committee.
These comprise a mix of corporate targets Deferred Bonus Scheme revenue growth, cost reduction, pre-tax profit and growth in earnings Under the Alliance & Leicester Deferred Bonus Scheme, the Company per share EPS and individual personal performance targets.
The level may match an award of deferred shares on the basis of up to three of bonus for on-target performance for 2003 and beyond is 60% of salary, matched shares for each deferred share awarded.
The maximum with a maximum of 200% of salary for exceptional performance amounts matched award is given for upper quartile performance in terms of over 100% of salary are taken in the form of deferred shares under the Total Shareholder Return measured relative to a peer group of Retail Deferred Bonus Scheme see below, but without any matching element.
Total Shareholder Return measures the change in value of a Bonuses are discretionary and are non-pensionable.
share and reinvested income over the period of measurement.
The In order to encourage executive directors to build up a significant current constituents of the peer group, excluding the Company, are: personal stake in the Company, they may be required to receive Abbey National plc Barclays Bank plc one-quarter of their annual bonus in the form of a deferred shares Bradford & Bingley plc HBOS plc option award which the Company will match if related performance Lloyds TSB Group plc Northern Rock plc criteria are achieved see below under Long Term Incentive Schemes.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Executive directors are able to voluntarily defer up to 100% of their These banks have been chosen because they are all in the financial annual bonus to a maximum of 100% of salary for this purpose.
services sector and are broadly comparable in the range of activities This also acts as a retention tool and ensures executive directors share undertaken.
Awards only begin to vest when median performance a significant level of personal risk with the Companys shareholders.
relative to the peer group is achieved, with linear progression from The rights to deferred shares cannot normally be exercised for three years and lapse if not exercised within seven years.
If a director leaves one matching share at median performance up to three matching shares for upper quartile performance.
The rights to matching shares before the third anniversary of the grant, the Trustees to the Scheme may exercise their discretion in allowing the options over deferred cannot normally be exercised for three years and lapse if not exercised within seven years.
Total Shareholder Return is considered by the shares to be exercised.
Deferred shares are not awarded within two years of an individuals 60th birthday.
Committee to be a suitable measure for this type of scheme, as it provides clear links with the creation of shareholder value.
Further There are share schemes for executive directors designed to align the details are set out on page 34. interests of executive directors with those of shareholders: Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme options may be exercised prior Share Options to the third anniversary of the date of grant where the executive Each executive director is eligible for the grant of options under the director ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, ill-health, Alliance & Leicester Approved and Unapproved Company Share Option disability, retirement or at the discretion of the Trustees to the Scheme Schemes.
The price at which shares can be acquired on exercise of based on the recommendations by the Committee in any other options is the market value of the shares on the day prior to the date circumstances.
Performance conditions apply unless waived by the of grant.
Accordingly, the share price has to rise above the price at Committee and are normally subject to a three-year performance which the option is granted before an executive director can benefit.
The aggregate value of new shares, for which options to subscribe Employee Share Schemes may be granted to each executive director in any year, cannot normally Executive directors may also participate in the Companys existing exceed a maximum total annual award of two times basic salary, with Employee Share Schemes, including the Savings Related Share Option a power for the Committee to increase this up to four times basic salary Scheme and the Companys Share Incentive Plan, on the same basis as if it considers that this is warranted in exceptional circumstances.
There are no performance conditions attached to The value of share option grants has typically been valued at up to these schemes.
one and a half times basic salary two times for new appointments, Pensions with the grants being made in two tranches following the final and Executive directors are members of the Dened benefit Section of the interim results.
Options cannot normally be exercised for three years Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme which has a normal retirement from the date of grant.
The performance condition applied to grants age of 60. is that options are exercisable if the percentage growth in EPS exceeds the increase in the Retail Price Index RPI by at least 9% over a three The main features of the pension promise for executive directors based year period grants, prior to 2002, have used a percentage between on the standard terms of the Scheme, are: 6% and 9%.
The Committee reviews this condition before each new a Pensions from age 60 of 1 60th of basic salary averaged over grant paying due regard to market practice.
The Committee considers the last twelve months prior to retirement for each year of this performance condition to be suitable and appropriate as a means pensionable service.
of focusing executive directors on generating earnings growth and accords with market practice.
No options are awarded within two b A cash benefit on death in service of 4x annual rate of basic salary years of an individuals 60th birthday.
Options normally vest after three years, subject to attainment of the c Pensions payable in the event of ill-health.
Provisions exist for the re-testing of d Pensions for dependants on a members death are generally performance after years four and five, calculated from the base grant equal to half the members prospective retirement pension at year and based on EPS growth of RPI 12% year 4 or RPI 15% 60 on death in service, or half the members pension entitlement year 5.
Options granted prior to 2002 are subject to performance on death in retirement.
conditions that may be measured over any three year period.
Member contributions are 5% of basic salary.
Under the rules of the share option schemes, options are exercisable prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant where an option The following directors have special arrangements: holder ceases to be employed by the Company by reason of death, a Mr Pym and Mr Bennett are entitled to a pension of 2 3rd of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement or transfer of the their final pensionable salary on retirement at age 60 inclusive employing company outside the Group, or at the discretion of the of retirement benets from service at other organisations.
Committee in any other circumstances.
Also, in these circumstances, any performance conditions attaching to the exercise of the options b Mr Pym is not required to contribute.
Mr Bennett contributes 15% cease to apply.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 29 Directors Remuneration Report continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2003 There is an unfunded unapproved pension arrangement to increase New non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of two the pension and lump sum life assurance benefit to the level promised, years, which may be renewed for one or more terms of two years.
An where, because of Inland Revenue limitations including those resulting example of a non-executive directors letter of appointment can be from the Earnings Cap, these cannot be paid in total from the Scheme.
found on the Groups web site www.
co. uk Such arrangements apply to Mr Pym and Mr Bennett.
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early On retirement from service an executive director may, with the consent termination of an appointment.
The non-executive directors are not of the employer, draw his accrued pension from the Alliance & Leicester eligible for share options.
Pension Scheme at any time after his 50th birthday subject to a Details of appointment periods appear below: reduction of 3% for each year by which retirement precedes his 60th birthday.
Date of current appointment Pensions in payment are subject to contractual increases each April or reappointment Expiry Date Notice Period in line with the annual percentage rise in the RPI over the previous J R Windeler 1 June 2002 1 June 2005 None calendar year, subject to a maximum of 5%.
M J Allen 1 January 2003 1 January 2005 None It is confirmed that there are no discretionary practices which are M P S Barton 13 May 2003 13 May 2005 None taken into account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
The Hon D Brougham 8 May 2003 8 May 2005 None Other Benefits F A Cairncross 1 January 2004 1 January 2006 None Executive directors are eligible for a range of benets which include R M McTighe 1 June 2003 1 June 2005 None the provision of a company car, payment of car operating expenses E J Watts 8 May 2003 8 May 2005 None including fuel, concessionary mortgage facilities, life assurance and P J Stone 1 October 2003 1 October 2005 None membership of a private medical insurance scheme.
J V Barker 1 January 2004 1 January 2006 None Other Directorships which may follow earlier renewals.
The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take one non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted company in order to Executive directors have service contracts that continue until terminated broaden their experience.
They are entitled to retain any fees they may by twelve months notice but which in any event terminate on their receive.
During the year, Mr R A Pym held a non-executive directorship 60th birthday.
with Selfridges plc, until his resignation on 29 August 2003.
His fees for During the year the executive directors agreed to a revision of the the period were 22,917. terms relating to termination, without payment of any compensation.
The new contractual provisions state that, if the employment of an Remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors executive director is terminated by the Company for any reason other The remuneration of the Chairman and the non-executive directors is than due cause without twelve months notice being given, the determined by the Board as a whole in the light of recommendations director is entitled to receive payment of twelve months basic salary, by the Group Chief Executive and within the limits specified in the an amount equal to the value of a cash bonus, having regard to the Articles of Association of the Company.
directors performance for the period worked, as the Committee, in its discretion, reasonably and fairly determines, and pension benets.
In Mr Windeler was Executive Chairman until 1 June 2002.
His contract addition, life assurance and medical insurance cover will be maintained of employment, which expired on his 60th birthday in March 2003, for twelve months from the termination date.
No such payments of entitled him to a company car, non-exclusive use of a chauffeured salary and pension benets, on termination by the Company, will car for business purposes, life assurance and membership of a private exceed a payment based on the number of months from the date medical insurance scheme.
of termination of employment to the executive directors normal He was also a member of the Dened benefit Section of the retirement date.
Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme, with a normal retirement age of The executive directors may terminate their contracts of employment 60, and he contributed 5% of the Earnings Cap the unfunded pension at any time by giving six months prior notice.
arrangements referred to earlier in this report applied to him also up to his 60th birthday.
This pension is not currently being drawn.
The new contracts were signed by all executive directors on 18 December 2003.
Since March 2003 he has continued as a non-executive director on a similar basis of appointment to that applicable to the other non-executive directors, save that he continues to enjoy the benefit of non-exclusive use of a chauffeured car for business purposes.
Whilst an executive director, he participated in the Long Term Incentive Schemes specified earlier in the report.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to build up their shareholding to 5,000 shares.
No options have been, or will be, granted to any non-executive director in their capacity as a non-executive director of the Company.
Non-executive directors who are in full-time employment with a third party employer may elect to pay the whole or part of their fees to it.
Payments in respect of Mr Stones fees are made to his service company, and in respect of Mrs J V Barker who was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 January 2004 are made to her employer.
Service Contracts No non-executive director has an employment contract with the Company.
Mr J R Windelers employment contract ceased in March 2003.
On joining the Board, non-executive directors are issued with an appointment letter.
The options over these B-A-C 195 80 693 103 83 shares become exercisable after 3 years, if the director is still employed by the Company or at the discretion of the Trustees, if he leaves the Group earlier.
Mr J R Windeler ceased to make contributions to the Pension Scheme from his 60th More details can be found on page 29. birthday in March 2003.
Figures shown relate to benets earned to this date and adjusted for deferral.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Details of terms and conditions associated with the above pensions are shown on The beneficial interests of directors at the year-end in shares in pages 29 and 30.
Alliance & Leicester plc were: Fully Paid Shares of 50p each As at 01.01.03 or date of As at Directors appointment if later 31.12.03 M J Allen 500 500 R L Banks 8,127 25,468 M P S Barton 6,500 6,500 D J Bennett 5,913 17,367 The Hon D Brougham 5,000 5,000 F A Cairncross 12,714 12,714 R M McTighe 500 500 R A Pym 16,763 33,529 C S Rhodes 8,088 17,893 P J Stone from 1st October 2003 8,754 8,754 E J Watts 5,000 5,000 J R Windeler 34,836 107,809 Directors share interests include the interests of their spouses and infant children, as required by Section 328 of the Companies Act 1985.
In addition to the beneficial interests in shares shown as at 31 December 2003, Mr R L Banks, Mr D J Bennett, Mr R A Pym and Mr C S Rhodes were each allocated 90 shares in the capital of the Company by the Share Incentive Plan Trustee on 30 January 2004.
There were no other changes in the beneficial interests of the Directors in Company shares between 31 December 2003 and 13 February 2004.
The following schemes are subject to performance conditions see page 29 for details of performance conditions : # Options granted under the Alliance & Leicester Approved Company Share Option Scheme.
Options granted under the Alliance & Leicester Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme.
Gains on exercised options are disclosed in note 6 to the accounts.
On 31 December 2003 the market price of ordinary shares in Alliance & Leicester plc was 8.88 and the range during 2003 was 6.735 to 9.09.
No options have expired unexercised during 2003.
Bonus Awards The following table shows the directors interests in deferred share options awarded under the deferred bonus scheme but does not include those subject to award in February 2004 as described on page 31.
# For the 2000 to 2002 bonus years when a maximum of up to 3 matching shares for each share may be awarded TSR performance is measured against the TSR performance of a single comparator group of Retail Banks see page 29.
The matching share option granted in 1998 in respect of the 1997 bonus year was not subject to a performance objective.
This reected terms agreed at the time of the otation of the Company in 1997.
C S Rhodes deferred and matching shares were awarded prior to his appointment as a Director of the Company.
Only one matching share, which is not subject to a performance condition, may be awarded for each deferred share.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 33 Directors Remuneration Report continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2003 Long Term Incentive Scheme The following table shows the directors interests in matched share options awarded under the deferred bonus scheme but does not include those subject to award in February 2004 as described on page 31.
These gures represent the maximum potential award.
This option remains unexercised at 31 December 2003.
Whilst Mr J R Windeler was Executive Chairman he was granted options under the Executive Share Option and Deferred Bonus Schemes.
Following his relinquishment of this role, the Trustees of the Deferred Bonus Scheme set the qualifying period to end on Mr Windelers 60th birthday.
Mr Windeler was required to exercise such options including receipt of matching shares under the Deferred Bonus Scheme immediately thereafter.
The performance conditions were met for the qualifying period.
He exercised his options over 44,776 deferred shares and 134,328 matched shares on 21 March 2003.
The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 6.70.
The market value of the shares on the date of vesting and exercise was 8.375, which represents a gain of 1,499,996.
The market value of shares on date of grant was 5.10.
The market value on the date of options vesting was 7.84, representing an aggregate gain of 92,203 for Mr R L Banks and 153,711 for Mr R A Pym.
These options remain unexercised at 31 December 2003.
In the case of the 1998 and 1999 bonus years, a maximum of up to two matching shares for each deferred share may be awarded subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance ranking greater than 50th percentile against the TSR performance of two comparator groups namely the FTSE Retail Banks Index and the FTSE 100 Index with application on a linear basis of between zero for 50th percentile performance and two matching shares for the top 25th percentile performance.
The exercise price for the matched share options is nil.
There were no variations in terms and conditions of the Scheme during the year.
The market value of shares awarded on 26 February 2003 was 7.545.
On behalf of the Board M P S Barton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 February 2004 34 Alliance & Leicester
