Remuneration Report The board has prepared this report, in accordance Policy on directors fees with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the The boards policy is that the remuneration of nonCompanies Act 1985, which applies for the first executive directors should reflect the experience of time for this financial year.
An ordinary resolution the board as a whole, be fair and comparable to that for the approval of this report will be put to the of other investment trusts that are similar in size, members at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
have a similar capital structure and have a similar investment objective.
It is intended that this policy The law requires your companys auditors to audit will continue for the year ended January 2004 and certain of the disclosures provided.
disclosures have been audited, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their The fees for the non-executive directors are report on pages 20 and 21. determined within the limits set out in the companys Articles of Association, and they are not Remuneration committee eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, The company has five non-executive directors.
The long term incentive schemes or other benefits.
board as a whole fulfils the function of a Remuneration Committee.
The board has appointed Directors service contracts the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund Managers It is the boards policy that none of the directors has plc, to provide advice when the directors consider a service contract.
The terms of their appointment the level of directors fees.
The board carried out a provide that a director shall retire and be subject to review of the level of directors fees during the year, re-election at the first annual general meeting after and concluded that the amounts should remain their appointment, and at least every three years unchanged until 31 January 2003.
All directors were after that.
The terms also provide that a director directors at the time of the review.
may be removed without notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Your companys performance The graph opposite compares the total return NAV Total Return of the company since January 1998 assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary !
"shareholders compared to the total shareholder - return on a notional investment made up of shares ""# !"
"$ of the same kinds and number as those by reference %&"" !"
to which the FTSE All-Share Index is calculated.
& $ This index was chosen for comparison purposes, as !
it is the benchmark used for investment performance !
Directors emoluments for the year audited !
The directors who served in the year received emoluments in the form of fees, as described in Table 1 opposite.
PAGE 18 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
