Directors Report capital may also be allotted for cash pursuant to a approximately 13.25 million ordinary shares.
The rights issue made pro rata to shareholders in the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary future.
Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an pursuant to a rights issue at a price not less than the ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be an net asset value per share.
amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the companys ordinary shares The directors consider that the powers proposed to be for the five business days immediately preceding the granted by the above resolution are necessary to retain date of purchase.
flexibility and will be used to meet investor demand.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if iii Purchase of the companys own ordinary shares to do so would enhance the net asset value and is in A special resolution will be proposed to authorise the the best interests of shareholders generally.
company to make market purchases of its own shares.
By order of the board The maximum number of ordinary shares which may Edinburgh Fund Managers plc be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be Secretary 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of the passing of the resolution Edinburgh, 4 March 2003 Directors Remuneration Report carried out a review of the level of directors fees The board has prepared this report, in accordance during the year, and concluded that the amounts with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the should increase to 15,000 per annum for the Companies Act 1985, which applies for the first chairman and 10,000 per annum for each director time for this financial year.
An ordinary resolution previously 13,500 and 9,000 respectively.
The for the approval of this report will be put to the last increase in directors fees was in 1999.
All members at the forthcoming Annual General directors were directors at the time of the review.
Policy on directors fees The law requires your companys auditors to audit The boards policy is that the remuneration of certain of the disclosures provided.
Where non-executive directors should reflect the experience disclosures have been audited they are indicated as of the board as a whole, be fair and comparable to such.
The auditors opinion is included in their that of other investment trusts that have a similar report on page 17. capital structure and investment objective investment in a portfolio designed to track closely Remuneration committee the S&P Composite Index, both in terms of capital The company has three non-executive directors.
It is intended that this policy will board as a whole fulfils the function of a continue for the year ended January 2004 and Remuneration Committee Mr Ferguson is the subsequent years.
The board has appointed the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund Directors service contracts Managers plc, to provide advice when the directors It is the boards policy that none of the directors has consider the level of directors fees.
The board PAGE 14 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report a service contract.
The terms of their appointment For the year ended 31 January 2003 2002 provide that a director shall retire and be subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after Sir Angus Grossart 14,250 13,500 their appointment, and at least every three years after that.
The terms also provide that a director William Wilson 9,500 9,000 may be removed without notice and that James Ferguson appointed 12.3.
02 8,494 compensation will not be due on leaving office.
The Earl of Mansfield retired 13.5.
02 2,565 9,000 Total fees 34,809 31,500 Directors emoluments for the year audited The fees for the non-executive directors are Table 1 Total directors fees see note 4 determined within the limits set out in the companys articles of association, and they are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long term incentive schemes or other benefits.
Total shareholder return of the company since January 1998 The directors who served in the year received emoluments in the form of fees, as described in Table 1.
"The graph opposite compares the total return ""# assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary shareholders compared to the total shareholder return on a notional investment made up of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference to which the S&P Composite Index is calculated."
This index was chosen for comparison purposes as it is the benchmark used for investment performance measurement purposes.
Approval The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 15 was approved by the board of directors on 4 March 2003 and signed on its behalf by: By order of the board, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Secretary PAGE 15 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
