Directors remuneration report The directors remuneration report covers all directors, both executive and Non-executive directors remuneration is in the second part, which non-executive, and is set out on pages 106-115. was prepared by the company secretary on behalf of the board.
It is divided into two parts.
Executive directors remuneration is in the The report has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf first part, which was prepared by the remuneration committee.
This report is subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM.
Part 1 Executive directors remuneration Dear Shareholder The remuneration committees well-defined policy of relating pay to the performance of the company continues to be central in determining the remuneration of the executive directors.
As is commented on elsewhere in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003, the company produced strong financial results in 2003 as well as excellent progress on the implementation of the companys strategic plans.
The outcome of the committees assessment for 2003 has therefore been an increase in the performance-related annual bonus and share element of the Executive Directors Incentive Plan, compared with the reductions in 2002.
Share option grants, made in February 2003, were maintained at the same level as 2002.
Salaries, other than for promotions, were increased by up to 5% mid-year to maintain our competitive position.
Further details on the above are set out in the committees report.
The independent process and advice the committee utilizes continue to give us confidence in our policy and its application.
We also value our dialogue with major shareholders.
During 2004, we will be conducting a comprehensive review of our plans and policies with an expectation of bringing new long-term plans to shareholders for approval in 2005 when our current Executive Directors Incentive Plan expires.
I am confident that our approach will continue to align executive directors remuneration with the interests of shareholders as well as retain and engage the world-class team of individuals we have leading the company.
Sir Robin Nicholson Chairman, Remuneration Committee 9 February 2004 The remuneration committee Constitution and operation Tasks The committee members are all non-executive directors.
The membership The committees tasks as set out in the board governance policies are: throughout 2003 was: Sir Robin Nicholson chairman, Mr Davis, Dr Julius, To determine on behalf of the board the terms of engagement and Mr Knight and Sir Ian Prosser.
Currently, each member is subject to remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors re-election every three years: however, annual re-election is proposed and to report on those to the shareholders.
The board considers all committee members to be To determine on behalf of the board matters of policy over which the independent see pages 103-104.
They have no personal financial company has authority relating to the establishment or operation of interest, other than as shareholders, in the committees decisions.
They the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships with the are members.
executive directors nor from being involved in the day-to-day business To nominate on behalf of the board any trustees or directors of of the company.
The committee met six times in the period under review.
corporate trustees of such scheme.
There was a full attendance record, except that Sir Ian and Mr Davis were To monitor the policies being applied by the group chief executive each unable to attend one meeting.
Mr Sutherland, as chairman of the in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors.
board, also attended committee meetings.
The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the outcome of the vote at the AGM on the remuneration report, and the views of investors will be taken into account by the committee in its future decisions.
The committee also values its dialogue with major shareholders on remuneration matters.
106 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Advice Elements of remuneration Advice is provided to the committee by the company secretarys office, The executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual which is independent of executive management and reports to the bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
Mr Aronson, who is an independent consultant structure is regularly reviewed by the committee to ensure that it is within the company secretarys office, was appointed in 2000 by the achieving its objectives.
In 2004, over three-quarters of executive committee as its secretary and special adviser.
He does not provide directors potential direct remuneration will again be performance-related any other services to the group.
Advice was also received in 2003 from see illustrative chart below.
Mr Jackson company secretary, Miss Hanratty former company secretary and Mrs Martin senior counsel, company secretarys office.
The committee, in consultation with Mr Aronson and the company secretary, also appoints external professional advisers to provide specialist On-target remuneration elements advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
This allows for a range of external independent opinion to be sourced by the committee.
Base salary This advice is then subject to an independent review by Mr Aronson.
The Performance-related annual bonus committee assesses this advice, applying its own judgement.
Procedures Performance-related long-term incentives include a share element and share options to ensure the independence of advice are subject to annual review.
The committee appointed Towers Perrin as its principal external adviser during 2003 on matters of executive directors remuneration.
Towers Perrin also provided some limited ad hoc remuneration and benefits advice to parts of the group, mainly comprising pensions advice in Canada.
This chart reflects on-target values for annual bonus and share element, Lord Browne group chief executive was consulted on matters relating and a Black Scholes value for the share option element.
to the other executive directors who report to him and, together with Dr Allen group chief of staff, on matters relating to the performance Salary of the company.
Neither was present when matters affecting his own Each executive director receives a fixed sum payable monthly in cash.
The committee expects to review salaries in 2004 in line with global markets.
In doing so the committee considers appropriate comparator Policy on executive directors remuneration groups in both Europe and the US, which are defined and analysed by Main principles external remuneration advisers engaged independently by the committee.
The remuneration committees reward policy reflects its aim to align executive directors remuneration with shareholders interests and to Annual bonus engage world-class executive talent for the benefit of the group.
The Each executive director is eligible to participate in an annual performancemain principles of the policy are: based bonus scheme.
The remuneration committee reviews and sets Total rewards should be set at appropriate levels to reflect the bonus targets and levels of eligibility annually.
competitive global market in which BP operates.
The target level is 100% of base salary except for Lord Browne, The majority of the total reward should be linked to the achievement for whom, as group chief executive, it is considered appropriate to have of demanding performance targets.
There is a stretch level of 150% of base salary for Executive directors incentives should be aligned with the interests substantially exceeding targets.
Outstanding performance may be of ordinary shareholders.
This is achieved through setting performance recognized by bonus payments in excess of the stretch level at the targets that take account of measures of shareholders interests and discretion of the remuneration committee.
Executive directors annual through the committees policy that each executive director should hold bonus awards for 2004 will be based on a mix of demanding financial a significant shareholding in the company, equivalent in value to 5 x the targets relating to the companys annual plan and leadership objectives directors base salary.
established at the beginning of the year.
In addition to stretching The performance targets in the Executive Directors Incentive Plan milestones and long-run metrics to track the enactment of strategy, should encompass demanding comparisons of BPs shareholder returns they include areas such as people, safety, environment and organization.
and earnings with those of other companies in its own industry and in the broader marketplace.
Long-term incentives The wider scene, including pay and employment conditions elsewhere Long-term incentives are provided under the Executive Directors Incentive in the group, should be taken into account, especially when determining Plan EDIP, which was approved by shareholders in April 2000.
It has three annual salary increases.
elements: a share element, a share option element and a cash element.
The companys existing policy on executive directors remuneration will Each executive director participates in this plan.
The committees policy, remain in place for 2004.
The committee is conducting a comprehensive subject to unforeseen circumstances, is that this should continue until the review of its policies in the course of 2004 prior to the expiry of the current plan expires or is renewed in April 2005.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan in April 2005.
This review will take into The performance conditions in the share element and share option account changes in BPs business environment and its strategy.
New element of the EDIP were selected to ensure that executive directors policies will be described in the next remuneration report for shareholder long-term remuneration under the EDIP is appropriately balanced between approval and specific shareholder authorization will be sought for any new elements testing BPs performance against that of competitors in the oil long-term share incentive plans.
All statements in this report in relation to industry and elements testing BPs performance against that of leading remuneration policy for years after 2004 should be read in this light.
107 The committees policy is that each executive director should hold 2.
Share option element shares equivalent in value to 5 x the directors base salary within five The share option element of the EDIP is designed to reflect BPs years of being appointed an executive director.
As is reflected in the table performance relative to a wider selection of global companies.
It has a of Directors interests on page 105, Lord Browne, Mr Olver and Dr Grote disclosed three-year pre-grant performance requirement that differentiates all have holdings in excess of the guidelines.
The recent appointees are it from traditional share option schemes.
Under this element, options may expected to attain this level within five years of their appointments.
This be granted to executive directors at an exercise price no lower than the policy is reflected in the terms of the EDIP, as shares awarded under the market value as determined in accordance with the plan rules of a share share element will only be released at the end of the three-year retention at the date the option is granted.
Reflecting the pre-grant performance period as described below if the minimum shareholding guidelines have requirement, options vest over three years after grant one-third each been met.
after one, two and three years respectively.
They have a life of seven years after grant.
Share element In accordance with the framework approved by shareholders in 2000, The share element permits the remuneration committee to grant it is the committees policy to continue to exercise its judgement in 2004 performance units to executive directors.
These are notional units to decide the number of options to be granted to each executive director, that give the directors the right to be considered for an award of shares taking into account BPs total shareholder return TSR compared with the without payment by the directors at the end of a three-year performance TSR for the FTSE Global 100 group of companies over the three years period, if demanding performance conditions are met.
The committee preceding the grant.
The committee will not grant options in any year determines the number of units to be awarded each year.
The maximum unless the criteria for an award of shares under the share element have value that may be granted in any one year will not normally exceed twice been met.
These methods of calculation were chosen to enable the the base salary.
The maximum number of shares that may be awarded for committee to take into account not only the TSR position but also the each performance unit is two.
underlying health of the business and the competitive marketplace.
Shares awarded are then held in trust for three years before they are The value of the grants is designed to reflect global market practice released to the individual.
This gives the executive directors a six-year for executive pay.
Following grant, the options are not subject to any incentive structure, and is designed to ensure that their interests are performance conditions.
The remuneration committee has favoured aligned with those of shareholders.
this approach for two main reasons.
First, it has the effect of treating share options as a reward both for past performance because BPs Timeline for 2004-2006 EDIP share element ranking within a comparator group will have been taken into account in determining the number of shares under option and as an incentive for future performance because the participants gain under the option will Performance period Retention period depend on share price growth after the grant under the option.
Second, BP operates internationally and the application of a performance condition after grant has not been a feature of option schemes operated by major international companies based outside the UK.
The use of options and Grant Award Release the types of conditions to be attached to them will be considered by the committee as part of the more general review that is being conducted 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 prior to the expiry of the current plan in 2005.
The share element compares BPs performance against the oil and gas sector over three years on a rolling basis.
This is assessed in terms of a 3.
Cash element three-year total shareholder return against the market SHRAM, return on The cash element allows the remuneration committee to grant cash average capital employed ROACE and earnings per share growth, based rather than share-based incentives in exceptional circumstances.
This on pro forma results adjusted for special items EPS.
SHRAM is the element was not used in 2003 and the committee has no present primary measure, accounting for nearly two-thirds of the potential total intention to use it in 2004. award.
All calculations are reviewed by the auditors to ensure that they meet an independent objective standard.
The relative position of the Pensions company within the comparator group determines the number of shares Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension awarded per performance unit.
schemes applying in their home countries.
For the 2001-2003 plan, BPs three-year SHRAM was measured against the other oil majors: ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco, UK directors ENI and Repsol.
Owing to the reduced number of oil majors, for the UK directors are members of the BP Pension Scheme.
The scheme 2002-2004, 2003-2005 and 2004-2006 plans BPs three-year SHRAM is offers Inland Revenue-approved retirement benefits based on final measured against the companies in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
The BP pension scheme forms the principal section of the BP Companies within the index are weighted according to their market Pension Fund, which has been set up under a trust deed.
Company capitalization at the beginning of each three-year period in order to give contributions to the fund are made on the advice of the actuary appointed greatest emphasis to oil majors.
The committee reviews and approves annually the performance Scheme members core benefits are non-contributory.
They include a measures and the comparator companies.
The policy for the 2004-2006 pension accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, subject plan is to continue with the SHRAM measure adopted by the committee to a maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary: and a dependants in relation to the 2002-2004 and 2003-2005 plans.
benefit of two-thirds of the members pension.
Bonuses are not BPs ROACE and EPS for all the plans since 2002 are measured against pensionable for UK directors.
The scheme pension is not integrated ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf and ChevronTexaco.
108 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Normal retirement age is 60, but scheme members who have 30 or where appropriate to do so.
It will also consider mitigation to reduce more years pensionable service at age 55 can elect to retire early without compensation to a departing director where appropriate to do so.
A large an actuarial reduction being applied to their pension.
proportion of each executive directors total remuneration is linked to Pensions payable from the fund are guaranteed to be increased performance and therefore will not be payable to the extent that the annually in line with changes in the Retail Prices Index, up to a maximum relevant targets are not met.
Directors appointed prior to 2003 accrue pension on a non-contributory Specific contracts basis at the enhanced rate of 2 60ths of their final salary for each year of Director Contract date Current salary service as executive directors up to the same two-thirds limit.
None of Lord Browne 11 November 1993 1,348,200 the directors is affected by the pensionable earnings cap.
RL Olver 31 December 1997 584,400 In accordance with the companys long-standing practice for executive Dr B E Grote 7 August 2000 $782,800 directors who retire from BP on or after age 55 having accrued at least Dr D C Allen 29 January 2003 400,000 30 years service, Mr Chase received from the company in 2003 an Dr A B Hayward 29 January 2003 400,000 ex-gratia lump-sum superannuation payment equal to one years base J A Manzoni 29 January 2003 400,000 salary following his retirement.
Lord Browne remains eligible for Director leaving the board in 2003 consideration for such a payment.
In the case of these individuals, all R F Chase 30 November 1993 matters relating to such superannuation payments are considered by the remuneration committee.
Any such payments are additional to their pension entitlements referred to above.
No other executive director is All service contracts expire at normal retirement date and have a notice eligible for consideration for a superannuation payment on retirement, period of one year.
as the remuneration committee decided in 1996 that appointees to the The service contracts of Mr Olver, Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and Mr Manzoni board after that time should cease to be eligible for consideration for may also be terminated by the company at any time with immediate effect such a payment.
on payment in lieu of notice equivalent to one years salary or the amount The UK government has recently announced important proposals on of salary that would have been paid if the contract had terminated on the pensions, the impact of which will be reviewed by the committee in 2004. expiry of the remainder of the notice period.
Dr Grotes service contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is US director seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement dated 7 August 2000.
Dr Grote as a US director participates in the US BP Retirement At 31 December 2003, this secondment agreement had an unexpired term Accumulation Plan US plan, which features a cash balance formula.
The secondment may be terminated by one months notice The current design of the US plan became effective on 1 July 2000. by either party and terminates automatically on the termination of Consistent with US tax regulations, pension benefits are provided Dr Grotes service contract.
through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit restoration There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early plans, as applicable.
termination of the above contracts.
In the event of early termination under The Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit supplemental plan is a any of the above contracts by the company other than for cause or under non-qualified top-up arrangement that became effective on 1 January 2002 a specific termination payment provision, the relevant directors then for US employees above a specified salary level.
current salary and benefits would be taken into account in calculating The benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which comprise any liability of the company.
base salary and bonus in accordance with standard US practice as specified under the qualified arrangement multiplied by years of service, Historical TSR performance with an offset for benefits payable under all other BP qualified and nonThis graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding qualified pension arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and therefore in BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years relative to the FTSE All World paid from corporate assets.
Oil & Gas Index, which is considered to be the most relevant broad equity Dr Grote is an eligible participant under the supplemental plan, and his market index for this purpose as it relates directly to BPs sector.
The graph pension accrual for 2003 includes the total amount that may become is included to meet a legislative requirement and is not directly relevant to payable under all plans.
the performance criteria approved by shareholders for the companys longterm incentive plans.
Other benefits Benefits and other share schemes: Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit plans and in all-employee share 160 schemes and savings plans applying in their home countries.
Benefits 150 in kind are not pensionable.
140 Resettlement allowance: Expatriates may receive a resettlement 130 allowance for a limited period.
120 110 Service contracts 100 Policy 90 The committees policy on executive directors service contracts is for 80 them to contain a maximum notice period of one year.
This policy has now been fully implemented.
Annual bonus is shown in the year it was earned.
Share option grants in 2003 were maintained at the same level as in 2002. a Gross award of shares based on a performance assessment by the remuneration committee and on the other terms of the plan.
Sufficient shares are sold to pay for tax applicable.
Remaining shares are held in trust until 2007 when they are released to the individual.
b Based on closing price of BP shares on 9 February 2004 4.26 per share $48.40 per ADS.
c Based on average market price on date of award 3.96 per share $39.62 per ADS.
d Performance units granted under the 2003-2005 share element of the EDIP are converted to shares at the end of the performance period.
Maximum of two shares per performance unit.
e Options granted in February 2003 have a grant price of 3.88 per share.
Dr Grote holds options over ADSs: the above numbers reflect calculated equivalents.
f Reflects remuneration received since appointment as executive director on 1 February 2003. g Includes resettlement allowances for Dr Grote of $300,000 and $175,000 in 2002 and 2003 respectively.
h Amounts for Mr Chase reflect the period until his retirement in May 2003.
Salary Base salaries for Lord Browne, Mr Olver and Dr Grote were increased by 5% per annum with effect from 1 July 2003, following a review of 2003 actual remuneration elements appropriate comparator groups.
Apart from the 5% promotional increases Base salary for Mr Olver and Dr Grote on their appointments to deputy group chief Performance-related annual bonus executive and chief financial officer respectively, the three directors had Performance-related long-term incentives received no salary increases since January 2002.
Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and include a share element and share options Mr Manzoni have received no salary increases since their appointments to the board in February 2003.
Annual bonus This chart reflects the average mix of total remuneration received by The annual bonus awards for 2003 are based on a mix of financial targets executive directors in 2003 and includes actual salary, bonus and share and leadership objectives established at the beginning of the year.
element award as well as a Black Scholes value of options granted.
Assessment of all the results produced an award of around 85% of stretch level stretch level is 150% of base salary.
All calculations in relation to the annual bonus have been reviewed by the auditors.
110 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Past directors consultancy agreement, he receives $50,000 gross per month plus Following Dr Buchanans retirement from the BP p. l. c. board on expenses.
This consultancy will end in May 2004.
21 November 2002, he remained as an employee until his normal On 21 July 2003, Mr Chase was appointed as a BP-nominated director retirement date of 8 June 2003.
During that period he received a of TNK-BP Limited, a joint-venture company owned 50% by BP.
During pro rata normal salary of 227,000 and a pro rata bonus of 289,425.
2003, he received emoluments of $120,000 from TNK-BP Limited.
Following Mr Chases retirement in May 2003, he was engaged as Long-term awards for both former directors are in accordance with a consultant to BP in relation to the TNK-BP transaction.
Under the scheme rules as outlined in the table on page 112.
Share options Share option grants in 2003 as shown in the table below were maintained at the same level as in 2002.
During 2003, the highest market prices were 4.55 and $49.35 respectively, and the lowest market prices were 3.57 and $35.37 respectively.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2000 as described on pages 107-108.
The awards are made taking into consideration the ranking of the companys TSR against the TSR of the FTSE Global 100 group of companies over the three-year period prior to the grant.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
SAR Stock Appreciation Rights under BP America Inc. Share Appreciation Plan.
In keeping with the US market practice, none of the options under the BPA and SAR is subject to performance conditions because they were granted under American plans to the relevant individual.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share option scheme.
These options are not subject to performance conditions because this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
a Options surrendered on 3 July 2003 for nil cash consideration.
b Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
c On appointment to the board of BP p. l. c. on 1 February 2003. d On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 23 April 2003.
111 Long Term Performance Plans LTPPs and share element of EDIP mature into share awards.
Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and Mr Manzoni therefore Under the Long Term Performance Plans and the share element of the have rights under the 2000-2002, 2001-2003 and 2002-2004 LTPPs.
EDIP, performance units are granted at the beginning of the period and For the 2001-2003 share element of the EDIP and the LTPP, BPs converted into an award of shares at the end of the three-year period, performance was assessed in terms of SHRAM, ROACE and EPS growth depending on performance.
There is a maximum of two shares per each relative to that of ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco, performance unit.
Since the adoption of the EDIP in April 2000, the executive directors have BPs SHRAM came in at sixth place among the comparator group, ceased to be eligible for grants under the BP share option plan and the fourth place on EPS growth and first place on ROACE.
However, they are not required to relinquish rights under those plans Based on a performance assessment of 85 points out of 200, the that had already been granted prior to their appointments as executive remuneration committee expects to make awards of shares to executive directors including performance units under the LTPPs that have yet to directors as highlighted in the 2001-2003 lines of the table below.
Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and Mr Manzoni also continue to have units granted under the 2001-2003 and 2002-2004 LTPPs which were granted prior to their appointments as executive directors.
All other units were granted under the EDIP as explained on pages 107-108.
BPs performance is assessed in terms of a three-year SHRAM against the oil majors.
For 1998-2000 this included ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco: for 2000-2002 and 2001-2003 this included ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco, ENI, Repsol: for 2002-2004 and 2003-2005 it is measured against the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
For the 2000-2002, 2001-2003 and 2002-2004 plans, performance is also assessed in terms of ROACE and EPS growth.
For 2000-2002 and 2001-2003, they are measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco, ENI, Repsol and for 2002-2004 and 2003-2005 against ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b Represents number of performance units, each having a maximum potential of two shares depending on performance.
c Represents awards of shares made or expected to be made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan.
d On appointment to the board of BP p. l. c. on 1 February 2003. e On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 23 April 2003. f Dr Buchanan elected to defer to 2004 the determination of whether an award should be made for the 1998-2000 performance period.
This number does not include accumulated dividends.
112 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pensions Accrued Additional pension Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less a a Service at pension entitlement earned during the year accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by thousand 31 Dec 2003 at 31 Dec 2003 ended 31 Dec 2003 at 31 Dec 2002 A at 31 Dec 2003 B the director in 2003 Lord Browne UK 37 years 899 43 12,762 13,921 1,159 Dr D C Allen UK 25 years 168 41 1,522 2,089 567 Dr B E Grote USA 24 years $371 $102 $3,493 $4,814 $1,321 Dr A B Hayward UK 22 years 170 53 1,302 1,967 665 J A Manzoni UK 20 years 135 34 1,007 1,395 388 R L Olver UK 30 years 390 36 5,473 6,271 798 Director leaving the board in 2003 b R F Chase UK 39 years 427 7,766 7,919 153 a Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
b Mr Chase retired on 11 May 2003 and elected to take a lump sum of 1,124,178 in lieu of part of his entitlement.
The figures in the table include the allowance for this lump sum.
Mr Chase, in addition, received a superannuation payment of 640,000, as is described on page 109.
113 Non-executive directors annual fee structure Part 2 Non-executive directors remuneration The fees paid to non-executive directors are set by the board within the limits set by shareholders in accordance with the Articles.
The company will be asked to approve an increase in this limit fixed since 1998 at the Policy on non-executive directors remuneration 2004 AGM.
All fees are fixed and paid in pounds sterling.
Fees payable to The board sets the level of remuneration for all non-executive directors non-executive directors were last reviewed during 2002. within the limit approved from time to time by shareholders.
In line with BPs governance policies, the remuneration of the chairman is set by the thousand board rather than the remuneration committee, since the performance a Chairman 390 of the chairman is a matter for the board as a whole rather than any b Deputy chairman 85 one committee.
Board member 65 The board has adopted the following policies to guide its current Committee chairmanship fee 15 and future decision-making with regard to non-executive directors c Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 remuneration.
a Within the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, The chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or transatlantic attendance allowance but has the use of a fully maintained office and a chauffeured remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain car for company business.
b The deputy chairman receives a 20,000 increment on top of the standard board fee.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the board and In addition, the deputy chairman is eligible for committee chairmanship fees and the transatlantic attendance allowance.
The deputy chairman is currently chairman of the should be proportional to their contribution towards the interests audit committee.
c This allowance is payable to non-executive directors undertaking transatlantic travel Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized bestfor the purpose of attending a board meeting or board committee meeting.
practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
Long-term incentives residual Non-executive directors should not receive share options from the The table on page 115 sets out the residual entitlements of non-executive company.
directors who were formerly non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation Non-executive directors should be encouraged to establish a holding under the Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan.
in BP shares broadly related to one years base fee, to be held directly or indirectly in a manner compatible with their personal investment activities, and any applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Information subject to audit Elements of remuneration Non-executive directors pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly, with Remuneration of non-executive directors increments for positions of additional responsibility, reflecting additional thousand 2003 2002 workload and consequent potential liability.
For all non-executive directors except the chairman, a fixed sum allowance is paid for transatlantic travel Current directors undertaken for the purpose of attending a board or board committee J H Bryan 95 80 meeting.
In addition, non-executive directors receive reimbursement E B Davis, Jr 90 80 of reasonable travel and related business expenses.
No share or share Dr D S Julius 80 63 option awards are made to any non-executive director in respect of service C F Knight 95 63 on the board.
F A Maljers 80 63 Dr W E Massey 110 90 a Letters of appointment H M P Miles 80 63 b Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which recognize Sir Robin Nicholson 95 73 that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the discretion Sir Ian Prosser 115 98 of the shareholders.
At the 2004 annual general meeting, shareholders will P D Sutherland 390 335 be asked to approve an amendment to the Articles so that all directors will M H Wilson 95 77 stand for re-election annually, rather than the current practice of standing a Also received 600 each year for serving as a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
for re-election at the first meeting following their appointment and b Also received 20,000 each year for serving as the boards representative on the subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
114 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan Superannuation gratuities Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation were allocated restricted In accordance with the companys long-standing practice, non-executive stock in the Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan by way directors who retire from the board after at least six years service of remuneration for their service on the board of Amoco Corporation prior are, at the time of their retirement, eligible for consideration for a to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, interests in Amoco shares in superannuation gratuity.
The board is authorized to make such payments the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
Under the terms of the under the companys Articles.
The amount of the payment is determined plan, the restricted stock will vest upon the retirement of the non-executive at the boards discretion having regard to the directors period of service director having reached age 70 or upon earlier retirement at the discretion as a director and other relevant factors.
Since the merger, no further entitlements have accrued to In 2002, the board revised its policy with respect to such payments so any director under the plan.
These residual interests require disclosure that: i non-executive directors appointed to the board after 1 July 2002 under the directors remuneration report regulations 2002 as interests would not be eligible for consideration for such a payment: and ii while in a long-term incentive scheme.
non-executive directors in service at 1 July 2002 would remain eligible for consideration for a payment, service after that date would not be taken into account by the board in considering the amount of any such payment.
Interest in BP ADSs The board made no superannuation gratuity payments during the year.
at 1 January 2003 and Date on which director a b 31 December 2003 reaches age 70 J H Bryan 5,546 5 October 2006 EB Davis, Jr 4,490 5 August 2014 This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and signed c F A Maljers 2,906 12 August 2003 on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary, on 9 February 2004.
Dr W E Massey 3,346 5 April 2008 M H Wilson 3,170 4 November 2007 a No awards were granted or vested and no other awards lapsed during the year.
b For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director retires from the board at or after the age of 70 is the end of the qualifying period.
If the director retires prior to this date, the board may waive the restrictions.
c The award to Mr Maljers will vest on 15 April 2004, being the date of the AGM at which he will retire from the board.
