BPB annual report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003 A perspective of the group is given on pages 1 to 9 and the activities of Annual general meeting the companys principal subsidiary, associated and joint venture companies The companys annual general meeting will be held at 12 noon on are indicated on page 57.
Analyses of turnover, operating profit and net Wednesday 23 July 2003 at the Millennium Hotel Mayfair, London W1.
assets are shown in note 3 on page 46.
Reviews of the operating and financial performance of the group for the year, of any important events After considering the ordinary business, which includes for the first time after the year end, and of likely future developments, are given on pages a resolution to approve the remuneration committees report as set out on 12 to 24 and, together with the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11, pages 34 to 40, shareholders will be asked to consider, as special business, and the safety, ethics & environment report on pages 25 to 27, form part a proposal to renew the directors limited authority to make market of this report.
purchases of the companys shares.
The corporate governance report on pages 32 and 33 is submitted by the Full details of the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory Board, and the remuneration report to shareholders on pages 34 to 40 is notes, are set out in a separate notice of meeting which accompanies submitted by the management remuneration and development committee this annual report and accounts.
A statement of directors responsibilities for the preparation of financial statements for the year to 31 March 2003 is given The company will continue its policy of providing details of proxy voting on page 41. at each AGM.
These will also be provided after each meeting on the companys website www.
Dividends The Board recommends a final dividend of 8.9p per share 2002 8.6p Electronic shareholder services making a total for the year of 13.55p 2002 13.1p.
If approved, the final Shareholders can elect to obtain shareholder documents, such as annual and dividend will be paid on 22 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on interim reports and notices of general meetings, electronically from BPBs 25 July 2003: the interim dividend of 4.65p was paid on 24 January 2003. website rather than by post.
Those shareholders who wish to take advantage of this free service may do so by registering their details on BPBs registrars Share capital website www.
Additionally, this year for the first time, Full details of changes in the companys share capital which occurred shareholders may, if they so wish, register the appointment of a proxy for during the year are shown in note 24 on page 54. the AGM electronically by logging on to BPBs registrars proxy appointment website at www.
co. uk where full details of the procedure are No shares were purchased during the year under the limited authority given.
Similarly, CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy through the granted at the 2002 annual general meeting to make market purchases CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the of up to 10% of the companys shares.
procedures described in the CREST manual.
Further information on both these electronic proxy lodgement services is set out in a separate notice of At 31 March 2003 there were 492.8 million ordinary shares in issue held meeting which accompanies this annual report and accounts.
These shareholdings are analysed in the tables below by category of shareholder and size of shareholding.
Directors and their interests The directors of the company during the year were as shown on pages As at 7 May 2003, the company had been notified of the following interests 28 and 29, together with Peter Sydney-Smith who left the group on of 3% or more in its issued ordinary share capital: Prudential plc 7.0%: 30 June 2002 and Sir John Whitehead who retired on 24 July 2002.
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 7.0%: Standard Life Investments 4.9%: Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 4.0%: Legal & General The interests of the directors holding office at the year end in the companys Investment Management 3.2%: Zurich Financial Services Group 3.0%: ordinary shares as at 31 March 2003, and movements during the year in in addition Chase Nominees Ltd holds 4.7% as a bare trustee.
their share option and share matching plan interests, were as shown in the % of % of ordinary Number total share Category of shareholder of accounts accounts capital Individuals 5,834 65.69 3.32 Banks and nominees 2,394 26.96 93.49 Companies 649 7.31 2.07 30 Insurance companies and pension trusts 4 0.04 1.12 8,881 100.00 100.00 The majority of holdings in the second category are of investment managers who act for a much larger number of investors.
% of % of ordinary Number total share Size of shareholding of accounts accounts capital 11,000 2,783 31.34 0.31 1,00110,000 4,973 56.00 3.25 10,001100,000 749 8.43 4.82 100,001500,000 230 2.59 10.80 500,0011,000,000 66 0.74 9.89 over 1,000,000 80 0.90 70.93 8,881 100.00 100.00 BPB annual report 2003 remuneration committees report on pages 38 and 39: the weighted discrimination and continues to be supportive of the employment average prices of directors share options, together with the pre-tax gain in and advancement of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities value of exercisable options at 31 March 2003 are shown on page 39. and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
If employees become disabled every effort is made to ensure During the year no director had any interest in the companys 6.5% euro their employment continues, with appropriate training where necessary.
denominated bonds due 2010 or in any shares or debenture or loan stocks of the companys subsidiaries, or any material interest in any contract with Personal training and development remains a key priority in achieving the company or a subsidiary being a contract of significance in relation the groups goals and in ensuring that all employees perform to their to the companys business.
To this end, employees have the opportunity to participate in a range of training programmes in the fields of technology, building and Gerry Acher, who will retire having been appointed since the last annual construction industry, professional skills and management and personal general meeting, together with Lady Balfour of Burleigh, Jean-Pierre Clavel, development.
Linked to a group-wide process for encouraging employees, Richard Cousins, Mark Higson and Paul Withers, who retire by rotation, offer where relevant, to transfer between group companies, this provides the themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
opportunity for BPB people to experience new and challenging environments Michael Beckett and Martin Clark will be retiring as directors at the and for the sharing of skills and expertise throughout the group.
conclusion of that meeting but will not seek re-election.
Research and development As explained in the service agreements paragraph on page 36, The groups research and development programme plays a key role in Richard Cousins, Mark Higson and Paul Withers have contracts subject supporting BPBs activities.
During the year, the group spent 4.6 million to termination on twelve months notice and Jean-Pierre Clavel has 2002 4.3 million on increasing manufacturing efficiency, improving a contract terminable on six months notice.
Lady Balfour of Burleigh product quality and introducing new products.
BPBs acoustic, fire, systemsand Gerry Acher do not have service contracts.
development and structural testing facilities are accredited to international standards through UKAS for assessment of BS, ISO, ASTM, NF and EN Employment policies standards: such accreditation is also recognised by a variety of international The group continues to develop and maintain progressive policies for standards authorities.
all aspects of employment, the overall objective being to optimise performance through recruitment and retention of effective, well-motivated Charitable and political contributions people in every sector of its business.
Details of payments for charitable purposes made during the year are given on page 27.
The company did not make donations to or incur expenses to BPB seeks to realise the potential of every employee, recognising benefit any UK or other EU political parties or organisations 2002 nil.
individual and team contribution and rewarding competitively relative to the groups success.
Auditors A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors Group companies operate within a framework of human resources policies to the company will be put to the annual general meeting on 23 July 2003. appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation.
On behalf of the Board The group attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees RM Heard informed on matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the business.
Director and group secretary Although there are various communication channels, including a global 21 May 2003 magazine, an intranet site and emails, the primary one is face-to-face communication between managers and their staff.
These are complemented by formal consultation processes through a works council in Europe and national systems of employee representation.
All these communication channels, along with training programmes, enhance awareness of financial and economic factors affecting BPBs performance and promote good communication and mutual understanding.
Employees in the UK have the opportunity to participate in the companys SAYE share option scheme over a three or five year period, and further details of these arrangements are given in note 24 on page 54.
31 Approximately 75% of eligible employees those with a minimum of one years service now participate in the scheme, each holding on average options over nearly 4,750 shares and saving in excess of 150 per month.
In addition, employees are able to participate in the BPB UK Employee Share Ownership Plan providing a further opportunity to increase their shareholding in BPB by enabling them to buy shares on a monthly basis out of pre-tax salary.
Over 11% of eligible employees those with a minimum of 18 months service participate in the plan, investing on average almost 70 per month in BPB shares.
BPB also encourages, where appropriate, the introduction of all-employee share schemes in other countries in accordance with predetermined group guidelines, primarily involving the use of shares already in issue.
BPB is committed to providing equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion, career development, training and reward for all employees without BPB annual report 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance in its The group executive committee consists of all the executive directors management of the affairs of the group.
together with three senior group executives, meets seven times a year and is chaired by the group chief executive: its principal tasks are to ensure The groups policy guidelines on corporate direction and control have the proper management of the groups operations, to act as a forum ensured that the company has applied all of the principles of good for consultation and co-ordination, and to make recommendations to governance contained in the Combined Code in the organisational structure the Board.
it has adopted to conduct its business, the means by which directors are remunerated, the manner of contact with shareholders, and the procedures The audit committee meets at least three times each year to review adhered to in its financial reporting, internal control and assurance process.
and discuss the intended publication of results, the efficacy and reliability Other than in connection with the disclosures elsewhere in this report of internal control, any changes to financial reporting requirements and relating to executive director service contracts which will be fully compliant matters arising from the annual group audit: it also keeps under review by 1 August 2003 see page 36 and nomination of a senior independent the overall financial relationship with, and independence and objectivity director below, the company has also complied in full throughout the of, the external auditors.
Its current members comprise the group chairman financial year with the detailed best practice governance provisions set out and four non-executive directors, one of whom acts as chairman of in the Combined Code.
The Board and its committees The management remuneration and development committee meets Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Board at least four times a year and currently consists of the group chairman of directors, which meets at least seven times each year and currently and three non-executive directors, one of whom acts as chairman of the comprises six executive directors, six non-executive directors and the committee.
Details of the committees main functions, and its current chairman.
This balance ensures that no individual director or small group remuneration policies for parent company directors and senior executives, of directors dominates the decision making process.
are given in the remuneration committees report commencing on page 34.
Although all directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper The nomination committee meets at least twice every year to review stewardship of the companys affairs, the non-executive directors fulfil a the Board structure, size and composition, and to supervise succession vital role in corporate accountability.
They have a particular responsibility plans for the posts of group chairman and group chief executive.
When to examine critically the strategies proposed by the executive directors appropriate, the committee nominates for consideration by the Board and play a leading role in the functioning of the main Board committees.
candidates for parent company directorship.
Current members comprise They are all considered by the Board to be fully independent, including the group chairman and four non-executive directors, one of whom Martin Clark and Michael Beckett, whose contributions remain as robustly acts as chairman of the committee.
challenging as ever in their respective eleventh and twelfth years of office: both will, however, be retiring at this years AGM as part of the Boards The safety, ethics & environment committee meets at least three times succession planning.
a year and consists of the group chairman and three non-executive directors, one of whom acts as chairman of the committee: its principal The Board has again considered the appointment of a senior independent tasks are to facilitate throughout the group the promotion by management director, but has concluded that, given BPBs governance structure and of a culture of responsible corporate behaviour and for assessing the processes, such an appointment is not necessary, all the more so in light adequacy of management reporting of such behaviour in compliance of the proposals in the Higgs Review to expand the responsibilities of the with embedded procedures and policies.
It also assists in promoting appointment at the expense of diminishing the role of the chairman a culture of safe working practices and care and sensitivity towards the and creating potential for Board division without any demonstrable environment, and overviews the groups charitable donations policy.
Accordingly, the Board has unanimously decided that if any person wishes to convey a concern they should contact the group Current chairmanships and memberships of all these committees chairman or any other director.
In addition, the group secretary has a specific responsibility to the group as a whole for its sound governance and for There are procedures to provide directors with appropriate and timely the guidance of the Board in the responsible and effective execution of information, and all directors have access to the advice of the group its tasks.
secretary: independent professional advice is also available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the companys expense.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings was almost 100% during the year: of the 27 meetings held there were only six occasions on which Following the appointment of new directors to the Board an induction one director was absent, and only one director missed two meetings.
32 programme is arranged, including visits to the groups businesses and meetings with senior management as appropriate, to facilitate their Internal control understanding of the group.
The Combined Code requires listed companies to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and New directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for the companys assets.
The Turnbull Report, adopted by the Financial re-election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Services Authority, provides guidance for compliance with that part of Thereafter, in accordance with the Combined Code, the articles of the Combined Code.
In addition, the Association of British Insurers has association require that all directors stand for re-election at least issued disclosure guidelines on socially responsible investment which require every three years.
listed companies to report to shareholders and give assurance that the company is managing its risks on social, ethical and environmental matters.
The Board as a whole determines group strategy, reviews trading performance, ensures adequate funding, examines major investments Set out below is the group statement on internal control in accordance and monitors the performance of the executive, but has five principal with the guidance provided by the Turnbull Report and the Association committees to deal with specific aspects of the groups affairs.
BPB annual report 2003 The Board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal During the year BPB introduced a centrally co-ordinated internal audit control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this programme which uses both internal and external resource to support system.
Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and control the the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
significant risks associated with the groups achievement of its business objectives with a view to safeguarding shareholders investments and All acquired businesses are brought within the groups system of internal the groups assets.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any control as soon as practicable and in any event within twelve months system of internal control, this system is designed to manage rather than of acquisition.
Accordingly, such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period since 1 April 2002 and is The Board confirms that there is an on-going process for identifying, satisfied that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Report.
The assessment evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group and that included consideration of the effectiveness of the Boards on-going process it has been in place for the year ended 31 March 2003 and up to the date for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the group, and of approval of the annual report and accounts.
a review of the work of the group internal control manager in preparing regional and group-wide risk and control profiles.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To identify Further information on the companys system of internal controls is set out and manage key risks, it has established a number of group-wide procedures, in the operational and financial review on page 24 and the safety, ethics & policies and standards, has set up a framework for reporting and escalating environment report on page 25. matters of significance, has developed a system of regular reports from management setting out key performance and risk indicators and has Going concern reserved specific, key matters for its decision.
This process is designed After reviewing the groups financial resources and projected cash flows, to provide assurance by way of cumulative assessment and is embedded the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate in operational management and governance processes.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Key elements of the groups system of internal control which have the financial statements.
operated throughout the year are: Shareholder communications and voting pattern a clearly defined organisation structure with established responsibilities The Board recognises the importance of good communication with shareholders.
In addition to the interim and annual reports which are sent a simple and focused business strategy, thus restricting potential risk to all shareholders, there is a regular dialogue with individual institutional exposures shareholders, who also from time to time visit the groups operations.
There are also general stockbroker institutional analyst presentations each half group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies year, trading update announcements with associated conference calls each and procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour spring and autumn, and there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the chairman at the AGM.
The company responds as necessary continuous review of operating performance to letters from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
com, includes a section focusing specifically monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, including upon investors, and contains details of all parent company press releases.
monthly results, annual budgets, and periodic forecasts The Board noted in 2002 a welcome return to the recent trend of a growing approval by the Board of all major investments, with proposals being level of voting participation at BPB annual general meetings, with the total subject to rigorous strategic and commercial examination, and with number of shares voted by proxy as a proportion of the companys issued post-investment appraisals of all significant projects share capital increasing from 62% to 69%.
Details of the proxy votes cast for use at the 2003 AGM will be available at the meeting and will be regular review by the Board of the activities and performance of key displayed on the companys website as soon as possible thereafter.
risks that may impede meeting business objectives completion by business unit management of an annual finance compliance statement detailing controls in operation and listing any 33 weaknesses an audit committee for each region which meets at least annually assurance activities covering the key business risks summarised and reported annually to the audit committee or, where appropriate, the safety, ethics & environment committee regional businesses reviewing their significant risks and controls and updating the regional risk profiles produced from the profiling exercises and workshops for identifying, monitoring and managing risks conducted last year.
The updated regional risk profiles are presented to the audit committee and or Board consideration by the Board of a key, group-wide risk and control schedule BPB annual report 2003 REMUNERATION COMMITTEES REPORT The Committee and its remit It aims to follow best practice in relation to its remuneration policy and, BPBs management remuneration and development committee is primarily in particular, complies with the Combined Code.
responsible for determining and recommending, to the Board, the framework for executive remuneration and determining, on behalf of the In constructing and reviewing remuneration packages, the emphasis is Board and shareholders, the entire remuneration package of the executive on rewarding directors competitively for their contribution to the companys directors.
It also monitors salaries paid to other senior executives, decides overall performance and for enhancing value to shareholders, taking into on the grant of senior executive share option and share matching plan account market comparisons and the competitive pressures in the entitlements and supervises management development and succession construction and building materials sector.
External comparisons, including plans: when appropriate, the Committee also recommends candidates for annual assessments of the relevant senior executive remuneration market, executive directorship for consideration by the Board nomination committee.
look at comparable roles in similar organisations in terms of size, market sector and business complexity in the UK and overseas.
The remuneration of and fees paid to the chairman, deputy chairman and the non-executive directors are decided in line with market levels The strategy for executive director remuneration, in general terms, is by the Board, but with the relevant individuals abstaining as appropriate.
to provide a balanced package which includes base pay and benefits in kind at around the median market level for comparable industrial Committee members are Michael Beckett chairman to 23 July 2003, companies and performance-based incentives in the form of an annual Sir Ian Gibson chairman from that date and Franz Leibenfrost all of whom bonus opportunity, long-term share option arrangements and a share are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive directors matching plan which links a shorter term commitment by key managers together with Allan Gormly group chairman : they all bring a wide range to the longer term involvement inherent in share ownership.
The performanceof experience from other organisations and their biographies are shown on based incentives are capable of delivering upper quartile rewards for pages 28 and 29.
They have no personal financial interest other than as excellent and sustained performance.
Remuneration arrangements and shareholders in the matters to be decided by the Committee, no potential performance targets are reviewed on a regular basis to achieve this strategy.
conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The group secretary acts as secretary The Committee believes that share options remain the most suitable form to the Committee and the chief executive and director of group human of primary long-term incentive for the company: their relative simplicity resources normally attend meetings, at the invitation of the Committee, remains attractive bearing in mind BPBs growing international spread to provide information and advice.
The Committee also has access to of managers and, along with the UK SAYE share option schemes and share professional advice from the Hay Group, New Bridge Street Consultants, ownership plan, they have in the past generally proved to be successful Watson Wyatt and the Monks Partnership, all leading independent motivators in aligning the interests of employees and shareholders and remuneration consultants who have been appointed by the Committee.
in enabling employees to share in the long-term success of the group, The first three also provide advice to the company on salary matters, share without delivering excessive benefits.
schemes and pensions respectively, including implementation of policies agreed by the Committee.
Elements of remuneration Executive directors are entitled to: Compliance In August 2002, the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations came into base salary and benefits in kind which are generally reviewed with force.
The regulations, which have been incorporated into the Companies effect from 1 April each year.
Individual salaries and any increases are Act 1985, introduced a new statutory disclosure regime on directors dependent upon a number of factors: the size and nature of the job, remuneration which is to apply alongside the requirements of the Combined individual performance and experience, comparator group relativities, Code on corporate governance annexed to the listing rules of the Financial BPBs performance and the policies adopted for other groups of staff Services Authority.
Benefits include a company car or equivalent cash allowance, pension, health insurance and, where appropriate, relocation The regulations also introduced a new requirement that a resolution be assistance, all in line with entitlements provided for executives in similar put to shareholders each year to approve the remuneration committees positions in comparable industrial companies: report.
A resolution putting this report to such a vote is set out in the notice of annual general meeting which accompanies this annual report annual bonus opportunity based upon specific and challenging targets and accounts.
This will be an advisory vote on the report as a whole.
which are objective and measurable, agreed at the start of each financial year and weighted to reflect each participants role within The constitution and operation of the Committee complied throughout the the group: the Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, also year with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the Combined award discretionary bonuses, but none were awarded during the year.
Any changes to the latter as a result of the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, which was published in The annual bonus opportunity generally comprises four elements: January 2003, will be taken into account once they have been finalised.
a regional component, a group of key performance indicator measures, a corporate component and personal objectives.
Payments for regional Decisions and recommendations of the Committee are reported to the Board, performance are related to relevant operational results typically and this report is submitted to shareholders by the Committee on behalf of operating profit and cash flow, with awards made in return for the Board to describe the companys arrangements for directors remuneration achievement above target.
The key performance indicators measure in the context of the Companies Act 1985, the principles of Section 1 of the performance related to factors such as safety records, production, Combined Code and the provisions of the code of best practice.
overhead and customer service levels, with payments being made for achievement of stretching targets.
The corporate component usually Remuneration policy the largest single element of bonus remains geared to group underlying The Committee seeks to ensure that the companys remuneration policies earnings per share, with bonuses only being generated above and practices facilitate the employment and motivation of high calibre a demanding threshold level: 2002 03 targets were based on the personnel with the appropriate skills to implement the groups business earnings per share figure calculated before goodwill amortisation, the objectives, while also relating reward to performance and aligning the European Commission fine, impairment charges and other exceptional interests of directors and senior executives with those of shareholders.
An element of each directors maximum entitlement is geared towards achievement of clearly defined personal objectives, including BPB annual report 2003 annual bonus opportunity continued amongst the relatively small group of executive directors and other cost reduction targets.
Apart from this, the bonuses of Richard Cousins, senior executives invited to participate, thereby encouraging participants Paul Hollingworth and Bob Heard are related only to the earnings per to focus on long-term share price performance in addition to shortershare and key performance indicator measures, while all other directors term bonus targets: also have a regional element.
Specific targets are not disclosed as they would give a clear indication of the groups budgetary targets, which are share option allocations under the companys various equity price sensitive.
BPB policy is generally to grant options over shares under the senior executive scheme approved by shareholders Bonuses, which are all payable in cash, are disclosed for the year in in 2001 the 2001 plan with a value up to two times earnings in any which they are earned although they are not due and payable until June year, although grants of options in excess of this limit may be made in the following year except that Paul Hollingworth received 75,000 where the executive agrees to satisfy the employers National Insurance of his 2002 03 bonus on 31 July 2002, and they are not pensionable.
Contribution liability arising on the exercise of options, or if the Committee Maximum performance-related bonus targets are set at 60% of base and Board decide that this is justified in the circumstances of recruitment, salary for executive directors and 70% for the chief executive, with or in other exceptional circumstances.
While the Committee believes that generally lower limits being applicable to other senior executives.
the individual annual limit of two times earnings is appropriate and in Bonuses actually earned by executive directors in 2002 03 averaged line with market practice, only the most senior participants in the 2001 43.9% 2002 49.6% : plan are likely to receive rewards at this level, with less senior executives receiving lower levels of grant commensurate with seniority and share matching plan allocations awarded under a BPB plan whereby performance.
Exercise of all options will be subject to the achievement each year eligible directors and selected senior executives are invited of a performance condition.
To focus executive directors on generating to invest up to half of their actual cash bonus net of deductions in real cash flow and earnings growth, BPBs earnings per share EPS must the companys shares.
In return, participants are granted a matching grow by at least an annual average of three percentage points over the award over a number of shares equal in value to the amount of bonus growth in the UK RPI for a period of at least three years measured from invested before deductions.
Provided the executive remains in a fixed base beginning at the end of the financial year last preceding the employment, the matching awards are normally exercisable after three date of grant, and any grants with a value greater than one-times years, but only if the shares purchased with the bonus have not been earnings in a year, in respect of the excess, require EPS growth to exceed sold: any such exercise will give rise to an income tax and national the UK RPI by at least an annual average of four percentage points over insurance liability based upon their value at that time.
If either test is not met within six years of the date of grant the relevant option will lapse.
EPS is determined in accordance with In this way each executive is invited to commit part of his earned FRS14 adjusted to exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional items performance-tested bonus for a three year period in return for additional as disclosed in the groups annual accounts for the relevant period.
Vesting of the matching award will unless it The Committee believes this approach constitutes a stretching target amounts to less than 20% of base salary when granted depend upon given the cyclical nature of the building materials industry and BPBs EPS BPBs relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
TSR measures performance history: while options granted under the 2001 plan have not the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period reached their first potential exercise date, those granted in 1998, 1999 of measurement.
and 2000 have not yet met the 2% performance target contained in the previous senior executive scheme.
The 2001 plan also affords beneficial BPBs TSR performance will be compared to that of a group of 19 major tax and social security charge treatment for share options granted to UK and international building materials companies over a three year participants who are resident in France, including Jean-Pierre Clavel, period and matching awards will only vest if BPB ranks above the provided certain criteria are met as to the setting of the price at which median performance.
Measuring the companys performance against options are granted and the exercise period during which such options the comparator companies recognises the importance for shareholders are exercisable normally only exercisable from the fourth anniversary of that the company outperforms its peers and seeks to align executives the date of grant.
interests with those of shareholders.
The preparation and calculation of such comparison will be determined by the Committee with the Executive directors are eligible to participate in the companys SAYE assistance of independent remuneration consultants.
scheme, which is open to all UK employees with at least one years service.
It permits the grant of options to acquire ordinary shares in The composition of the comparator group is reviewed annually by the the company at a discount of up to 20% of the share price at the time Committee.
The current group of comparator companies applicable of invitation and is linked to a bank save-as-you-earn contract.
for 2003 04 awards comprises: 35 Executive directors are also eligible to participate in the BPB UK Aggregate Industries plc Boral Ltd Employee Share Ownership Plan.
This is an Inland Revenue approved Cemex SA fide CV Centex Corporation plan and is open to all UK employees with at least 18 months service.
Compagnie fide Saint-Gobain SA CRH plc The plan permits the purchase of existing BPB shares from pre-tax salary CSR Ltd Hanson plc on a monthly basis at prevailing market prices, subject to a maximum Heidelberger Cement AG Holcim Ltd spend of 125 per month.
James Hardie Industries Ltd Kingspan Group plc Lafarge SA Novar plc The Company complies with the ABIs dilution limits restricting the Pilkington plc RMC Group plc number of new shares which can be issued in pursuance of awards SIG plc Travis Perkins plc granted under all of the companys employee share schemes in a Wolseley plc 10-year period to 10% of the companys ordinary share capital in issue from time to time, and with the 5% in 10 years limit for executive schemes: The Committee continues to believe that the vesting of awards at the more modest levels of less than 20% of base salary at date of grant pension provision except in the case of Jean-Pierre Clavel - see note should not be subject to performance conditions as the investment of iv on page 37 of up to two-thirds of their final years base salary at the bonus payment on which the awards are based has itself already the normal retirement age of 60 less than two-thirds where service to been performance tested.
The scheme has attracted a high take-up rate age 60 is below 20 years under the BPB senior executive pension BPB annual report 2003 REMUNERATION COMMITTEES REPORT Year to 31 March 2003 2002 2003 2002 Salary Other Directors fees Bonus emoluments Total Total Pensions Pensions emoluments 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman AG Gormly 160 160 148 Deputy chairman from 21.5.
02 21 21 Lady Balfour of Burleigh 35 35 28 ME Beckett 35 35 32 M Clark 35 35 35 FJ Leibenfrost 30 30 28 Sir John Whitehead to 24.7.
02 10 10 32 Former directors 43 43 117 Total emoluments 2,075 736 174 2,985 2,646 283 305 2002 analysis 1,861 707 78 i The table above contains the total emoluments of the directors for the year to 31 March 2003: the figure for other emoluments has more than doubled principally due to the inclusion of the one-off payment referred to in note ii, and the total for bonuses paid is higher than last year only because of the guaranteed minimum payment also referred to in note ii ii Paul Hollingworths emoluments include a one-off payment of 75,000 in recompense for the loss suffered when joining BPB on gains on share options under his previous employers executive share option scheme which will be repayable on a pro rata basis in the event of cessation before 31 July 2003 and a guaranteed minimum bonus payment of 50% of his base salary of 280,000 for 2002 03 iii With the exception of Jean-Pierre Clavel see note iv on page 37, the pension benefits represent the contributions paid by the company on the basis of the full service cost, as advised by actuaries of 33% of salary for the period up to 3 October 2002 and following a review of contribution arrangements 35% of salary from 4 October 2002, for the funded entitlements explained in the notes on pension provision set out on pages 35 and 36 iv John Goodall, who retired on 31 October 2000, had a two year consultancy agreement up to 31 October 2002 under which he was paid an annual retainer of 56,250 and David Leonard had an agreement providing strategic consultancy fees of 1,000 per month for 18 months up to 31 January 2003: payments made under these arrangements are disclosed under former directors v On leaving the company on 30 June 2002, Peter Sydney-Smith received a lump sum of 364,000 and is entitled to receive a further payment of 89,536 in September 2003 although this will be reduced or extinguished to take account of any earnings actually received since the date of his leaving.
He also received 54,000 in respect of a consultancy agreement which terminated in December 2002.
His 2002 03 bonus of 25,073 was earned for the period up to 30 June 2002 vi The interest-free housing loan granted to Bob Heard prior to his appointment as a director was repaid in full by him in March 2003: the amount of 7,411 outstanding at 1 April 2002 represented the maximum amount outstanding during the year to 31 March 2003 pension provision continued scheme are restricted by the operation of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
scheme, a tax approved, defined benefit, fully-funded scheme, subject Such executive directors receive an additional unfunded pension entitlement 36 to an independent trust under which contributions are payable by the from the company on an equivalent basis to compensate for the shortfall.
Directors may retire and draw their pensions earlier than age 60, in which case the pensions payable will be reduced by Service agreements approximately 4% for each year early.
On death before retirement a In accordance with the Combined Code, the Committee decided in lump sum of four times the annual rate of base salary is provided 1999 that, notwithstanding the possible necessity to offer a longer initial together with a spouses financial dependants pension of two-thirds of period immediately following appointment, new executive directors will the directors prospective pension at age 60: a pension of two-thirds of be employed on a contract that can be terminated by the company on the directors pre-commutation pension is payable on death after giving one years notice, with the director required to give not less than retirement.
Child allowances of up to one-third of the directors six months notice of termination.
Contracts on this basis some with longer prospective or actual pension at age 60 are payable on death both initial notice periods were granted to Richard Cousins, Mark Higson before and after retirement.
Once in payment, pensions are guaranteed to and Paul Withers on 31 March 2001 and Paul Hollingworth on 1 July 2002, increase in line with inflation up to a maximum of 5% per annum or each of which is now terminable by the company on one years notice.
higher if the Board agrees.
Bob Heard, who was appointed prior to the adoption of this policy, has a contract granted on 1 June 1995 which is terminable on 18 months For executive directors who entered service after 31 May 1989, the notice, with six months notice of termination required from him.
His benefits which can be provided under the BPB senior executive pension company notice period has previously been reduced from three years
