HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Remuneration is an important component in peoples decisions on which company to join, but it The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to is not the only one: it is HSBCs experience that consider human resource issues, particularly terms people are attracted to an organisation with good and conditions of employment, remuneration, values, fairness, the potential for success and the retirement benefits, development of high potential scope to develop a broad, interesting career.
employees and key succession planning.
During 2003, the members of the Remuneration Within the authority delegated by the Board of Committee were Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Directors, the Remuneration Committee is Chairman, W K L Fung and Sir John Kempresponsible for determining the remuneration Welch, all of whom are independent non-executive policy of HSBC including the terms of bonus Directors.
S Hintze, an independent non-executive plans, share option plans and other long-term Director, was appointed a member of the incentive plans, and for agreeing the individual Committee on 30 January 2004. remuneration packages of executive Directors and other senior Group employees.
No Directors are There were eight meetings of the involved in deciding their own remuneration.
All of the members attended each of these meetings.
The The Remuneration Committee applies the terms of reference of the Committee are available following key principles: on www.
com by selecting About HSBC, to ensure that remuneration is competitive in then Board of Directors, then Board relation to comparative organisations in each Committees.
of the countries or regions in which HSBC During 2003, the Committee conducted a operates: review of external specialist remuneration to offer fair and realistic salaries with an consultants.
After a rigorous selection process, the important element of variable pay based on Committee retained the services of Towers Perrin, relative performance: a firm of specialist human resources consultants, who provide independent advice on executive to have as many top-performers as possible at remuneration issues.
A further selection process all levels within HSBC participating in some will take place in 2006.
As a global firm, Towers form of long-term share plan: and Perrin also provide other remuneration, actuarial since 1996, to follow a policy of moving and retirement consulting services to various parts progressively from defined benefit to defined of HSBC.
Other than the provision of expert advice contribution Group pension schemes for new in these areas to the Remuneration Committee and employees only.
to HSBC, Towers Perrin have no connection with HSBC.
Other consultants are used from time to In line with these principles: time to validate their findings.
The Remuneration employees salaries are reviewed annually in Committee also receives advice from the Group the context of individual and business General Manager, Group Human Resources and performance, market practice, internal the Senior Executive, Group Reward Management.
relativities and competitive market pressures.
Allowances and benefits are largely General Policy on Employees determined by local market practice: As with most businesses, HSBCs performance employees participate in various bonus depends on the quality and commitment of its arrangements.
Accordingly, the Boards stated strategy is related variable pay depends upon the to attract, retain and motivate the very best people.
performance of HSBC Holdings, constituent In a business that is based on trust and businesses and the individual concerned.
Key relationships, HSBCs broad policy is to look for measures of success include: achievement of people who want to make a long-term career with financial goals, encompassing both revenue the organisation since trust and relationships are generation and expense control: customer built over time.
relationships: full utilisation of professional 213 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued skills: and adherence to HSBCs ethical share-based remuneration.
HSBC has a long history of paying proposed changes for shareholder approval, the close attention to its customers in order to Committee will ensure appropriate consultation is provide value for shareholders.
This undertaken with shareholders and their has been achieved by ensuring that the representatives.
interests of HSBC and its employees are aligned with those of its shareholders and that Directors and Senior Management HSBCs approach to risk management serves HSBCs operations are substantial, diverse and the interests of all.
Closer alignment with the international: for example, over 74 per cent of net interests of shareholders continues to be income is derived from outside the United achieved through the promotion and extension Kingdom.
of employee participation in the existing share HSBC Holdings Board is currently composed plans.
of 14 non-executive Directors and eight executive Bonus ranges are reviewed in the context of Directors.
With businesses in 79 countries and prevailing market practice and overall territories, HSBC aims to attract Directors with a remuneration: and variety of experience, in both its key markets and internationally.
The Board currently includes in order to align the interests of employees nationals of seven different countries.
The eight with those of shareholders, employees executive Directors, four Group Managing generally are eligible to be considered for Directors and 27 Group General Managers have in discretionary awards of share options under total more than 900 years of service with HSBC.
the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
For the majority of employees, the vesting of Directors fees share awards under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan is subject to the attainment Directors fees are regularly reviewed and of TSR targets full details are set out on pages compared with other large international companies.
Separate transitional The current fee, which was approved by arrangements are currently in place for shareholders in 2000, is 35,000 per annum.
Recent developments in corporate governance and reporting obligations, and the expansion of In addition, to allow more employees to HSBCs business, continue to increase the participate in the success they help to create, commitment required of Directors.
In accordance employees may also participate in the HSBC with the recommendations of an independent Holdings savings-related share option plans external review, the approval of shareholders will and in local share ownership and profit sharing be sought at the 2004 Annual General Meeting for arrangements.
the basic fee to be increased to 55,000 per annum The impact on existing equity of granting with effect from 1 January 2004. share options which are to be satisfied by the issue In addition, non-executive Directors receive, of new shares is shown in diluted earnings per with effect from 1 January 2004, the following share on the face of the consolidated profit and loss fees: account, with further details disclosed in Note 11 of the Notes on the Financial Statements.
The Chairman, Audit Committee 40,000 p. a.
Member, Audit Committee 15,000 p. a. effect on basic earnings per share of exercising all outstanding share options would be to dilute it by During 2003, five Audit Committee meetings were held.
A Directors commitment to each meeting, including 0.40 per cent.
preparatory reading and review, can be up to 15 hours.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to Chairman, Remuneration Committee 20,000 p. a. respond to the variety of environments and Member, Remuneration Committee 15,000 p. a. circumstances which are faced by different During 2003, eight meetings of the Remuneration Committee businesses in different markets at different times.
During 2004, the Committee will conduct a Chairman, Nomination Committee 20,000 p. a. comprehensive and fundamental review of all Member, Nomination Committee 15,000 p. a.
214 The Nomination Committee met once during 2003.
The terms entirely dependent on performance.
Remuneration of reference of the Committee have been broadened policy for executive Directors is intended to substantially and more meetings will be held in 2004 and provide competitive rates of base salary but with future years.
the potential for the majority of the value of the Chairman, Corporate Social remuneration package to be delivered in the form Responsibility Committee 20,000 p. a. of both short and long-term incentives.
This Member, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 15,000 p. a. typically results in base salary comprising around 40 per cent of total direct pay and the remaining 60 This Committee first met in February 2004 and will meet on per cent split equally between annual bonus and the a quarterly basis.
expected value of Performance Share awards.
The Executive Directors are normally permitted to remuneration package of W F Aldinger has a retain only one Directors fee from HSBC.
For smaller proportion of fixed salary and a higher example, executive Directors who are also proportion of annual bonus and Restricted Share Directors of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking awards.
The awards are in accordance with the Corporation Limited may elect to receive a fee minimum level of awards set out under his from either HSBC Holdings or The Hongkong and employment agreement entered into at the time of Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Each component of executive Directors Executive Directors remuneration is explained in detail below.
The The executive Directors are experienced executives current approach and structure of remuneration has with detailed knowledge of the financial services been in place since 2000 and the Committee business in various countries.
In most cases there believes it has served HSBC well.
The Committee has been a need to attract them from abroad to has, however, made the following modifications to work in the United Kingdom.
the performance condition for future awards of Performance Shares under the HSBC Holdings Having regard to the broad international nature Restricted Share Plan 2000 in order to make the of the Group, the annual market survey of senior condition more relevant and long-lasting: executive remuneration takes into account not only remuneration data in the UK but also in other the elimination of any re-testing provision so overseas markets.
that awards lapse if the performance condition is not satisfied after the initial three-year Consistent with the principles applied by the performance period: and Committee to employees generally, there are four key components to the executive Directors a change to the benchmark group set out on remuneration: page 217 to make it more relevant as a benchmark against which HSBCs salary: performance is measured.
annual cash bonus: The use of Performance Shares and the HSBC long-term incentives: and Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 will fall within the Committees review of share-based pension.
remuneration to be undertaken in 2004.
The Committee generally provides, on a discretionary basis, long-term share incentives to Salary executive Directors and members of senior The Committee reviews salary levels for executive management through conditional awards of Directors each year in the same context as other Performance Shares under the HSBC Holdings employees.
With respect to market practice and Restricted Share Plan 2000 rather than through the taking account of the international nature of the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, as Group, the Committee benchmarks the salary of explained under Long-term incentive plan below.
each Director and member of Senior Management The level of awards available to the executive against those of comparable executives in large, Directors under the annual cash bonus scheme and diverse companies.
the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 is 215 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Base salaries with effect from April 2004 will Awards be: In recent years the Remuneration Committee has adopted a policy that the face value of annual W F Aldinger............................................. US$1,000,000 awards of Performance Shares to executive Sir John Bond............................................ 1,202,800 W R P Dalton............................................ 521,500 Directors and members of Senior Management will D G Eldon................................................. US$290,340 not as a general rule exceed 100 per cent of D J Flint..................................................... 462,500 earnings defined as base salary and bonus in M F Geoghegan......................................... 575,000 respect of the previous performance year.
the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 As an International Manager, D G Eldons have not received awards under the HSBC current base salary, shown above, is calculated on a Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
The The Trustee to the Plan will be provided with Remuneration Committee has discretion to funds to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at eliminate extraordinary items when assessing an appropriate time after the announcement of the bonuses, if the main cause did not arise during the annual results.
The 2004 conditional awards current bonus year.
proposed for executive Directors and members of Measurement against these key performance Senior Management in respect of 2003 will have an factors may, exceptionally, result in discretionary aggregate value at the date of award of cash bonuses up to 250 per cent of basic salary.
2003, bonuses have ranged from 60 per cent to Under the terms of his employment agreement 250 per cent of base salary, with all but two of the entered into at the time of the acquisition of executive Directors and members of Senior Household, W F Aldinger will receive an award of Management receiving discretionary bonuses of US$5.5 million which will be used to purchase less than 110 per cent of base salary.
Restricted Shares in HSBC Holdings.
These Restricted Shares are not subject to the TSR Long term incentive plan performance conditions set out on pages 217 to The HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 is 219.
One-third of this award of Restricted Shares the principal long-term incentive plan used to will vest on each of the three anniversaries reward the delivery of sustained financial growth following the date of grant.
So as to align the interests of C F W fide Croisset, who retired from HSBC on the Directors and senior employees more closely 29 February 2004, has not received any awards of with those of shareholders, the vesting of Performance Shares under the HSBC Holdings Performance Share awards is subject to the Restricted Share Plan since the acquisition of CCF attainment of a predetermined TSR target.
Rather, in accordance with the arrangements agreed with CCF in 2000, Mr fide Croisset received share option awards under the 216 HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
The international scope, this peer group has been awards in 2001 and 2002 were not subject to amended for conditional awards made in 2004 performance conditions: 50 per cent of the award and onwards by the replacement of Lloyds made in 2003 was subject to the TSR performance TSB Group plc, Oversea-Chinese Banking conditions set out below.
Corporation Ltd. Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. and The Bank of East Asia Limited W R P Dalton, who is to retire at the Annual with Bank of America Corporation, The Royal General Meeting on 28 May 2004, will not receive Bank of Scotland plc, Banco Santander an award of Performance Shares under the HSBC Central Hispano S. A. and UBS AG: Holdings Restricted Share Plan in 2004.
2. the five largest banks from each of the US, the Performance conditions UK, continental Europe and the Far East, other than any within paragraph 1 above, weighted From 1999, the vesting of awards has been linked by market capitalisation: and to the attainment of predetermined TSR targets as set out below.
3. the banking sector of the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index, excluding Particulars of executive Directors interests in any within paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 above, shares held in the Restricted Share Plan are set out weighted by market capitalisation.
By combining the weighted average TSR for TSR is defined as the growth in share value each of the above three groups and weighting that and declared dividend income, measured in average so that 50 per cent is applied to sterling, during the relevant period.
In calculating paragraph 1, 25 per cent is applied to paragraph 2 TSR, dividend income is assumed to be reinvested and 25 per cent is applied to paragraph 3, an in the underlying shares.
appropriate single TSR benchmark for market The TSR performance condition for awards of comparison is determined.
Performance Shares under the Restricted Share The extent to which awards will vest will be Plan remained the same from 1999 to 2003, the determined by reference to HSBC Holdings TSR five years of the Managing for Value strategy.
For measured against the TSR benchmark.
The awards made in 2004, changes have been made to calculation of the share price component within the peer group as described below and re-testing HSBC Holdings TSR will be the average market provisions have been eliminated so that awards price over the 20 trading days commencing on the will lapse if the performance condition is not day when the annual results are announced, which satisfied after the initial three-year performance in 2004 is 1 March.
The starting point will be, period.
therefore, the average over the period 1 to 26 Having regard to HSBC Holdings size and March inclusive.
TSR for the benchmark status within the financial sector, a benchmark for constituents will be based on their published share HSBC Holdings TSR has been established which prices on 26 March 2004. takes account of the TSR performance of: If HSBC Holdings TSR over the performance 1. a peer group of nine banks weighted by market period exceeds the benchmark TSR, awards with a capitalisation which are considered most value, at the date of grant, of up to 100 per cent of relevant to HSBC in terms of size and the individuals earnings, will vest.
For performance periods value awards, the greater of 50 per cent of the up to and including the one beginning in 2003, award or the number of shares equating at the date this group comprised ABN AMRO Holding of grant to 100 per cent of the individuals N. V. The Bank of East Asia Limited, earnings, will vest at this level of performance.
If Citigroup Inc. Deutsche Bank A. G. J P HSBC Holdings TSR over the performance period Morgan Chase & Co. Lloyds TSB Group plc, places it within the upper quartile in the ranked list Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. against the benchmark, these higher value awards Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Ltd. will vest in full.
For performance between the and Standard Chartered plc.
To be more median and the upper quartile, vesting will be on a relevant to HSBC in terms of size and straight line basis.
217 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued For awards made in 2004 and thereafter, under Awards will vest immediately in cases of the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 death.
The Remuneration Committee retains only, the initial performance period will be three discretion to recommend early release of the shares years from the date of grant.
As before, if the upper to the plan Trustee in certain instances, e. g. in the quartile performance target is achieved, an event of redundancy, retirement on grounds of additional award equal to 20 per cent of the initial injury or ill health, early retirement, retirement on Performance Share award will be made and will or after contractual retirement or if the business is vest at the same time as the original award to no longer part of HSBC Holdings.
Awards will which it relates.
However, regardless of whether normally be forfeited if the participant is dismissed the upper quartile is achieved, full vesting and or resigns from HSBC.
transfer of the shares will not generally occur until Where events occur which cause the the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
If the Remuneration Committee to consider that the performance test is not passed at the third performance condition has become unfair or anniversary, the shares will be forfeited.
impractical, the right is reserved to the As a secondary condition, options and awards Remuneration Committee to make such will only vest if the Remuneration Committee is adjustments as in its absolute discretion it deems satisfied that HSBC Holdings financial appropriate to make.
performance has shown a sustained improvement in the period since the date of grant.
Pension In determining whether HSBC has achieved a The pension entitlements earned by the executive sustained improvement in performance the Directors during the year are set out on pages 224 Remuneration Committee will take account of, and 225. among other factors, the comparison against history and the peer group in the following areas: 1. revenue growth: 2. revenue mix: 3. cost efficiency: 4. credit performance as measured by riskadjusted revenues: and 5. cash return on cash invested, dividend performance and total shareholder return.
218 Total Shareholder Return Times-Stock Exchange FTSE 100 Index graph 2, the Morgan Stanley Capital International Graph 1 below shows HSBC Holdings TSR MSCI World Index graph 3 and Morgan performance against the benchmark TSR.
Pursuant Stanley Capital International MSCI Financials to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Index graph 4.
These measures have been chosen 2002, the following graphs show HSBC Holdings as they are the main published indices against TSR performance against the Financial which HSBC monitors its performance.
After appointment each of the second and third anniversaries of the effective date, subject to the approval of the HSBCs policy is to employ executive Directors on Trustee of the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share one-year rolling contracts although, on recruitment, Plan 2000, Mr Aldinger will receive an additional longer initial terms may be approved by the grant of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares with a Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration value equal to at least US$5.5 million.
The purpose Committee will, consistent with the best interests of these arrangements is to retain the services of of the Group, seek to minimise termination Mr Aldinger through the initial integration of payments.
HSBC considers it is essential that the No executive Director has a service contract experience, knowledge and skills of Mr Aldinger with HSBC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries with be retained for the benefit of HSBC shareholders.
a notice period in excess of one year or with If Mr Aldingers employment is terminated by provisions for predetermined compensation on him during its term for good reason, or by termination which exceeds one years salary and Household for reasons other than cause or benefits in kind, save as referred to below.
There disability, he will be entitled to: a pro rata target are no provisions for compensation upon early annual bonus for the financial year of the date of termination of executive Directors service termination: a payment equal to his annual base contracts save for W F Aldinger and C F W fide salary, plus the average of his annual bonuses with Croisset, details of which are set out below.
respect to the three-year period ended 2001, times Mr Aldinger entered into a new employment the number of full and partial months from the date agreement with Household on 14 November 2002 of termination until the third anniversary of the for a term of three years, such term to commence effective date, divided by twelve: the immediate on the effective date of the acquisition of vesting and exercisability of each stock option, Household by HSBC.
Full details of the agreement restricted stock award and other equity-based were set out in the Discloseable Transaction award or performance award or cash equivalent Circular relating to the acquisition of Household that is outstanding as at the date of termination and sent to shareholders on 26 February 2003 in treatment as retirement eligible for purposes of advance of the Extraordinary General Meeting to exercising any such award: for the remainder of his approve the acquisition.
The terms of the life and that of his current spouse, continued employment agreement, which were an integral medical and dental benefits at Households cost: part of the Household acquisition that shareholders and his retirement benefits as set out on page 224 approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting, in a lump sum.
The effective date of acquisition, Sir John Bond is employed on a rolling and commencement date of the contract, was contract dated 1 January 1993 which requires 12 28 March 2003. months notice to be given by either party.
During the term of the agreement Mr Aldinger C F W fide Croisset has a contract of will be paid an annual base salary equal to his employment dated 7 January 1980 that was in annual base salary as at the date of the merger force before he joined the Board of CCF.
The agreement between Household and HSBC contract has no set term but provides for three US$1 million and an annual bonus in an amount months notice to be given by either party.
Under at least equal to the annual average of the terms of the contract Mr fide Croisset would be Mr Aldingers bonuses earned with respect to the entitled to receive one month's salary for each year three-year period ended 2001 pro rated for any of service with CCF on termination of his partial year US$4 million.
Within 30 days of the employment with CCF.
In accordance with French effective date, Mr Aldinger received a one-time legal requirements and practice, this contract was special retention grant of HSBC Holdings ordinary suspended while he served as an executive Director shares under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share of CCF.
On 29 February 2004, Mr fide Croisset took Plan 2000 with a value equal to US$10 million.
early retirement from the Group, relinquishing his These Restricted Shares will vest in three equal role as Chairman and CEO of CCF.
In light of instalments on each of the first three anniversaries French legal requirements a review of market 220 practice was undertaken and it was agreed that a Other directorships one-off payment of 2,427,000 would be made by Executive Directors, if so authorised by the Board, CCF to Mr fide Croisset, which is considered to be may accept appointments as non-executive appropriate in all the circumstances.
He will also Directors of suitable companies which are not part receive a pension as set out on page 224. of HSBC.
Executive Directors normally would be W R P Dalton is employed on a rolling permitted to take on no more than one such contract dated 5 January 1998 which requires 12 appointment.
Any remuneration receivable in months notice to be given by either party.
respect of this appointment is normally paid to the HSBC company by which the executive Director is D G Eldon is employed on a rolling contract employed, unless otherwise approved by the dated 1 January 1968 which requires three months Remuneration Committee.
notice to be given by either party.
Sir John Bond retains his fees as a D J Flint is employed on a rolling contract non-executive director of the Ford Motor dated 29 September 1995 which requires 12 Company, which are provided partly in the form of months notice to be given by the Company and restricted shares, which become unrestricted over a nine months notice to be given by Mr Flint.
During 2003 the fees received M F Geoghegan, who is to stand for rewere US$83,000 in cash and US$35,000 deferred election at the forthcoming Annual General into Ford common stock units.
In addition, Ford Meeting, is employed on a rolling contract which provides US$200,000 of life assurance and requires 12 months notice to be given by either US$500,000 of accidental death or dismemberment party.
The life assurance can be continued after retirement from the Board or Sir John Bond S K Green is employed on a rolling contract could elect to have it reduced to US$100,000 and dated 9 March 1998 which requires 12 months receive US$15,000 a year for life.
The accidental notice to be given by either party.
death or dismemberment insurance ends upon A W Jebson is employed on a rolling contract retirement from the Board.
dated 14 January 2000 which requires 12 months W F Aldinger retains his fees as a nonnotice to be given by either party.
executive director of Illinois Tool Works, Inc. and Members of Senior Management are employed as a non-executive director of AT&T Corp. During on service contracts which generally provide for a 2003 the fee received from Illinois Tool Works, term of service expiring at the end of a period of up Inc. was US$60,800 in the form of deferred stock to two years, or the individuals sixtieth birthday, and the fee received from AT&T Corp. was whichever is earlier.
US$26,500 in cash and US$15,000 in the form of deferred shares.
In addition, AT&T Corp. provide Non-executive Directors are appointed for travel accident insurance when on AT&T Corp. fixed terms not exceeding three years, subject to company business and US$100,000 of life their re-election by shareholders at subsequent assurance.
Non-executive Directors have no service contract and are not eligible to participate in HSBCs share plans.
Nonexecutive Directors terms of appointment will expire as follows: in 2005 Baroness Dunn and H Sohmen: in 2006 Sir John Kemp-Welch, S W Newton, C S Taylor and Sir Brian Williamson: and in 2007 Lord Butler, R K F Chien, R A Fairhead, W K L Fung, S Hintze, Sir Brian Moffat and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
221 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Employees emoluments The basic salaries of Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers are within the Set out below is information in respect of the five following bands: individuals who are not Directors of HSBC Number of Holdings whose emoluments excluding Group Managing commissions or bonuses related to the revenue or Directors and Group profits generated by employees individually or General Managers collectively with others engaged in similar 150,001 250,000...................... 9 250,001 350,000...................... 14 activities were the highest in HSBC for the year 350,001 450,000...................... 7 ended 31 December 2003.
Bonuses paid or receivable............................ 30,117 Inducements to join paid or receivable........... 5,653 The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to Compensation for loss of office provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for contractual................................................. Directors and Senior Management for the year other.......................................................... ended 31 December 2003 was US$4,321,000.
Total.............................................................. 37,232 At 31 December 2003, executive Directors and Total US$000.............................................. 60,836 Senior Management held, in aggregate, options to Their emoluments are within the following subscribe for 5,656,876 HSBC Holdings ordinary bands: shares under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme, HSBC Holdings Group Share Number of Option Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related Employees 4,100,001 4,200,000................ 1 share option plans.
2 These discretionary bonuses are in respect of 2003 and will be paid in 2004.
W F Aldingers guaranteed minimum bonus of US$4,000,000 has been prorated in respect of the period from 25 April 2003 the date of his appointment to 31 December 2003.
W F Aldinger has elected to waive any fees payable to him by HSBC Holdings 2003: 23,300.
4 In return for the prior waiver of bonus, the employer contribution into the pension scheme has been increased by the amount of 1,250,000 2002: 400,000 which would otherwise have been paid.
5 The emoluments of D G Eldon include housing and other expatriate benefits in kind that are normal within the location in which he is employed.
7 Includes fees as non-executive Chairman of HSBC Private Equity Asia Limited and as a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
8 Includes fee as a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
9 Fees as a non-executive Director and member of the Audit Committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
H Sohmen has elected to waive any fees payable to him by HSBC Holdings 2003: 35,000 2002: 35,000.
10 Includes fee as a non-executive Director of HSBC Bank USA.
223 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Audited Information Scheme.
The pensions accrue at a rate of onethirtieth of pensionable salary per year of Pensions pensionable service in the UK.
There are separate schemes for UK-based and Until his retirement from CCF on 29 February overseas-based employees: the UK scheme has a 2004, C F W fide Croisset was eligible for pension normal retirement age of 60: retirement ages for benefits which were supplementary to those accrued overseas schemes vary in accordance with local under the French State and Compulsory legislation and practice.
Save as stated below no arrangements.
The amount of this supplementary other Director participated in any HSBC pension pension, payable from age 60, accrued at the rate of schemes, none of the Directors participating in 6,098 per annum for each year of service HSBCs UK approved pension schemes is subject maximum 18 years as an executive Director of to the earnings cap introduced by the 1989 Finance CCF.
Consequent upon Mr fide Croissets early Act and only basic salary is pensionable.
With four retirement from CCF and following a review of exceptions see paragraphs below on W F Aldinger, market practice, it has been agreed to provide a total C F W fide Croisset, D J Flint and W R P Dalton, the pension of 341,467 per annum equivalent to executive Directors are members of defined benefit 32.5 per cent of his average total cash compensation pension schemes, having joined HSBC at a time over a three-year period payable from 1 March when these were the norm.
The whole cost of this pension is met by CCF.
Before commencement of his new employment The pension arrangements for W R P Dalton to agreement on 28 March 2003, W F Aldinger contractual retirement age of 60 are provided on a participated in Households qualified and defined benefit basis details of which are set out in non-qualified defined benefit pension plans.
The the table below under the HSBC Canada Pension annual pension benefit under these arrangements was Plan A, at an accrual rate of one-thirtieth of a function of service and a percentage of Final pensionable salary per year of pensionable service Average Earnings which included bonus.
The until his transfer to the UK in 1998.
Since taking up non-qualified plans were enhanced before his appointment in the UK, he has joined the HSBC commencement of Mr Aldingers new employment Holdings Overseas No.
1 Pension Plan on a defined agreement.
The benefits under the qualified and contribution basis, with an employer contribution in non-qualified defined benefit pension plans were respect of 2003 of 1,379,000 2002: 529,000, then frozen and will be payable in a lump sum on the including a bonus waiver of 1,250,000 earlier of the termination of Mr Aldingers 2002: 400,000. employment or on Mr Aldingers retirement.
No The pension arrangements for D J Flint to further benefits have accrued under these contractual retirement age of 60 are provided arrangements since 28 March 2003. through an executive allowance paid to fund Since commencement of his new employment personal pension arrangements set at 30 per cent of agreement on 28 March 2003, Mr Aldinger has basic salary.
This is supplemented through the HSBC continued to participate in the Household Holdings plc Funded Unapproved Retirement International Tax Reduction Investment Plan TRIP, Benefits Scheme on a defined contribution basis with which is a qualified funded deferred profit-sharing an employer contribution during 2003 of 81,943 and savings plan for eligible employees, although no 2002: 80,092.
The intention of these arrangements employer contributions have been made since is to provide benefits broadly comparable to an 28 March 2003.
Mr Aldinger also participated in accrual rate of one-thirtieth of pensionable salary for Supplemental TRIP a non-qualified plan, which is each year of pensionable service.
an unfunded arrangement under which additional The pension arrangements for D G Eldon are employer provision of US$41,539 has been made provided under the HSBC International Staff since 28 March 2003.
Pension accrues at a The pension arrangements for Sir John Bond, rate of one twenty-seventh of pensionable salary per S K Green and A W Jebson to contractual retirement year of pensionable service.
age of 60 are, and for Sir Keith Whitson were, provided under the HSBC Bank UK Pension 224 Audited information Transfer value less personal contributions at 31 December Increase in Increase of 2003 relating to accrued Transfer Transfer transfer value increase in Accrued pension value value of accrued accrued annual Increase in during 2003, of accrued of accrued pension less pensions during pension at pension at pension at 2003, excluding accrued excluding personal 31 December pension any increase 1 January 31 December contributions any increase for 2003 during 2003 for inflation 2003 2003 in 2003 inflation 1 1 1 1 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2 Sir John Bond.............. 398 74 66 5,504 7,924 2,420 1,306 C F W fide Croisset......... 64 9 7 626 860 234 97 W R P Dalton............... 274 17 14 3,680 4,258 578 212 3 4 D G Eldon................... 251 17 11 4,703 5,045 342 205 S K Green..................... 178 19 15 1,901 2,367 466 193 5 A W Jebson................. 141 17 14 1,384 1,769 385 175 6 Sir Keith Whitson........ 36 29 4,514 5,713 1,199 611 1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBCs pension funds and not a sum paid or due to the individual: it cannot therefore meaningfully be added to annual remuneration.
2 On attaining age 60, Sir John Bond has been able, under the terms of the scheme, to retire at any time with an immediate pension equal to his accrued pension which, at 31 December 2003, is shown above.
3 On attaining age 53, D G Eldon has been able, under the terms of the scheme, to retire at any time with an immediate pension equal to his accrued pension which, at 31 December 2003, is shown above.
4 D G Eldon made personal contributions towards his pension of 14,625 in respect of 2003.
5 A W Jebsons entitlement has been supplemented by an employer contribution of 175,000 in return for the prior waiver of part of his bonus in respect of 2002.
6 Sir Keith Whitson retired from the Group with effect from 30 May 2003, with a gross pension of 287,472 per annum.
Sir Keith Whitson elected to commute part of this pension for a lump sum payment of 664,825 leaving a residual pension of 233,737 per annum.
As a result, the pension in payment at 31 December 2003 is lower than the accrued pension at 1 January 2003.
The increase in accrued pension during 2003 reflects the gross pension before commutation.
The transfer value of benefits at 31 December 2003 reflects both the pension in payment and the commutation lump sum, increased with interest.
The following unfunded pension payments, in consideration at exercise prices equivalent to the respect of which provision has been made, were market value at the date of award, except that options made during 2003 to four former Directors of HSBC awarded under the HSBC Holdings savings-related Holdings: share option plans before 2001 are exercisable at a 2003 2002 15 per cent discount to the market value at the date of award and those awarded since 2001 at a 20 per B H Asher................... 83,277 81,564 cent discount.
The options are categorised as unlisted R Delbridge................. 119,777 117,313 physically settled share options under the Securities Sir Brian Pearse........... 49,947 48,918 and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong.
Sir William Purves....... 88,158 86,343 341,159 334,138 Except as otherwise indicated, no options were exercised or lapsed during the year and there are no The payments in respect of R Delbridge and Sir remaining performance criteria conditional upon Brian Pearse were made by HSBC Bank plc as which the outstanding options are exercisable.
The former Directors of the bank.
market value of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2003 was 8.78.
The highest and lowest market Share options values during the year were 9.135 and 6.31.
At 31 December 2003, the undernamed Directors Market value is the mid-market price derived from held options to acquire the number of HSBC the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on Holdings ordinary shares set against their respective the relevant date.
The options were awarded for nil 225 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Audited Information losses suffered by Mr Gray as a result of alleged negligent advice given to Mr Gray at the time of his retirement.
The advice concerned the impact of his On 27 August 2003, a payment of 400,000 was retirement on his then existing share options and the made to J M Gray, a former director of the Company time at which these options would lapse.
The and Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai compensation payment represents a portion of the Banking Corporation Limited, who retired in 1996. loss suffered by Mr Gray on the lapse of those The payment, which was effected after having taken options.
2 The exercise of these options was conditional upon the growth in earnings per share over a three-year period being equal to or greater than a composite rate of inflation comprising 50 per cent of the Hong Kong Composite Consumer Price Index, 35 per cent of the UK Retail Price Index and 15 per cent of the USA All Urban Consumer Price Index plus 2 per cent per annum.
This condition has been satisfied.
3 At the date of exercise, 31 March 2003, the market value per share was 6.49.
4 Options awarded under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
5 Options awarded under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
6 Vesting of 50 per cent of the award is subject to the performance tests set out in the section headed Performance Conditions on pages 217 to 219.
7 At the date of exercise, 5 March 2003, the market value per share was 6.70.
8 At the date of exercise, 27 May 2003, the market value per share was 7.20.
9 Options lapsed on 9 April 2003 following closure of the associated savings-related account by the Director.
11 At the date of exercise, 11 March 2003, the market value per share was 6.53.
12 Options held under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan at date of retirement 30 May 2003.
At 31 December 2003, C F W fide Croisset held value at the date of award.
There are no remaining the following options to acquire CCF shares of 5 performance criteria conditional upon which the each.
On exercise of these options each CCF share outstanding options are exercisable.
No options will be exchanged for 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary over CCF shares of 5 each were awarded to or shares.
The options were granted by CCF for nil exercised by Mr fide Croisset during the year.
The set out in the table below.
These options arise from Household options were granted at nil consideration.
2 At the date of exercise, 19 December 2003, the market value per share was 8.82.
3 535,000 options are exercisable on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of award.
Save as stated above, none of the Directors, or members of their immediate families, were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures during the year.
1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends.
2 The market value per share on 15 April 2003 was 6.81.
The shares acquired by the Trustee were purchased at an average price of 6.79.
228 Audited Information 3 The shares will vest in three equal instalments on each of the first three anniversaries of 28 March 2003 so long as Mr Aldinger remains employed on the relevant vesting date, subject to accelerated vesting upon a termination of cause, or by Mr Aldinger for good reason or due to his death or disability.
4 At the date of vesting, 31 March 2003, the market value per share was 6.49.
The market value per share adjusted for the share capital reorganisation implemented on 2 July 1999 on 2 March 1998, the date of award, was 6.22.
The awards were subject to earnings per share performance conditions, to be achieved in whole or in part, as follows: 1 earnings per share in the year 2001 to be greater than earnings per share in 1997 by a factor equivalent to the composite rate of inflation a weighted average of inflation in the UK, USA and Hong Kong plus 2 per cent, compounded over each year of the performance period: 2 earnings per share to increase relative to the previous year in not less than three of the four years of the performance period: and 3 cumulative earnings per share over the four years of the performance period, 1998 to 2001 inclusive, must exceed an aggregate figure calculated by compounding 1997 earnings per share by a factor equivalent to the annual composite rate of inflation plus 2 per cent for each year of the performance period.
On meeting all of these three primary tests, 50 per cent of the conditional awards would be released to each eligible participant.
A secondary test would apply such that, if the cumulative earnings per share over the performance period exceeded an aggregate figure calculated by compounding 1997 earnings per share by a factor equivalent to the same annual composite rate of inflation as described above, plus 5 per cent or more, or 8 per cent or more, for each year of the performance period, 75 per cent or 100 per cent respectively of the conditional awards would be released.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, these conditions were retested over the years 1999 to 2002.
The performance conditions were met in full and the shares were released.
5 The market value per share on 5 March 2003 was 6.70.
The shares acquired by the Trustee of the Plan were purchased at an average price of 6.88.
6 50 per cent of D G Eldons discretionary bonus in respect of 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively was awarded in Restricted Shares with a three-year restricted period.
8 Interest at date of retirement 30 May 2003.
On behalf of the Board Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 1 March 2004 229
