Report of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 January 2003 This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which introduced new statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors remuneration in respect of periods ending on or after 31 December 2002.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the companys members on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information The Committee consists solely of four non-executive directors, Remuneration and Nomination Committee Messrs P J Manser, E G Licoys, J J Nelson and P J Stone, under the chairmanship of Mr Manser.
Mr Nelson is a partner in Graphite Capital, one of whose funds has an investment in the ICG Mezzanine Fund 2000.
Other than this, none of the Committee members have any personal financial interests other than as shareholders, conicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee consults the executive directors about its proposals and has access to professional advice from outside the company.
Remuneration policy on executive directors remuneration Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of the high calibre needed to maintain the companys position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement of the executive directors and the determination of their annual remuneration package is undertaken by the Committee.
This policy has been formulated having given full consideration to Section B of the Best Practices Provisions annexed to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The main elements of the remuneration package for executive directors are as follows: basic annual salary: n bonus payments: n share option incentives: and n carried interest arrangements.
n The companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors should be performance related.
As described below, over half the expected value of their pay comes from bonus payments and carried interest arrangements, as well as from the benets of participation in share option schemes.
Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the company in connection with the companys activities and otherwise, providing the Chairmans permission is obtained.
Basic salary An executive directors basic salary is determined by the Committee at the beginning of each year.
In deciding appropriate levels the Committee can rely on objective research which gives up to date information on a comparator group of companies which comprises development capital companies engaged in private equity investment.
Executive directors contracts of service which include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Bonus payments In setting appropriate bonus parameters the Committee refers to the objective research on comparator groups of companies as noted above.
The Committee believes that any incentive compensation awarded should be tied to the interests of the companys shareholders and that the principal measure of those interests is shareholder value.
The key element of the current bonus incentive scheme is as follows: a medium-term incentive scheme, implemented in 1994, relating to the cumulative growth in earnings n per share in excess of RPI and calculated by reference to the amount of realised gains.
No payment 20 Intermediate Capital Group currently is made if the cumulative growth in EPS is less than RPI plus 4% per annum.
The amounts payable rise proportionately from 4% of realised gains to a maximum of 20% of realised gains with increasing cumulative growth in earnings per share.
The extension and appropriateness of the scheme is considered by the Committee on an annual basis.
The amounts include discretionary contributions to the Employee benefit Trust established by the company.
Share optionsThere is in existence a share option scheme which the company adopted on 18 May 1994 and which was approved by the Inland Revenue on 2 June 1994.
The principal features of this option scheme are laid out in the Placing and Intermediaries Offer document dated 19 May 1994.
This option scheme is, so far as executive directors are concerned, administered by the Committee.
Details of options granted to directors are shown in note 9 to the accounts.
The company adopted an unapproved option scheme on 19 May 1997.
The principal features of this scheme are substantially the same as those of the scheme dated 18 May 1994 and the scheme is, so far as executive directors are concerned, administered by the Committee.
The company adopted a further approved and a further non-approved share option scheme on 21 May 2001.
Approval was given by the Inland Revenue on the former scheme on 22 May 2001.
The principal features of these schemes were set out in the letter to shareholders dated 23 April 2001 and the schemes, as far as the Executive Directors are concerned, are administered by the Committee.
These options are awarded based upon the performance of the company and the individual.
Carried interest arrangements The company has established for its executives, including the executive directors, carried interest arrangements whereby a proportion of the carried interest negotiated by the company in respect of managed funds raised since 21 January 1998 be available for allocation to its executives.
Whilst these arrangements are not a long-term incentive scheme, it being the investors in such funds who bear the cost of the carried interest, the company sought, and obtained, approval from its shareholders for such arrangements at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 21 January 1998.
In accordance with the resolution at that meeting, reconrmation of these carried interest arrangements will be the subject of a resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available to answer questions on any aspect of the remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting.
Pension arrangements Under their service agreements, each executive director is paid an additional gross annual amount to be paid into any one or more pension plans of his choice by him up to a maximum annual amount equal to 15% of basic annual salary.
There have been no changes in the terms of executive directors pension entitlement during the year and there are no other arrangements in place concerning their pensions.
All other employees are paid a an additional gross annual amount into any one or more pension plans of their choice and or b the company makes contributions into a designated group pension plan.
Executive directors contracts Executive directors previously had two year rolling contracts which are deemed appropriate for the nature of the companys business.
In order, however, to reect current best practice, the directors have agreed to reduce the term of their contracts to twelve months.
The company is obliged to pay damages for wrongful termination.
No other payments are made for compensation for loss of ofce.
Mr Attwood and Mr fide Gersigny are due to retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Piper was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2002 and offers himself for re-election in accordance with the articles of association.
Non-executive directors The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board within the limits set out in the articles of association.
The fee paid to the current non-executive chairman in the year was 75,000 and the annual fees paid to other non-executive directors varied between 27,000 and 28,000.
Included in these amounts are fees for additional work performed for the company in respect of time spent working on the Remuneration and Nomination and Audit Committees.
Non-executive directors cannot participate in any of the companys share option schemes.
Non-executive directors do not have a contract of service and are not eligible to join the companys pension scheme.
21 Intermediate Capital Group Report of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee continued Performance graphThe graph below shows a comparison between the companys total shareholder return performance and the companies in the FTSE 250 index.
The graph compares the value of 100 invested in Intermediate Capital Group PLC on 1 February 1998 with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 over the subsequent five years.
The FTSE 250 group has been chosen to give a comparison with the average returns that shareholders could have received by investing in a range of other major UK companies.
Shareholder return 300 250 200 150 100 50 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 ICG Total shareholder return performance FTSE MID 250 Total shareholder return performance Source: Datastream Audited information Details of directors remuneration This report should be read in conjunction with note 9 to the accounts which provides details of the remuneration of each director and which also constitutes part of this report.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee 16 April 2003 22 Intermediate Capital Group
