Directors remuneration report Terms of reference of the the performance they achieve the 1994 Executive Share option and experience in the post.
As Remuneration Committee on behalf of shareholders.
In this Scheme the 1994 Scheme stated above, it is benchmarked The terms of reference of the context, the Committees policy and the Long Term Incentive Plan against comparator companies Remuneration Committee the is to set the overall remuneration the LTIP.
Further details of the and the actual pay level is set after Committee, as approved by the package at a competitive level and remuneration policy and how taking account of performance, Board, embody the purpose of the in a form that permits significant it is currently applied to the relevant external survey data and Committee as ensuring that the additional remuneration to be various aspects of remuneration the general movement of base Companys executive directors earned for high performance over is provided in the relevant pay within the Group.
and senior executives are properly a sustained period.
This is normally sections below.
incentivised and fairly rewarded achieved by benchmarking base Annual bonus plan for their individual contributions pay against comparator companies With regard to external pay survey The executive directors participate to the Groups overall performance and a range of factors, including data, the Committee reviews each in an annual bonus plan intended having due regard to the interests performance see below, and year, prior to the annual review to support the Companys overall of the shareholders and to the by providing, in addition, short of base pay in January, information remuneration policy.
The bonus financial and commercial health and long term incentives geared on remuneration and benefit levels plan for each executive director of the Group.
based on an external survey contains meaningful targets that conducted on its behalf by Monks seek to focus attention on one Membership In assessing the balance Partnership.
The Committee seeks or two key measures of short All members of the Committee, of performance related and to maintain, wherever possible, to medium term achievement.
who are identified on pages 18 non-performance related elements a consistent and appropriate basis In 2003, the target for the annual and 19 of the Annual Review and of remuneration, base pay for comparison year-on-year in bonus for the UK executive Summary Financial Statement, and benefits are treated as terms of the survey methodology directors was linked to the Groups are independent non-executive non-performance related, whereas and, in particular, the use of achievement of earnings per share directors.
The Committee is annual bonus including awards comparator groups on which after certain specified adjustments chaired by Mr C A Banks.
Members under the Deferred Annual Share the survey is based.
Detailed terms of the plan of the Committee do not have Bonus Scheme the DASBS three comparator groups that the were determined by the Committee any personal financial interest and long term incentives are Committee uses.
These are related and provided for a bonus to be other than as shareholders in treated as performance related.
to sales, profit before tax and awarded if the Group achieved, matters decided by the Committee, For this purpose, share options market capitalisation.
In each in 2003, a threshold eps level.
nor do they have any potential are valued at one third of their face case the comparator group consists No bonus was to be awarded conflict of interest arising from value on grant.
On this basis, the of 20 non-financial UK based for eps achievement below the cross-directorships or day-to-day Committee sets the remuneration companies that have substantial threshold level.
The bonus plan involvement in running the Groups package such that at least half operations overseas.
10 of the provided for an increase in the business.
The Committee meets the total target remuneration companies in each comparator bonus award pro rata for eps at least three times during the package is derived from the group are the next highest and achievement above the threshold year and at other times as may performance related elements.
10 are the next lowest compared up to a target level of eps and for be required.
While the Chairman to Bunzl.
The results from each of above target achievement.
Half of of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, Both the overall competitiveness the comparator groups are blended this annual bonus is normally paid is not a member of the Committee, of the remuneration package and by Monks Partnership to provide in cash to a maximum level of he normally attends meetings the balance between performance an overall assessed market position 65% of annual base pay and the except when the Committee and non-performance related as at 1 January of the year of the balance but with the total is considering matters elements are kept under regular review.
Neither Monks Partnership aggregate amount capped at concerning himself.
review in the light of market nor New Bridge Street Consultants 100% of base pay is deferred practice and the needs of the provide specific recommendations under the rules of the DASBS, Audit Company.
The Committee to the Committee on remuneration details of which are set out below.
The directors remuneration in 2003 commissions reports and receives or benefit levels for the executive For Mr P G Lorenzini, the bonus and the details of the directors advice on directors remuneration directors.
The Committee does, plan was based on the profit interests in the Companys ordinary from independent remuneration however, review survey information and return on average capital shares disclosed on pages 33 and benefits consultants, namely provided by them in the light of its employed achieved in the business to 37 have been audited by Monks Partnership and New established remuneration policy for which he is directly responsible the Companys independent Bridge Street Consultants, who before making its decisions.
with a maximum of 70% of annual external auditor.
may from time to time also provide All decisions of the Committee base pay.
Bonus awards are other services to the Company on were implemented in full.
Remuneration policy remuneration and benefit matters The Companys current that are not the subject of review Base pay Under the DASBS, eligible remuneration policy for 2004 and by the Committee.
New Bridge The base pay of each executive executives, including the UK beyond is designed to help ensure Street Consultants have been director is set to reflect the size executive directors, receive the the recruitment, retention and commissioned by the Committee and scope of that directors deferred element of their annual motivation of the executive directors to provide advice regarding the responsibilities undertaken on bonus as an award of ordinary by providing fair reward for the structure of a new executive long behalf of the Board, the level shares.
The ordinary shares are responsibilities they undertake and term incentive scheme to replace of overall performance achieved purchased in the market and 32 Bunzl plc deposited with the Bunzl Group The Group operates an Executive regarding the adoption of a new Based on the authority obtained at General Employee Benefit Trust Share Option Scheme under which executive long term incentive the 2001 Annual General Meeting, the Trust until 1 March in the the executive directors and other plan.
Shareholders will be asked the Company introduced the third year after the year in which senior executives in the Group to approve this new Plan at the International Sharesave Plan during the award is made, following which may be granted options over 2004 Annual General Meeting.
This operates on a similar they are transferred to the executive Bunzl shares.
The notice convening the Meeting basis to the Sharesave Scheme provided normally that the executive is set out in a separate letter from 2001 except that options are has remained in the employment The 1994 Scheme replaced the the Chairman to shareholders which normally exercisable three years of the Group throughout that period Executive Share Option Scheme gives further details concerning after they have been granted.
or until their normal retirement No.
2 Scheme, which the proposed executive long None of the executive directors are date.
The DASBS forms a part expired in 1994, and was approved term incentive plan.
eligible to participate in this Plan.
of the annual bonus plan so as to by shareholders at the 1994 provide, in total, an annual bonus Annual General Meeting.
The The Sharesave Scheme 2001 opportunity linked to the overall 1994 Scheme is consistent with replaced the Sharesave Scheme performance of the Group, with principles expressed in guidelines 1991, which expired in 2001, a significant portion of any bonus issued, at the time of its approval, together the Sharesave Schemes award held in shares for a three by bodies representing institutional and was approved by shareholders year period.
In particular a Group at the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
believes this supports the overall performance condition, determined remuneration policy and contributes by the Committee, has to be The Sharesave Schemes are to the alignment of executives and satisfied before options may approved by the Inland Revenue shareholders interests.
and are open to all UK employees, an award of 59,703 shares including executive directors, who was made in respect of 2002 to Options granted to date under have completed at least one year Mr A J Habgood 2002 in respect of the 1994 Scheme may normally of continuous service.
They are 2001: 45,061 shares and an award only be exercised if, during any linked to a contract for monthly of 32,284 shares was made to three consecutive financial years savings of up to 250 per month Mr D M Williams 2002 in respect since the option was granted, over a period of either three or of 2001: 24,578 shares.
In both the increase in the adjusted five years.
Under the Sharesave cases the shares awarded in 2003 earnings per share of the Group Schemes options are granted will transfer to Mr A J Habgood is equal to or greater than the to participating employees at and Mr D M Williams respectively increase in the Retail Prices Index a discount of up to 20% to the on 1 March 2006, subject to the over that period, plus 6%.
This market price prevailing on the day rules of the DASBS.
condition, which was approved immediately preceding the date by shareholders at the time the of invitation to apply for the option.
The Committee also reviews 1994 Scheme was adopted, has Options are normally exercisable and authorises the outline been satisfied in respect of options either three or five years after structure of annual bonus plans granted prior to 2002 under the they have been granted.
for other senior executives within 1994 Scheme.
These plans are The Group introduced, with effect based on performance targets The grant of executive share options from 1 January 2000, the Bunzl relevant to individual businesses is made on a discretionary basis, Employee Stock Purchase Plan or areas of responsibility and are taking account of each executives US following approval given at compatible with the principles performance and job responsibilities.
an Extraordinary General Meeting of the bonus plans approved In normal circumstances options of shareholders held on 5 October for the executive directors.
This Plan provides an to satisfaction of the relevant opportunity for Bunzl Group Share based incentives performance condition as referred employees in the US, including The Committee believes that to above, not earlier than three Mr P G Lorenzini, to purchase Bunzl the long term performance of the years and not later than 10 years shares in the form of American Group is an important consideration after the date of grant.
Options Depositary Receipts ADRs at a for shareholders and that share were granted to the UK executive 15% discount to the market price, based incentives are an important directors in February and August up to an annual maximum of 10% part of helping to align the interests 2003 in respect of market of remuneration or $25,000 worth of shareholders and those employed purchased shares that are of ADRs, whichever is lower.
The Committee held through the Trust.
purchase of the ADRs is funded welcomes the fact that each of by after-tax payroll deductions from the executive directors currently As the 1994 Scheme is due the employee with the employing has a meaningful holding of to expire in 2004, the Committee company contributing the Bunzl shares.
is currently consulting shareholders 15% discount.
Bunzl plc 33 Directors remuneration report continued The table below shows the number of options held by the directors at 31 December 2003, lapsed options and options granted to and exercised by the directors during 2003 under the No.
2 Scheme, the 1994 Scheme and the Sharesave Schemes, all of which have been approved by shareholders.
Mr P G Lorenzini currently has no options under the terms of any Company share option scheme.
Granted Exercised Market Date during during Exercise price at from which Expiry 1.1.
03 year year 31.12.03 price p exercise p exercisable date A J Habgood No.
13 Lapsed Granted Exercised Market Date during during Exercise price at from which Expiry 1.1.
03 year year 31.12.03 price p exercise p exercisable date D M Williams No.
13 34 Bunzl plc The exercise price of executive introduction of a new executive The Companys total shareholder directors with an allowance which options under the No.
2 Scheme long term incentive plan, which return over the last five years permits them to make provision, of is the mid-market price of an will replace both the 1994 Scheme compared to that of the FTSE their choice, in respect of that part of ordinary share on the date of grant and the LTIP.
Support Services Sector is shown their salary which exceeds the cap.
The exercise price in the graph on page 5 of the of executive options under the 1994 The status of the outstanding Annual Review and Summary In the US the main scheme for Scheme is the market price prevailing LTIP awards, as they affect the Financial Statement.
employees is the non-contributory on the day immediately preceding executive directors, other than Bunzl USA, Inc Retirement Plan the date of grant of the option or, if Mr P G Lorenzini who does not Retirement benefits the US Plan.
Subject to IRS limits, higher in the case of options granted participate in the LTIP, is as follows.
As stated in the Accounting members of the US Plan earn a prior to 2001, the price on the Policies section of the financial lifetime pension which accrues at date of grant.
For savings-related The awards granted in 1997 to Mr statements and elaborated upon the rate of 1.67% per annum, up options under the Sharesave A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams in the relevant Note thereto, the to 50% of the five year average Schemes the exercise price is the of 139,887 and 89,326 ordinary Group utilises both defined benefit pensionable salary less the primary mid-market price of an ordinary shares respectively vested at the and defined contribution pension Social Security benefit, with a share on the day immediately end of 1999 and these shares schemes throughout the world.
normal retirement age of 65 years.
preceding the date of invitation to became exercisable on 1 January All principal defined benefit schemes Pensionable salary in the US Plan apply for the option, less 20%.
Mr D M Williams exercised are now closed to new entrants is capped at $140,000.
The US his award on 3 September 2003 who are now offered a defined Plan also provides for certain The options granted under the giving a total market value on contribution arrangement.
benefits in the event of death No.
2 Scheme and 1994 Scheme exercise of 431,558.
Because of the cap are normally capable of being value of awards exercised by him In the UK the Group has on pensionable salary under the exercised on or after the third in 2002 was 324,695.
Mr A J historically operated as its main US Plan, the pensions of senior anniversary of the date of grant Habgood exercised his award on contributory scheme for senior US executives are limited and of the relevant option.
As permitted 24 September 2003 giving a total executives the Bunzl Senior arrangements have been made by the amendments to the rules market value on exercise of Pension Scheme BSPS.
BSPS to provide certain executives of the No.
The 1998 awards provides for members contributions with supplementary pensions shareholders at the 1992 Annual of 141,000 and 89,000 ordinary currently at the rate of 9% of through a Senior Executive General Meeting, some options shares to Mr A J Habgood and pensionable salary which is basic Retirement Agreement SERA.
granted from 1992 to 1994 were Mr D M Williams respectively salary, which rose from 5% with Mr P G Lorenzinis SERA provides also capable of being exercised at vested at the end of 2000.
They effect from 1 April 2003, with the for a lifetime pension of $370,000 a price of 85% of the full exercise became exercisable on 1 January Group being responsible for the per annum, payable upon retirement.
price, on or after the fifth anniversary 2001.
Mr A J Habgood exercised balance of the cost of providing of the date of grant for the relevant his award on 24 September 2003 the benefit as determined from Executive directors option, provided that, during any giving a total market value on time to time by the consulting service contracts five consecutive financial years exercise of 663,835.
No awards actuaries to BSPS.
Subject to It is the Companys policy that since the option was granted, the were exercised by Mr A J Habgood Inland Revenue limits, BSPS executive directors are normally increase in the adjusted earnings in 2002.
The outstanding 1998 members are eligible for a pension employed on contracts that provide per share of the Group was equal award for Mr D M Williams will which accrues at a maximum rate for 12 months notice from the to, or greater than, the increase expire on 31 December 2004. of 3% per annum up to two thirds Company and six months notice in the Retail Prices Index over that of pensionable salary, with a from the executive.
This condition Any shares required to fulfil normal retirement age of 60 years.
and Mr D M Williams each was satisfied in respect of certain entitlements under the LTIP, BSPS also provides for payment have service contracts dated options granted at an exercise the DASBS and the 1994 Scheme of certain benefits in the event 16 January 1996 that provide price of 129p in 1994 and the last in respect of options over market of death or disability.
The current for these notice periods.
The only of these were exercised in 2003. purchased shares will be provided UK executive directors may choose circumstance in which there is by the Trust.
Mr A J Habgood and to be members of BSPS or to predetermined compensation for The mid-market price of an Mr D M Williams are deemed by opt for a private pension scheme.
termination of these contracts is ordinary share on 31 December virtue of the Companies Act 1985 In the event that a director opts where there is a change of control 2003 was 426.75p and the range to be interested in all the shares for a private pension scheme the of the Company.
There are no during 2003 was 345p to 482p.
held by the Trust, which at Company also contributes to lump provisions for predetermined 31 December 2003 amounted sum life assurance cover equivalent compensation in excess of one The 1999 Directors Remuneration to 7,054,952 ordinary shares, to that provided under BSPS.
years remuneration and benefits Report recorded the Committees because they are potential Because of the cap on pensionable in kind.
Mr P G Lorenzini has decision not to grant any awards beneficiaries under the Trust salary introduced in the Finance a fixed term service contract under the LTIP to the directors in together with all other directors Act 1989, the amount of direct which runs to 31 July 2004.
This decision has also applied and employees of the Group.
contribution by the Company termination of this contract for in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003.
These interests do not reflect to pension schemes for the UK reasons other than cause would As previously noted the Committee the awards actually made to executive directors is limited and require payment by the Company is currently consulting with them individually through the arrangements have therefore been of the balance of Mr P G Lorenzinis shareholders regarding the Trust that are summarised above.
made to provide the executive entitlement under the contract.
Bunzl plc 35 Directors remuneration report continued Other principal benefits Mr D M Williams, private medical are paid an annual fee for their in any of the Groups bonus, for executive directors plan coverage under the Companys services plus a daily fee for share option or long term incentive In common with many senior prevailing UK healthcare plan.
attending meetings of the Board plans.
The non-executive directors executives in the Group, the Mr P G Lorenzini participates and Board Committees.
In addition, pay is reviewed annually, based executive directors are eligible for in welfare benefit plans made where relevant, they are paid a fee on external market survey data, certain benefits which include the available to all US employees for chairing a Board Committee.
and is determined by the Board.
provision of a company car and of the Group covering life insurance, The non-executive directors do payment of its operating expenses medical, dental and disability cover.
not have service contracts, are Directors remuneration including fuel, in line with prevailing not eligible for pension scheme The following table gives details Group policies, and, in the Non-executive directors membership or other employee of each directors remuneration case of Mr A J Habgood and The non-executive directors benefits and do not participate for the year.
2 The remuneration of Mr L C McQuade relates to the period from 1 January 2003 until 14 May 2003, the date of his retirement from the Board.
The remuneration for Mr M J Roney relates to the period from 1 June 2003 the date of his appointment to the Board to 31 December 2003.
3 Benefits incorporate all taxable benefits arising from employment by the Company that principally relate to the provision of a company car.
4 The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including, in the cases of Mr A J Habgood, Mr D M Williams and Mr P G Lorenzini, performance related elements which are paid in cash in the year following that in which they are earned.
5 The fees paid in respect of Mr S G Williams services are paid to his employer, Unilever PLC, and not to Mr S G Williams personally.
6 As Mr A J Habgood is not a member of the Company pension scheme, the Company normally makes a direct pension contribution, at Mr A J Habgoods direction, to a personal pension scheme in his name.
In accordance with Mr A J Habgoods contract of employment the relevant amount paid as a direct pension contribution has been deducted from the total pension allowance in 2003.
The balance is shown in the table above as the pension allowance.
The values of the pension benefits in the cases of Mr D M Williams and Mr P G Lorenzini are shown in the following table and are not included in the directors remuneration table above.
In addition the Company pays all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to a Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA for Mr P G Lorenzini.
36 Bunzl plc Change in transfer value of accrued benefits during the year, after deducting Transfer value of contributions made Transfer value of Accrued benefits Accrued benefits accrued benefits by the director accrued benefits at 31.12.02 at 31.12.03 at 31.12.02 during the year at 31.12.03 D M Williams 32,653 36,383 574,665 48,764 631,327 P G Lorenzini 25,154 24,237 208,952 17,217 226,169 Excluding SERA entitlements Notes 1 The changes in accrued benefits during the year exclude the effect of inflation on the accrued benefits as at the start of the year.
2 Accrued benefits are the annual amount that would be paid on retirement at the normal retirement age based on service to 31 December 2003.
3 The above figures do not take account of any Additional Voluntary Contributions that all members of BSPS have the option to make.
4 The transfer values of accrued benefits for Mr D M Williams and Mr P G Lorenzini have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Mr D M Williams, is net of his contributions.
5 In addition Mr P G Lorenzini participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2003 such contributions amounted to 5,488 2002: 5,066.
