27 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee The committee also determines Share Options and Advisers specific remuneration packages for The Group currently operates four Cairns remuneration committee the each of the executive directors, share option schemes, as follows: committee operates within terms of including pension rights and any reference set by the Board.
1988 Executive Share Option reviewed periodically to ensure that Scheme 1988 Scheme the committee remains up to date Remuneration Policy 2.
1996 Second Share Option with best practices appropriate to Cairns policy on directors Scheme 1996 Scheme Cairn, its strategy and the business remuneration for the current year and 3.
2002 Unapproved Share Option environment in which it operates.
subsequent financial years is that the Plan 2002 Plan overall remuneration package should 4.
2003 Approved Share Option Plan The deliberations and decisions of be sufficiently competitive to attract, 2003 Plan the committee are informed by the retain and motivate high quality provisions in the Listing Rules and individuals capable of achieving the The 1988 Scheme was adopted in the Combined Code issued by the Group's objectives and thereby 1988 and expired in April 1998.
The Hampel Committee in 1998 and enhancing shareholder value.
date of grant of the last award of appended to the Listing Rules and options under the 1988 Scheme was the committee has followed these The executive remuneration package 29 August 1995.
Under the 1988 provisions and those of the Directors currently consists of basic salary, Scheme, options are exercisable three Remuneration Report Regulations benefits, annual performance related to ten years following the date of 2002 in preparing this report.
bonuses, a long term incentive plan grant.
No exercise may be made and defined contribution pensions, with within three years of a previous As and when required, the committee a significant proportion of the overall exercise.
takes external advice from the package based on performance and Companys legal adviser Shepherd dependent upon the achievement of The 1996 Scheme was adopted in Wedderburn and auditor Ernst & Young demanding targets.
The principal difference between LLP in respect of the Companys share the 1996 Scheme and the 1988 option schemes and LTIP.
In respect of The package is designed to support Scheme is that the approval of the comparative remuneration, advice has Cairns business strategy and to Inland Revenue was not sought for been obtained from New Bridge provide an appropriate incentive to the 1996 Scheme.
The date of grant Street Consultants, who conducted a improve individual and corporate of the first award of options under the comprehensive review of the directors performance, whilst ensuring that 1996 Scheme was 29 May 1996. remuneration packages in 2002. overall rewards are market The directors remuneration packages competitive.
Details of the individual The 1996 Scheme has now been were benchmarked against three components of the package and of superseded by two new share option comparator groups - oil and gas contracts are given below.
plans - the 2002 Plan and the 2003 companies, Scottish companies Plan.
As such, no further awards of and mid 250 companies.
The Basic Salary and Benefits options will be made under the 1996 committee intends to instruct a Basic salary is reviewed annually by the Scheme.
The date of grant of the last further comparative review towards remuneration committee.
The salary award of options under the 1996 the end of 2004. increases awarded to directors for the Scheme was 1 October 2002. year 2003 retained basic salary levels The current members of the at below the median level identified in The principal difference between the remuneration committee are Hamish the review carried out by New Bridge 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan is that Grossart Chairman, Norman Murray, Street Consultants in 2002.
The basic the approval of the Inland Revenue Ed Story and Mark Tyndall.
The Chief salaries of the executive directors were was not sought for the 2002 Plan.
Executive is not a member of the increased from 2003 levels by 3.5%.
The 2003 Plan was approved by remuneration committee but may These increases have taken effect for shareholders at the 2003 AGM and attend its meetings by invitation and the year 2004. subsequently by the Inland Revenue.
is consulted in respect of its proposals.
The date of grant of the first award Benefits available to the executive of options under the 2002 Plan was The committee makes directors comprise a company car, 18 March 2003.
The date of grant of recommendations to the Board, permanent health insurance, private the first award of options under the within agreed terms of reference, on health insurance and death in service 2003 Plan was 30 June 2003. an overall remuneration policy for benefit.
directors and other senior executives.
28 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report continued Options granted under the 1996 senior executives with the interests of performance period.
If Cairns TSR Scheme, 2002 Plan and 2003 Plan shareholders by providing a share performance exceeds the average are exercisable three to ten years based incentive.
The LTIP is designed TSR performance of the Index, then following the date of grant and are to reward participants based on the step one test has been passed.
normally subject to performance company performance and benefits The step two test will then be used to conditions on exercise.
At present, are only delivered if challenging calculate how many if any Cairn the option holder may only exercise conditions are met.
Participants are shares the subject of the award will options if Cairns share price has required to hold 50% of any shares vest.
increased by 5% on a compound awarded pursuant to vesting for a basis over the period from the date of minimum of one year and are not Step Two grant of options up to the date they entitled to receive additional grants of Under step two, the TSR of Cairn are exercised.
In addition, the options under any of the Companys shares will be compared to the TSR percentage increase in Cairns share share option schemes.
of a share in each company in a price over the period must be at least comparator group comprising equal to or greater than the percentage The executive directors and senior exploration, production and integrated movement in the FTSE Oil & Gas Index.
executives eligible to receive awards oil companies over the performance are determined by the remuneration period.
Each company will then be Share options are awarded in order to committee each year.
Participants may ranked in order of TSR performance.
provide employees with a long term be granted Tier One and Tier Two Cairns position in the comparator incentive and to align their interests awards under the LTIP.
Performance group list will determine how many if with those of shareholders.
As such, conditions for each are determined by any Cairn shares the subject of the the remuneration committee is the remuneration committee and the award will vest, as follows: satisfied that the current share price calculation of shares vesting based related performance conditions are on these conditions is subject to all the Cairn shares comprised in appropriate.
Confirmation of whether independent verification by Ernst & the award will vest if Cairns position the applicable performance conditions Young LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP is also in the comparator group is at the have been met is subject to Cairns auditor.
upper quartile or above: independent verification by Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP is also Performance Conditions - Tier One 20% of the Cairn shares comprised Cairns auditor.
A Tier One award is an award of Cairn in the award will vest if Cairn shares with the release of those reaches the median in the Up to 5% of Cairns issued ordinary shares being dependent upon the comparator group: share capital from time to time may executive remaining an employee and be placed under option under the achievement of performance between the median and upper 1988 Scheme, the 1996 Scheme and conditions over the relevant quartile the number of Cairn shares the 2002 Plan in any rolling ten year performance period.
In any one year, vesting will be calculated on a period.
Up to 10% of Cairns issued the market value of Cairn shares straight line basis: and ordinary share capital from time to comprised in a Tier One award at the time may be placed under option date of grant will not exceed one and no shares comprised in the award under the 1988 Scheme, the 1996 a half times a participants annual will vest if the TSR of Cairn shares Scheme, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 gross remuneration.
does not place it at the median or Plan in any rolling ten year period.
above in the comparator group.
Vesting of the Tier One award is Details of directors interests in share currently subject to a total shareholder In addition, no Tier One award will options are given on pages 32 and 33 return TSR target which is vest unless the remuneration of this report.
Since 1999, the long calculated in two steps, each of which committee is satisfied that there has term incentives for executive directors must be satisfied.
been a satisfactory and sustained and certain senior executives have improvement in Cairns underlying been effected through the Companys Step One financial performance over the LTIP and no subsequent grants of First, the TSR of a Cairn share during performance period.
options have been made to these the performance period is compared individuals.
to the average TSR performance of Performance Conditions - Tier Two the companies comprising the FTSE A Tier Two award is a TSR appreciation LTIP Small Cap Index excluding right over a number of notional shares.
The purpose of the the LTIP is to align investment trusts the Index at the The maximum potential benefit a the interests of executive directors and beginning and at the end of the participant may receive under a Tier 29 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Two award is calculated by comparing between the upper quartile and apply to awards made from 1 January the percentage change in Cairns TSR number one position, the level of 2004 but not to awards made prior to over the performance period with the benefit vesting will be calculated on that date.
percentage change in the average TSR a straight line basis: and of the comparator group over the Comparator Group same period.
The relative no benefit will vest under this target Following comments received from outperformance in Cairns TSR if the TSR of Cairn shares does not shareholders, the remuneration if any over the performance period, place it at the upper quartile or committee have also reviewed the is multiplied by the number of notional above in the comparator group.
appropriateness of the comparator shares the subject of the award.
This group of companies used in the gives rise to a monetary figure which In addition, no Tier Two award will second step of the TSR target is then converted into an actual vest unless the remuneration described on page 28.
The number of Cairn shares using the committee is satisfied that there has comparator group for awards prior to market value as at the date of vesting.
been a satisfactory and sustained 31 December 2003 is as follows: Where there has been a fall in Cairns improvement in Cairns underlying TSR, no Tier Two award will vest.
financial performance over the BP p. l. c. performance period.
At the end of the Chevron Texaco Corporation Vesting of the Tier Two award is then performance period, 50% of vested Dana Petroleum plc subject to a further TSR target which shares under both Tier One and Tier Exxon Mobil Corporation is calculated in two steps, each of Two awards will be transferred to Fortune Oil PLC which must be satisfied.
participants immediately, and the Melrose Energy PLC remaining shares will be transferred at Occidental Petroleum Corporation Step One the end of one year.
Paladin Resources plc First, the TSR performance of Cairn Premier Oil plc shares will be compared to the Vesting of the award will be Ramco Energy plc average TSR performance of the dependent upon the executive Royal Dutch Petroleum Company Index over the performance period.
If remaining an employee, and upon Shell Transport and Trading Company Cairns TSR performance exceeds the the achievement of performance SOCO International plc TSR performance for the Index, then conditions over the performance Tullow Oil plc the step one test has been passed.
In any three year period, the The step two test will then be used to market value of the notional shares For awards from 1 January 2004, the calculate how much of the benefit if comprised in all outstanding Tier Two remuneration committee have any will vest.
awards at the date of grant will not decided to remove BP p. l. c. Exxon exceed four times a participants Mobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Step Two annual gross remuneration.
Petroleum Company and Shell Under step two, the TSR of Cairn Transport and Trading Company from shares will be compared to the TSR The LTIP is designed to provide the the comparator group and replace of a share in each company executive directors and other senior them with BG Group plc, First Calgary comprised in the comparator group executives with a long term incentive Petroleums Ltd. Venture Production over the performance period.
As with based on company performance.
As plc and John Wood Group PLC.
Tier One awards, each company will such, the performance conditions Neither of the comparator groups are then be ranked in order of TSR described above are deemed weighted by market capitalisation of performance.
Cairns position in the appropriate by the remuneration the constituent companies.
comparator group list will determine committee.
how many if any shares the subject Details of directors awards pursuant of the award will vest, as follows: The remuneration committee review to the LTIP are given on pages 33 and performance conditions on a regular 34 of this report.
all of the benefit will vest if Cairn basis and, following Cairns entry to achieves position number one in the the FTSE 250 Index, have decided to Annual Cash Bonus Scheme comparator group: replace performance against the FTSE Cairns annual cash bonus scheme Small Cap Index excluding has been in place since 1999 and 40% of the benefit will vest if Cairn investment trusts currently used for applies to all employees and reaches the upper quartile in the the first step of the TSR target executive directors.
Bonuses under comparator group: described on page 28, with the scheme are based on individual performance against the FTSE 250 and company performance measures.
The revised TSR target will Individual performance is measured 30 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Directors Remuneration Report continued through the Companys performance 66.6% of salary for the Chief Executive Service Contracts management system.
Company and 50% of salary for the other The Company's policy is for all performance measures are based on executive directors.
The bonuses executive directors to have contracts annually defined key performance awarded to the executive directors for of service which can be terminated by indicators KPIs.
The KPIs for 2003 performance in 2003 are shown in the either the director concerned or the encompassed various budgetary, table on page 32.
The maximum level Company on giving 12 months' notice portfolio growth and procedural of bonus award for other employees for of termination.
On a change of control compliance targets, the substantial 2003 was 40% of salary.
The maximum of the Company resulting in the majority of which were met.
For level of bonus award for the executive termination of a director's employees other than executive directors for 2004 will remain employment each of the directors is directors, only the individual and unchanged from 2003. entitled to compensation of a sum company performance measures equal to their annual basic salary and determine the overall bonus award.
The remuneration committee has the benefits as at the date of termination discretion to award bonuses in addition of employment.
For the executive directors, the 2003 to those payable under the annual cash bonus award was subject to one bonus scheme in recognition of The non-executive directors have additional performance measure, being particular efforts or achievements by letters of appointment which can be performance against annually defined employees, including executive terminated with immediate effect by corporate objectives, such that one directors.
either the director concerned or the third of the award was determined by Company.
The letters of appointment individual performance, one third by Pension Scheme do not contain a specific period - company performance and one third by The Company is the principal employer appointments and re-appointments of performance against corporate for one defined contribution pension non-executive directors are subject to objectives.
This additional performance scheme in the UK - the Cairn Energy the Company's Articles of Association, measure will also apply to executive PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme.
This which provide for retirement by directors in 2004.
The corporate scheme is non-contributory and all UK rotation at least every three years.
objectives for 2003, which were met employees aged 21 and over are subject to required Government eligible to participate in the scheme.
Details of the service contracts and approvals, included reserve addition letters of appointment of the current targets and the disposal of a Bill Gammell, Mike Watts and Kevin directors of the Company are given in substantial part of the Groups deep Hart are members of the Cairn Energy the table below.
Certain of the 2003 PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme and corporate objectives are commercially are entitled to a contribution to such The remuneration of the nonsensitive and are therefore excluded scheme equal to 15% of their executive directors takes the form from this report, as are the 2004 respective annual basic salaries.
solely of fees, which are set by the corporate objectives.
Malcolm Thoms has a personal Board having taken independent pension plan and receives a advice on appropriate levels.
The maximum level of bonus award for contribution from the Company equal the executive directors for 2003 was to 15% of his annual basic salary.
Effective Date Unexpired Term Notice Period Executive service contracts Bill Gammell 19.02.03 N A 12 months Mike Watts 19.02.03 N A 12 months Kevin Hart 19.02.03 N A 12 months Malcolm Thoms 19.02.03 N A 12 months Phil Tracy 06.02.04 N A 12 months Non-executive letters of appointment Norman Murray 19.02.03 N A None Hamish Grossart 19.02.03 N A None Ed Story 19.02.03 N A None Todd Hunt 14.05.03 N A None Mark Tyndall 10.10.03 N A None 31 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Performance Graphs compare Cairns TSR with that of the The FTSE 250 Index was selected as chosen index.
The bar chart is an appropriate comparator index for presented as additional information to the two performance graphs shown that required by the Directors below as it represents a broad equity Remuneration Report Regulations market index in which Cairn is a 2002. constituent member.
2 The annual bonus for 2003 is payable in the subsequent financial year.
3 Todd Hunt was appointed a director on 14 May 2003 and his remuneration reflects payments from that date.
4 Mark Tyndall was appointed a director on 10 October 2003 and his remuneration reflects payments from that date.
Directors Interests in Share Options The total number of share options held by the executive directors is as follows: At 01.01.03 Exercised in year At 31.12.03 At 09.03.04 Bill Gammell 205,000 205,000 205,000 Mike Watts 80,000 80,000 80,000 Kevin Hart 100,000 100,000 100,000 Malcolm Thoms 60,000 60,000 60,000 33 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 An analysis of options held by directors under each scheme during 2003 is as follows: 1988 Scheme Date of Grant Exercise Price Bill Gammell Mike Watts Kevin Hart Malcolm Thoms 31.08.94 0.78 55,000 1996 Scheme Date of Grant Exercise Price Bill Gammell Mike Watts Kevin Hart Malcolm Thoms 29.05.96 2.34 150,000 80,000 60,000 15.04.98 3.51 100,000 Kevin Hart previously held a further 100,000 options pursuant to the 1996 Scheme, which were granted on 2 September 1998 at an exercise price of 1.10 per share.
Mr Hart exercised these options on 9 May 2002 and subsequently sold 60,000 shares at a price of 3.415 per share.
The closing market value on the date of exercise was 3.37 per share, giving a potential aggregate gain on the exercise of 227,000.
None of the directors holds options under the 2002 Plan or the 2003 Plan.
The market value of one Cairn share at 31 December 2003 was 4.01.
During 2003, the range of the high and low market value of Cairn shares was 4.1175 to 2.775.
Vested Awards Details of awards which vested during 2003 are given in the table below.
Calculations to determine the number of shares vesting based on the performance conditions described on pages 28 and 29 of this report were carried out by Cairn and independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
The total aggregate gain made by the executive directors on vesting, based on the market value at the date of vesting times the total number of shares vesting, was 1,891,213 2002 total aggregate gain: 4,531,172.
