16 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2003 The Board presents this Report which has been prepared under the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 and applies for the first time for this financial year.
An Ordinary Resolution for the approval of this Report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Your Companys auditors are required to audit certain of the disclosures provided in this Report.
Where disclosures have been audited, they are indicated in this Report.
The auditors opinion is included in their Report on page 21.
Remuneration Committee All Directors are non-executive and all participate in meetings of the Board at which Directors remuneration is considered.
The Board seeks advice from the Secretaries, INVESCO Asset Management Limited, when considering the level of Directors fees.
The Board reviewed Directors remuneration during the year and concluded that [the amounts should remain unchanged for the present time.
Policy on Directors Remuneration The Boards policy is that the remuneration of non-executive Directors should be fair and reasonable in relation to that of other investment trusts.
It is intended that this policy will continue for the year ended 31 March 2004 and subsequent years.
Fees for the Directors are determined by the Board within the limits stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
The maximum currently dictated by the Companys Articles of Association is 50,000.
However, it is proposed to raise this limit to 75,000.
The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other incentives or benefits.
Directors Service Contracts It is the Boards policy that none of the Directors have a service contract.
The terms of the Directors appointment provide that a Director shall retire and be subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting after appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed from office without notice and that no compensation will be due on leaving office.
Your Companys Performance The graph below plots the total return to ordinary shareholders compared to the total return of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index over the five years to 31 March 2003.
This index is the benchmark adopted by the Company for comparison purposes.
NAV Total Return vs FT-SE All Share Total Return rebased to 100 at 31 03 98 140 NAV All Share Index 120 100 80 60 Mar-98 Mar-99 Mar-00 Mar-01 Mar-02 Mar-03 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 17 Directors Emoluments for the year audited The Directors who served during the year received the following emoluments in the form of fees: 2003 2002 000 000 Sir Patrick Sheehy Chairman of the Board 17 15 Sir Martyn Arbib 6 James DAlbiac 13 10 Edward Burke Anthony Scott Hardy 13 10 Stephen Whittaker.................................................................................................................. Total 49 35 No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Directors services.
Approval The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 June 2003.
Sir Patrick Sheehy Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
