Remuneration Report The following report by, and recommendations of, the Remuneration The strategy aims to ensure that: Committee have been approved by the Board, for submission the Group is able to attract and retain high calibre people by offering to shareholders.
The report also repeats a number of important competitive total rewards in all of the markets in which it operates: disclosures made in the 2002 Remuneration Report, in respect a high proportion of the overall package of its senior executives is of leaving settlements for Julian Hance and Bob Gunn.
The 2002 conditional on the achievement of business and financial objectives Remuneration Report was approved by shareholders at the last which deliver long term shareholder value: and Annual General Meeting.
Full details of these arrangements were also included in the rights issue prospectus isssued on 4 September 2003. the Group operates remuneration policies and plans which are fully transparent to shareholders.
Membership During the year, the following directors served on the Committee: Elements of remuneration Remuneration for executive directors and other senior executives John Maxwell, Chairman appointed 9 October 2003, Bob Ayling, in 2003 consisted of four principal elements, of which only base Stephen Hill appointed 9 October 2003, Susan Hooper, John Napier salary is pensionable: appointed 5 March 2003, Nicholas Barber, Chairman retired 30 September 2003, John Baker retired 30 September 2003, base salary: Sir Patrick Gillam retired 31 March 2003 and Carole St. Mark annual performance bonus: retired 30 September 2003. executive share options: and All of the non-executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Board to be independent.
pension provision and other benets.
The Remuneration Committee Where appropriate the Group encourages directors and senior The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for the managers to accept subject to the approval of the Chairman and determination of the conditions of employment and pay and benets the Group Chief Executive an invitation to join the Board of another of each of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Committee company in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such also has delegated responsibility from the Board for the exercise of wider experience.
In these circumstances, managers are permitted to certain powers under the terms of the Groups share option and retain the remuneration from the non-executive appointment.
other cash or share based incentive schemes including the Base salary application of relevant performance criteria and the phasing of The Committee believes that individual remuneration levels should be awards.
The Committee also considers and advises the Board on the appropriate to the scale of responsibility and performance of each Groups remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting individual as well as being market competitive.
In deciding appropriate to the Group Chief Executive.
levels the Committees policy is to relate base salaries to the mid market pay levels of companies of similar size and complexity operating in the Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest other UK and internationally in insurance and related financial services.
than as shareholders in the Committees decisions and they have no Salaries are reviewed annually based on an assessment of personal conicts of interest arising from cross directorships.
performance and contribution and taking account of any significant In its constitution and operation the Committee complies fully with movement in median salaries amongst the comparator group as well as the Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK the increase policy for salaries generally within the Group.
overall salary increase budget was around 3.5%.
Details of the executive directors individual remuneration are set Annual performance bonus out on pages 48 and 49 under the heading Remuneration auditable Each of the executive directors and all other direct reports to the part and their share interests on pages 50 and 51 under the Group Chief Executive are entitled to participate in an annual heading Directors Interests.
If stretching financial and business targets are met, participants are entitled to a bonus of up to 50% of base Advisors salary.
For outstanding performance an award of up to 100% of salary In developing remuneration and reward strategy the Committee is achievable.
The principal performance measure, accounting for actively seeks advice and obtains survey data from various just over half of the bonus, is the Groups combined operating ratio independent consultants.
During the year the Committee obtained COR as reected in its targeted return on risk based capital RORBC.
advice from Watson Wyatt and New Bridge Street Consultants.
The measure was chosen because it reects most accurately success Watson Wyatt are also the appointed actuaries of one of the in managing the major factors in an insurance business including Companys UK dened benefit pension schemes.
All the the effective use of capital, underwriting discipline and claims and remuneration consultants were selected and appointed as advisors by expense management.
Secondary measures accounting for the balance of the annual bonus The Group Chief Executive is invited to attend all meetings of the include a balanced scorecard of additional financial, customer service, Committee, except those when his own contract and remuneration expense control and people related objectives and evidence of are being discussed, to inform the Committee on matters relating to appropriate management style and behaviours.
Company performance and senior executive pay strategy.
Annual bonuses for senior executives with Regional business Remuneration policy principles responsibility are based 70% on the performance of their Region and The Committee has as its objective the development of reward 30% on Group results.
policies to support the Group business strategy, align the remuneration of the directors and senior managers with shareholder significant progress was made during 2003 in strengthening the interests and promote a high performance culture.
Groups capital position and improving underlying performance.
Details Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 45 previous contents next Remuneration Report continued of the bonuses to be paid to executive directors in respect of 2003 are Pension and other benets included in the tables of directors emoluments on pages 48 and 49.
Andy Haste and Julian Hance are members of the SAL Pension Scheme, one of three dened benefit schemes in the UK.
In addition, Long term incentive plans Andy Haste receives an age related taxable monthly allowance to Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS scheme enable him to make his own provision for retirement above the The Group currently offers a single long term incentive plan to earnings cap.
During 2003 he was paid an allowance of 24% of base salary for this purpose.
executive directors and other senior executives and managers outside the US, based on the phased award and vesting of executive share Julian Hance, who as already announced, will be leaving the Group in options, if specic performance criteria are met.
2004, accrues a pension at the rate of 1 60th of base salary per year of service, on a non contributory basis.
He is not currently subject to Under the current ESOS scheme, executive directors and other senior the pensionable earnings cap.
From 1 April 2004 the UK dened managers participating in the ESOS scheme are entitled to an award of benefit schemes will become contributory for existing members.
share options, the scale of which is directly related to an assessment by the Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee of their In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benets personal performance and contribution to the successful implementation available to other executive and senior managers including life of the Groups business and financial strategies.
Awards of up to one assurance at the rate of four times base salary, permanent health times base salary per year or more in exceptional cases can be and private medical insurance, and participation in the Royal & Sun made, which vest in full if at the end of the third year following the Alliance International Sharesave SAYE Plan.
They also have a choice year of grant and if the Group has achieved a net real rate of return between a company car and a monthly cash car allowance.
on capital ROC of at least 6% pa when averaged over the period.
Service contracts One retest is allowed at the end of the fourth year following the year The Committees policy on executive directors service contracts is that of grant, but if the performance criterion has not been met over the full they should contain a maximum notice period of one year.
However, four year period, the options lapse.
This follows a change in the rules in the event of termination on performance grounds the Committees approved by shareholders in May 2003, prior to which the test could policy in all cases would be to seek and apply mitigation, including be repeated on an annual basis over the ten year life of the option.
the phasing of any severance payments.
Options granted between October 1996 and September 1998 were Andy Hastes service contract commenced on 2 April 2003 and subject to the performance condition that the average total shareholder continues until terminated by the Company or by Andy Haste on return TSR of the Group must be equal to, or better than, the median 12 months notice.
Exceptionally, when Andy Haste was appointed of the companies in the FTSE 100 Index, over a consecutive period of Group Chief Executive, the Committee agreed that, in the event of three years between the third and tenth anniversary of grant.
termination other than on grounds of gross misconduct, he would No options are granted at an exercise price below market value on be entitled, within the first three years following his appointment or the date of grant.
The ESOS scheme is funded through a combination within two years of a change in control occurring before the third of new issue and shares purchased in the market.
Dilution levels are anniversary of his appointment, to liquidated damages equal to one held strictly within ABI limits 10% over ten years for all schemes and years base salary, the average of any annual bonuses paid during the 5% for executive schemes.
previous two years and one years pension contributions and other taxable benets.
US long term incentive plan In 2000 shareholders approved an alternative share option scheme Julian Hances service contract commenced on 1 April 1997 and, had for US managers based on established US market practice.
Grants of he not given six months notice, would also have continued and been options over American Depositary Shares ADSs equivalent to five terminable by the Company on 12 months notice.
ordinary shares in the Group are made no more than twice a year, Bob Gunn was employed under a Canadian employment agreement, and are subject to a higher overall value ceiling than for UK directors dated 2 May 1973, that did not provide for notice.
Options vest incrementally between the first and provisions were a matter for mutual agreement in the context of seventh anniversary of grant proportionately to the achievement of Canadian employment law and practice.
a ROC by the US operations over a one year period in excess of 6%.
All outstanding options vest at the end of seven years.
Non-executive directors Until 2003, directors appointed to non-executive roles did not have Following the announcement in September 2003 of the restructuring service agreements.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus of the US businesses and the sale of renewal rights on most payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the commercial lines business to the Travelers Corporation, the Groups long term incentive plans.
Committee exercised its discretion under the US long term incentive plan to vary the performance conditions for future grants, so that Under the Groups Articles of Association, the remuneration paid to the plan could be used as part of a retention programme for key non-executive directors is determined by the Board, within limits set employees, to incentivise the achievement of financial, claims control by shareholders.
The fee for 2003 was 35,000 per annum, with an and reinsurance recovery targets appropriate to the changed business additional fee of 10,000 per annum for chairing the Audit & objectives of the Group in the US.
With the exception of the Chairman, non-executive directors fees have remained unchanged for Share ownership guidelines four years.
The executive directors and other senior executives participating in the John Napiers letter of appointment was effective from 9 January Group long term incentive plans are currently required to build and to 2003 and is for an initial period of three years.
It may be terminated retain a minimum shareholding of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance earlier by the Chairman on three months notice to the Company.
Group plc shares as the result of the exercise of their executive share While he was a non-executive director, his fees were 60,000 per options over a period of five years equal in value to at least one times their base salary.
From 17 March 2003, when he took over as 46 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Chairman, the fee payable to John Napier has been at the rate of Total Shareholder Return for Royal & SunAlliance 250,000 per annum.
This gure was agreed by the Board, having and FTSE World Europe Insurance Index taken advice from the Groups independent remuneration consultants 150 that it was comparable to that paid for similar appointments in international and financial services companies.
120 Edward Lea and John Maxwell both have letters of appointment which are effective from 10 July 2003, and request one months notice should they wish to resign.
90 Historical Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graphs opposite are included in the report of the Committee as 60 a requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The first graph shows the TSR of the Group by reference to the 30 FTSE World Europe Insurance Index and the second the TSR of the Group by reference to the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE World Europe Insurance Index comprises the range of European life and general 31 12 98 31 12 99 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 insurance businesses which most closely match our trading competitor peer group.
Royal & SunAlliance Index TSR reects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over FTSE World Europe Insurance Index time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
For information, the Royal & SunAlliance line as above is also compared with the total FTSE 100 Index.
The graphs opposite show the change in value of the Groups shares over the five years from 31 December 1998 relative to the two Total Shareholder Return for Royal & SunAlliance comparator groups.
