x DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors Remuneration Report The Board has prepared this report, in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, which applies for the first time this financial year.
An ordinary resolution for the approval of this report will be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The law requires the Companys auditors to audit certain of the disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on page 31.
Remuneration Committee The Company has six Directors all of whom are non-executive.
There is no separate remuneration committee and the Board as a whole considers changes to Directors fees from time to time.
Baillie Gifford & Co, who have been appointed by the Board as Managers and Secretaries, provide advice when the Board considers the level of Directors fees.
Policy on Directors fees The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Directors should be set at a reasonable level that is commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the role and consistent with the requirement to attract and retain Directors of the appropriate quality and experience.
It should also reflect the experience of the Board as a whole, be fair and should take account of the level of fees paid by comparable investment trusts.
It is intended that this policy will continue for the year ended 31 March 2004 and subsequent years.
The fees for the non-executive Directors are determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
These state that the fees paid to the Chairman shall not exceed 30,000 per annum and those paid to a Director shall not exceed 20,000 per annum.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits.
The Board carried out a review of the level of Directors fees during the year, and concluded that the fees should be increased from 21,000 to 22,000 for the Chairman and from 15,000 to 16,000 per Director.
The increase was effective from 1 April 2002.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company in respect of the Directors.
Directors service contracts It is the Boards policy that none of the Directors has a service contract.
All of the Directors were provided with appointment letters during the course of the year.
The terms of their appointment provide that a Director shall retire and be subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Thereafter they are obliged to retire by rotation, and, if they wish, to offer themselves for re-election, at least every three years after that.
There is no notice period and no provision for compensation upon early termination of appointment.
Company performance The graph below compares the total return assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary shareholders compared to the total shareholder return on a notional investment made up of shares in the component parts of the FTSE All-Share Index.
This index was chosen for comparison purposes, as it is a widely used measure of performance for UK listed companies.
Benchmark provided for information purposes only.
All figures are total return assuming all dividends are reinvested.
Benchmark: 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Ex UK Index THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 29 in sterling terms.
