REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration report is divided into two sections, unaudited and audited information in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The audited information may be found on pages 56 and 57.
The Remuneration Committee The compensation of Executive Directors and members of the GEC is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Dr. Rolf Stomberg Chairman, Dr. Pamela J. Kirby, Warren Knowlton, who was appointed in May 2003, and Richard fide Schutter.
Sir Timothy Lankester retired as a member of the committee on 29 April 2003.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, it determines the broad policy for executive remuneration.
It reviews annually the remuneration, including pension entitlements, for Executive Directors and members of the GEC, and determines the operation of and the participants in the long-term incentive plan, share option schemes and the executive bonus plan.
It reviews the relationship between the remuneration of Executive Directors and that of other employees and the competitiveness of executive remuneration, using data from independent consultants on companies of similar size, technologies and international complexity.
It also reviews management succession planning.
The Committee is assisted by Sir Christopher ODonnell, the Chief Executive and Paul Williams, the Group Human Resources Director, both of whom have advised on all aspects of the Groups reward structures and policies.
In 2003, it received information from a number of independent consultants: Watson Wyatt on a broad range of remuneration issues: Towers Perrin and Hay Group on salary data: and Monks Partnership an affiliate of  LLP on long-term incentive plan comparative performance.
Watson Wyatt also acts as one of the retirement benefit consultantstothe Group.
Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy for 2003 and future years approved by the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that remuneration is sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and GEC members of a calibre that meets the Groups needs to achieve its performance against financial objectives and relevant competitors practice.
Remuneration includes base pay and benefits which are targeted at median competitive levels for fully acceptable performance, and bonus schemes which are designed to motivate and reward for outperformance.
Individual remuneration levels are based on measurable performance against fair and open objectives and there are no automatic pay adjustments unless required by law or local protocol.
As a longer-term objective, all employees should have the opportunity to share in the success of the business.
Major changes to the  discussed withthe .
The principal components of remuneration, for Executive Directors and the GEC members are: basic salary and benefits: performance related bonus: long-term share incentives or performance share plans : share options and pensions.
Proposals to change the structure of some of these components for 2004 and thereafter are detailed onpages 54and55.
Basic Salary and Benefits Basic salary reflects the responsibility of the job and individual performance.
The Group also provides certain benefits suchas private  a .
Performance-Related Bonus For Executive Directors, the Group operates an annual bonus scheme, 75% of which is based on annual growth in adjusted basic earnings per share before deducting goodwill amortisation EPSA and 25% of which is based on return on operating capital employed.
The scheme is designed to encourage outstanding performance which the Remuneration Committee considers would contribute most to increasing shareholder value.
Achievement of targets should produce a bonus of 30% of annual salary with a maximum of 100% for outperformance that demonstrates a step .
For members of the GEC with corporate responsibilities, excluding Executive Directors, the annual bonus plan is linked to earnings per share, return on capital employed and personal objectives.
For those members with specific business unit responsibilities, targets are linked to earnings per share and sales, profit and return on capital employed oftheirrespective business unit.
51 Long-Term Incentives The Group operates a long-term incentive plan LTIP for Executive Directors and members of the GEC to motivate and reward these key executives to significantly enhance the value of the Group.
Under this plan shares are transferred to participants depending on the Groups performance relative to a group of 42 UK listed manufacturing companies with substantial international activities, using total shareholder return TSR over a three-year period as the prime measure.
The maximum value of shares awarded for Executive Directors will not exceed the participants annual rate of basic salary at the date the award is granted, and for members of the GEC it will not exceed 75% of their annual basic salary.
Shares will only be transferred to the participants if the Groups TSR performance is at or above the median performance of the comparator companies, and growth in the Groups EPSA exceeds growth in the United Kingdom Retail Price Index RPI in the same three-year period.
At the median level, 25% of the award shares will vest.
If the Groups performance is in the top quartile, all the shares will vest.
For performance between the median and the top quartile, the proportion of shares vesting will vary on a straight-line basis.
The Groups TSR performance and its performance relative to the comparator group is independently monitored by Monks Partnership an affiliate of PriceWaterhouse Coopers LLP.
TSR subject to real EPSA growth was identified and selected as the performance condition that represented a fair measure of the Groups performance and would reflect increases in shareholder value.
Every encouragement is given to Executive Directors and senior managers to build up a significant shareholding in the Group.
Participants in the LTIP who have not left the Group will at the fifth and seventh anniversaries of the date of the award be given one additionalbonusshare forevery five soretained.
 followingcompanies: Aga FoodserviceGroup Coats JohnsonMatthey Rolls-Royce AstraZeneca Group CooksonGroup LairdGroup Scapa Group BAE Systems CrodaInternational Low& Bonar  BalfourBeatty DeLaRue Marconi Spirent BBAGroup Delta  Tate & Lyle BOCGroup Elementis Novar Tomkins BPB FKI Pilkington TTElectronics BritishVita GKN Reckitt Benckiser Unilever UK Bunzl Halma REXAM WeirGroup CadburySchweppes ICI RMC Group Charter IMI Share Options Executive Directors were last granted options under executive share option schemes in 1996, which were not subject to performance conditions of exercise.
The exercise of options granted to members of the GEC between 1997 and 2000 is subject to growth in adjusted basic earnings per share after deducting goodwill amortisation of not less than RPI plus 2% per annum in any period of three consecutive years.
The Remuneration Committee determines the maximum multiple of an executives annual remuneration which is applied to limit the number of shares over which options in any year be granted to an executive.
Currently the maximum multiples applied are one times in the UK and one and a half times in the US.
For 2001 and 2002, under the Smith & Nephew 2001 UK Approved Share Option Plan and the Smith & Nephew 2001 UK Unapproved Share Option Plan the exercise of options is subject to adjusted basic earnings per share growth after deducting goodwill amortisation of not less than RPI plus 3% per annum, on average, in a performance period of three consecutive years.
In 2003 basic adjusted earnings per share growth after deducting goodwill amortisation was replaced by adjusted basic earnings per share growth before deducting goodwill amortisation.
In the event the performance target is not met by the end of the third year, the performance period is extended to four years.
If it has not been met after four years, the performance period is extended to five years.
If it has still not been met at the end of the fifth year the options will lapse.
Performance conditions were selected to be in line with market practice at the time.
Options granted under the Smith & Nephew 2001 US Share Plan, in line with US market practice, are not subject to performance targets but are exercisable cumulatively up to a maximum of 10% after one year, 30% after two years, 60% after three years and the remaining balance after four years.
Since 2002, members of the GEC are not granted share options except on appointment.
Share options are not offered at a discount to the market value at the time of grant.
UK Executive Directors and members of the GEC are eligible to contribute to the Smith & Nephew Employee Share Option Scheme Sharesave and US members of the GEC are eligible to participate in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
52 Pensions Executive Directors and the UK based members of GEC have a normal retirement age of 62 and participate in the defined benefit Smith & Nephew UK Pension Fund and UK Executive Pension Scheme, under which pension has been accrued in the year at an annual rate of one-thirtieth of final pensionable salary, up to a limit, based on service, of two-thirds of final pensionable salary subject to Inland Revenue constraints.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum or the rate of inflation in the UK, if lower.
Death in service cover of four times salary and spouses pension at the rate of two-thirds of the members pension are provided on death.
A supplementary unfunded defined contribution arrangement partially compensates for the UK Inland Revenue .
The US based members of GEC participate in either the defined benefit Smith & Nephew US Pension Plan or the US Savings Plan 401 k Plus.
Under the US Pension Plan pensions accrue at an annual rate of approximately onesixty second of final pensionable salary, up to a limit, based on service, of 60% of final pensionable salary.
The plan also provides for a spouses pension at the rate of one-half of the members pension on death.
Normal retirement age under the plan is 65.
A supplementary defined benefit plan is used to enable benefits to be payable from age 62 without reduction for early retirement as for UK executives.
A supplementary defined contribution plan is used to compensate for the earnings cap imposed by the US Internal Revenue Code and to provide additional retirement benefits.
Under the US Savings Plan 401 k Plus, a defined contribution amount is paid.
ServiceContracts Executive Directors, in line with Group policy, are appointed on contracts terminable by the Group on not more than twelve months notice.
All new appointments of Executive Directors are intended to have twelve-month notice periods, but it is recognised that for some appointments a longer period may initially be necessary for competitive reasons, reducing to twelve months thereafter.
Sir Christopher ODonnell, appointed to the Board of Directors in September 1992, has a service agreement with the Company dated January 1992 which expires on his 62nd birthday in October 2008.
Peter Hooley, appointed to the Board of Directors in April 1991 has a service contract with the Company dated January 1992 which expires on his 62nd birthday in June 2008.
Both service agreements are terminable by the Company on not more than twelve months notice and by the Executive Director on six-months notice.
Termination of the contract by the Group, except for cause, would entitle the Executive Directors to twelve months basic salary, bonus at target of 30%, a contribution of 30% of salary to reflect the loss ofpensionbenefits,  and a time apportionmentof the LTIPentitlement.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment and are normally appointed for terms of three years terminable at will, without notice by either the Group or the director and without compensation.
The Chairman has a three-month notice period.
Their remuneration is determined by the Nominations Committee who aim to set fees that are competitive with other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
External  Non-executive directorships provide Executive Directors with valuable experience beneficial to the Company.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations Committee and restricted to one appointment foreachExecutive Director.
All fees are paid to the Company.
53 Performance Graph Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 requires a graph to be published showing the Companys TSR against the TSR performance of a broad equity market index.
As a component company of the FTSE 100 index a graph of the Companys TSR performance compared to that of the TSR of the index is shownbelow.
Remuneration Proposals 2004 Over the last four years, Smith & Nephew has transformed its business into a high technology, high performing global medical devices company.
During that period, the Group has delivered consistent growth and high levels of total shareholder return.
As the current long-term incentive plan pre-dates this period of transformation, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed whether any changes need to be introduced to maintain and enhance this record of success.
Having taken advice from Watson Wyatt, the Remuneration Committee has determined that current arrangements for senior executives need to be restructured to maintain competitiveness and to be more highly geared to target the highest levels of performance.
This is consistent with the stated policy of the Remuneration Committee to provide base pay and benefits which are targeted at median competitive levels for fully acceptable performance and bonus plans which are designed to motivate and reward for outperformance.
The Remuneration Committee is also mindful of an increasingly competitive recruitment environment for executives both in the UK and the US where the greater proportion of the senior group of Smith & Nephew executives are based whohave a proven recordof success.
Commencing in 2004 and subject to shareholder approval, the following new long-term incentive arrangements, the 2004 Plan, are presently intended to apply to Executive Directors and the top 40 senior executives includingthose onGEC : a new Performance Share Plan: a new Share Option Plan: and a Co-Investment Plan, to  to build and maintaina stake inthe business.
The proposedPerformance Share Plan It is intended to make awards over shares in the Company dependant upon the performance of the Company.
These awards would be made annually and would vest only if defined levels of shareholder returns are attained over a fixed period of three financial years beginning with that in which the award is made.
It is intended that the award shares would be divided into two tranches so as to measure total shareholder returns relative to both the UK FTSE-100 index and the major companies in the medical devices industry which would include Boston Scientific, Conmed, Coloplast, Orthofix, St Jude Medical, Wright Medical, Johnson & Johnson, Edwards LifeSciences Corp, Stryker, Biomet, Medtronic, Beckton Dickinson, Baxter, Synthes-Stratec, Guidant, Arthrocare and Zimmer.
The initial split of awards between the two comparative groups will be 50% UK FTSE-100 index and 50% the medical devices companies.
If, in relation to either tranche, the Company is ranked at or exceeds 54 the median level, 25% of the award shares in that tranche would vest.
If the Company is ranked at the 75th centile counting from the bottom, all of the award shares in that tranche would vest.
The percentage of award shares which vest if the Company is ranked between those levels would increase pro-rata, on a straight-line basis, between 25% and 100% of the award shares.
If the Company is ranked above the 75th centile, the number of shares which vest would be further increased pro-rata, on a straight-line basis, up to a maximum of 150% of the award shares at or above the 90th centile.
There will be no vesting if the performance is not achievedafter three years andthere willbe noretesting.
The proposedShare Option Plan Under the new share option plan annual share option grants would be made at market value up to the equivalent of the participants basic annual salary.
These will be exercisable after three years provided the earnings per share performance targets for each three-year period set by the Remuneration Committee have been met.
It is intended that, in relation to options granted in 2004, 25% of the option shares will vest if growth in EPSA over the three-year period ending 31 December 2006 is or exceeds 26% i. e. 8%, compounded annually, with 50% vesting if such growth is at least 48% i. e. 14%, compounded annually.
Only if growth in EPSA over that period exceeds 73% i. e. 20%, compounded annually will all of the option shares vest.
Option shares will vest pro rata, on a straight-line basis, if growth in EPSA over that period is between these levels.
There will be no re-testing if the performancetarget isnotachievedafter three years.
The  Plan Under this plan, up to a maximum of one-half of the annual gross bonus, capped at 20% of basic annual salary for Executive Directors and members of the GEC and 18% of basic annual salary for other participants, may be set aside as investment in the plan.
The net after tax amount of the gross amount set aside would then be used to purchase shares in the Company.
If such shares are held for three years, and the Company achieves a target level of growth in EPSA over that three-year period of at least 48% i. e. 14%, compounded annually, the participant will be entitled to one matching share for every share that could have been acquired out of the gross equivalent amount of the net bonus used to acquire shares.
If growth in EPSA is at least 60% i. e. 17%, compounded annually, the participant would then be entitled to two matching shares for each share which could have been so acquired out of the gross equivalent amount of the net bonus applied to shares.
There is no sliding scale orpro-ratavesting ofmatchingawards between these performancetargets, and re-testing is notpermitted.
 A shareholding requirement will be introduced for Executive Directors and senior executives which will require Executive Directors to build a shareholding in the Company over a five-year period equal to basic annual salary.
Appropriate shareholdingtargets willbe set forthe .
These proposals, further details of which may be found in the letter to shareholders accompanying these Accounts, have been discussed with several major institutional shareholders and approval will be sought from shareholders at the AnnualGeneral Meetingto be held on6 May 2004.
55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 2003 DirectorsEmoluments and Pensions Total Total Total Total emoluments including excluding including Salaries excluding pension pension pension and pension Pension entitlements entitlements entitlements fees Benefits i Bonus entitlements entitlements 2003 2002 2002 thousands Chairman non-executive : Dudley G. Eustace...................... 190 190 190 170 170 Executive Directors: ................ 548 28 454 1,030 42 1,072 856 890 Peter Hooley.......................... 312 15 259 586 84 670 511 583 Non-executive Directors: Dr. RolfW.
Pensions Transfer Increase in Transfer Accrued Increase in Accrued valueof transfer valueof pension accrued pension accrued Directors valueover accrued asat pension at pension contributions year less pension 1 Jan excluding 31 Dec at1Jan during directors at31 Dec 2003 inflation 2003 2003 2003 contributions 2003 per annum .................. 153,000 40,000 195,000 1,880,000 27,000 898,000 2,805,000 Peter Hooley............................ 29,000 3,000 32,000 359,000 4,000 103,000 466,000 An amount of 81,000 2002 69,000 was provided under the supplementary unfunded defined contribution arrangementforPeter Hooley, bringinghistotal benefit underthe plan to 400,000 2002 319,000.
For Sir Christopher ODonnell and Peter Hooley, 56% of total remuneration excluding pension entitlement was base salary andbenefits and44% related toGroupperformance.
No amounts have been paid to third parties in respect of directors services and no excess retirement benefits or compensationhave been paid topast directors.
4 Includes vestingof2000 LTIP award 155,065 shares and  shares 32,252 shares.
5 Includes vestingof2000 LTIP award 96,916 shares and  shares 20,574 shares.
The range in the market price of the Groups Ordinary Shares during the year was 329.5p to 482.5p and the market price at 31 December 2003 was 469.5p.
Exercise prices of all outstanding options at 31 December 2003 were below 469.5p.
The total profit on exercise of options during the year was 162,750 as set out above 2002 211,950: Peter Hooley211,950.
LTIP Awards The maximum number of shares tobe allocated to eachExecutive Directorunderthe LTIP, all fornilconsideration, are: Maximum Market Number number price at ofshares ofshares date of Market awarded awarded Awards award price at at31 Latest at1 Jan during Market Vested 1July date of Dec performance 2003 the year price award 2000 vesting 2003 period Number p Number p p Number ............... 386,488 139,609 404.7 155,065 243.0 399.3 371,032 31.12.06 Peter Hooley......................... 236,824 79,070 404.7 96,916 243.0 399.3 218,978 31.12.06 For the three-year plan period commencing 2001, the Groups TSR of 76.85% was ranked third in the comparator group and the earnings per share performance criterion was met, enabling the plan participants to be eligible for 100% ofthe shares awarded conditionallyin2001.
DirectorsInterests Beneficialinterests ofthe Directorsinthe OrdinaryShares of the Companyare as follows: 8March2004 i 31 December2003 1 January2003 Shares ii Options Shares ii Options Shares ii Option Number DudleyG.
ii Holdingsofthe directorstogether represent lessthan 1%ofthe OrdinaryShare Capitalofthe Company.
57 In addition to the above, on 16 March 2004, Sir Christopher ODonnell will become entitled to 110,544 Ordinary Shares and Peter Hooley to 69,090 Ordinary Shares in respect of the 100% vesting of the 2001 long-term incentive plan.
There were no other changes in the interests of Directors between 31 December 2003 and 16 March2004.
The register of directors interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office, contains full details  options.
Senior Management Remuneration For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on remuneration and interests of directors and members of the Companys administrative, supervisory or management bodies the senior management.
For the purposes of this disclosure, senior management comprises members of GEC.
In respect of the financial year 2003 the total compensation excluding pension emoluments but including payments under the performance related bonus plans paid to members of GEC for the periods during which they served in that capacity was 4,240,000, the aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits was 79,000, the aggregate payment to defined contribution schemes was 7,000 and the aggregate amounts provided for under the supplementary schemes was 310,000.
During 2003 members of the GEC were granted options over 401,884 shares under the LTIP and options over 6,086 shares under all the employee sharesave schemes and awarded 444,999 shares in the LTIP.
As of 8 March 2004 members of the GEC comprised of nine persons owned 448,131 shares and 362 ADSs, constituting less than one per cent of the issued share capital of the Company.
Members of the GEC also held, as of this date, options to purchase 1,328,737 shares and 20,000 ADSs: and 1,078,562 shares awarded underthe LTIP.
Byorderofthe Board, 16March2004: Paul Chambers Secretary 58
