Remuneration Report Unaudited information iii Long-term incentives Until 24 March 2003 the Remuneration Committee consisted of The long-term incentive plans that have been used are an Mr Michael Cassidy, Mr Derek Higgs, Lord Burns and Mr Robert Executive Share Option Scheme and a Restricted Share Plan.
On that date the Committee was reconstituted as follows: Under the Executive Share Option Scheme, market value 42 Mr Derek Higgs, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Lord options are granted at the discretion of the Committee.
Options Burns, Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith and Mr David Michels.
may become exercisable after three years or five years in certain The Remuneration Committee took advice during the year from cases, dependent on the performance target being met.
The perMr John Ritblat, Mr John Weston Smith, Mr Anthony Braine and from formance target, agreed following consultation with the Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow as adviser to the Committee.
In addition Pension Funds, requires growth in net asset value per share over Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow acts as actuary to the British Land Group a rolling three year period equal to or exceeding the growth in the Final Salary Pension Scheme and gives advice on share scheme and capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank personnel policy matters to the Company.
No options have been granted under this scheme since 1996.
Statement of Companys Policy on directors remuneration Under the Restricted Share Plan, executives and directors are The Company has developed over the years a policy that involves granted provisional interests in securities of the Company that each director having a remuneration package consisting of several vest according to performance against a target, agreed following remuneration components.
The fixed part of the package is a comconsultation with the Association of British Insurers and the bination of basic salary and benefits.
In addition, the Company has National Association of Pension Funds, which requires growth in an annual incentive plan and a long-term incentive plan.
The policy net asset value per share over a rolling three year period equal to is tailored to support the strategic objective of delivering long-term or exceeding the growth in the capital growth component of the value to shareholders.
Investment Property Databank annual Index.
There is a stepped incentive scale in bands of achievement as follows: i Basic salary and benefits Percentage by which British Lands average annual Relevant Percentage Basic salary and benefits in kind for each executive director are Net Asset Value Growth per share exceeds the average to be applied to number reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and take into annual increase in the capital growth component of ordinary shares of the Investment Property Databank annual Index provisionally granted account individual responsibility, experience and performance as 5% or more 150% well as the market-place for similar positions in comparable com- 4% or more but less than 5% 125% panies.
Benefits normally include the provision of a car, fuel, 3% or more but less than 4% 100% private medical insurance and permanent health insurance.
2% or more but less than 3% 75% Pensions are provided under approved and unapproved 1% or more but less than 2% 50% schemes.
The aim has been to provide executives with at least 0% or more but less than 1% 25% 20 years service at age 60 with benefits equivalent to a pension Less than 0% 0% at that age of two-thirds of basic salary less the single persons basic state pension.
The Company policy will need to be The Committee reviews these performance conditions on a regular reviewed if the Inland Revenue proposed changes to pensions basis to ensure that they are both sufficiently stretching and that set out in the Green Paper of December 2002 are enacted.
they remain relevant to the Companys strategic objectives.
The following summarises the annual package and relative ii Annual incentive plan importance for an index base salary of 100 for each executive The annual incentive plan consists of a cash bonus payable to director.
executive directors reflecting the individuals contribution to the Company during the preceding year and team performance.
Salary 100 Target award levels are 40% of base salary for above satisfactory Benefits 10 performance and 75% of salary for outstanding performance.
The Bonuses up to 40-75 awards are not contractual and are not pensionable.
In assessing corporate performance the Remuneration Committee looks at a In addition annual grants under the long-term incentive plan are tarnumber of performance measures as appropriate to the pargeted at 100-150. ticular year.
All of the performance measures are consistent with Messrs Bowden, Nicholas Ritblat and Roberts also receive penthe long-term growth of the net asset value of the Company.
sion benefits as set out on page 46.
The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Performance measure for current long-term incentives Performance Graph The Company has given much thought as to the most appropriate The graph below is prepared in accordance with The Directors performance measure to use to align the interest of the executive Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It shows the Companys total with that of the Company, and to strengthen links between individual return and that of the FTSE Real Estate Sector Total Return Index for 43 and shareholder interests.
the five years from 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2003.
The Company considers that the most relevant measure of sucThe FTSE Real Estate Sector Index was chosen because that is cess in determining whether its strategy has been achieved is by where the shares of the Company are classified.
Hewitt Bacon & reference to growth in net asset value per share.
Woodrow prepared the graph based on underlying data provided In benchmarking performance the Company compares its net by Datastream.
asset value per share performance with the capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank annual Index.
The The British Land Company PLC Total Return Index vs FTSE Real Investment Property Databank Index contains the greatest number of Estate Sector Total Return Index Rebased 1 April 1998 for the properties similar in nature to those in which the Company invests.
It 5 years ending 31 March 2003 is the standard benchmark for investors to analyse the performance 150 of property in the UK market and thus provides a straightforward and well recognised comparison.
The Company is geared whilst the index is not and therefore stretching out-performance is required for 100 the entire award to vest.
Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow undertakes the measurement of performance and submits a report to the Company showing the results 50 for each specific award.
Directors contracts 0 The general policy of the Company is to have service contracts with Apr 99 Apr 00 Apr 01 Apr 02 Mar 03 notice periods of one year.
However, it is sometimes necessary when recruiting a new director to give a service contract with an initial term The British Land Company PLC of longer than one year.
In such circumstances it is the policy of the FTSE Real Estate Sector Company that the notice period should reduce to one year after an initial period of service.
The Company applies the principle of mitigation in the event of early termination of service contracts.
Non-executive Directors Mr John Ritblat, Mr Metliss, Mr Weston Smith and Mr Bowden do The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the not have service contracts with the Company.
executive members of the Board.
Their remuneration comprises a Mr Nicholas Ritblat has a service contract dated 12 November standard directors fee, a fee for additional responsibilities and an 1991 and amended by side letters dated 9 June 1997 and 29 May attendance fee based on the number of meetings attended during 2002.
It is a rolling contract providing for one years notice.
The remuneration provided takes into account the level of Mr Roberts joined the Company in January 2002 as an responsibility, experience and abilities required and the marketexecutive director under a service contract dated 19 November 2001. place for similar positions in comparable companies.
Mr Roberts service contract provided on his appointment as a director for 12 months notice to expire on or any time after 1 January 2005.
There are no further provisions for compensation payable on termination of service contracts of directors.
There has been no compensation paid to departing directors during the year.
Directors emoluments reflect all amounts payable in relation to services provided during that year.
Bonuses were previously disclosed in the year in which they were paid.
Directors and their interests in share and loan capital Beneficial interests of the Directors in the share and loan capital of the Company.
The shares allotted were priced at the middle market quotation at close of business on 3 April 2003, which was 398.75p.
Directors options and Restricted Share Plan interests by date of grant and exercise price i 1984 Share Option Scheme Beneficial interests of the Directors under the Companys 1984 Share Option Scheme in Ordinary Shares of the Company.
These options are linked to corresponding grants of options.
Accordingly the exercise of one linked option over a number of shares automatically causes its counterpart to lapse in respect of the same number of shares: therefore these options do not increase the total number of shares under option.
The totals in the table reflect the number of shares under option.
All new grants of options are subject to a performance target which has been approved by the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The middle market quotation for the Ordinary 25p shares of the Company at the close of business on 31 March 2003 was 410.75p.
The highest and lowest middle market quotations during the year to 31 March 2003 were 628.5p and 403p The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report Remuneration Report ii Sharesave Scheme Beneficial interests of the Directors under the Companys Sharesave Scheme in Ordinary Shares of the Company.
On 22 July 2002 Mr N S J Ritblat exercised his option over 1,091 shares at an option price of 355p per share.
The middle market quotation for the Ordinary 25p shares of the Company on 22 July 2002 was 530p, realising a notional gain of 175p per share, as he continues to hold these shares.
iii Restricted Share Plan Beneficial interests of the Directors under the Companys Restricted Share Plan in the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
The amounts distributed in the year to 31 March 2003 represent the market value of the grant which vested on 2 September 2002 together with dividends arising on the beneficial interests for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The release on 2 September 2002 of the shares granted on 1 September 1999 at 150% of their original nominal value was subject to tax at 40%, on their market value at vesting.
In order to meet their tax liabilities certain directors sold a number of these released ordinary 25p shares on 2 September 2002 as follows: Mr Weston Smith sold 30,000 shares, Mr N S J Ritblat sold 36,000 shares and Mr Bowden sold 24,000 shares.
The middle market quotation of the ordinary 25p shares of the Company on 2 September 2002 was 469p.
Upon vesting shares are transferred out of the British Land Share Ownership Plan the Trust, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the incentive schemes.
The trustees of the Trust purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the open market and rights to dividends on shares held by the Trust are payable in accordance with their awards to employees participating in the Companys restricted share plan.
The cost of these shares and any associated expenses have been charged to the profit and loss account in the year of purchase.
The British Land Company PLC Directors pension benefits for the year In consequence of the new Directors Remuneration Report Three executive directors, Mr N S J Ritblat, Mr Bowden and Mr Roberts, Regulations 2002, company accounts are subject to two sets of earned pension benefits in The British Land Group of Companies disclosure requirements in relation to directors pensions rather than Approved Final Salary Pension Scheme during the year.
The extended Companies Act 1985 requirements have to be and Mr Roberts benefits from the tax approved scheme are restricted observed in addition to, not in place of, the current UK Listing by the earnings cap and they are, therefore, entitled to benefit from the Authority requirements.
The requirements differ slightly and these Companys Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme FURBS.
Regulations are expected to remain in force for the next 2 or 3 years.
The benefits provided by the FURBS are defined lump sums.
The two tables shown below provide the details of the directors Non-executive directors do not participate in any Company sponpensions necessary to satisfy the two sets of requirements.
The pension benefits earned during the year by Mr Ritblat, 46 Mr Bowden and Mr Roberts were as follows: Companies Act 1985 Disclosure Requirements Additional Transfer Transfer Increase in Increase in Total accrued pension Accrued value of value of transfer value accrued FURBS FURBS earned pension accrued accrued less directors lump sum lump sum during entitlement pension at pension contributions paid entitlement entitlement Age at the year at year end start of year at year end during the year during the year at year end Name year end pa pa N. S. J. Ritblat 41 21,700 93,100 514,500 739,800 225,300 R. E. Bowden 59 2,500 22,900 339,100 437,300 98,200 133,500 435,000 G. C. Roberts 44 3,300 4,100 6,700 37,600 30,900 74,900 92,900 see note 3b UK Listing Authority Disclosure Requirements Increase in Transfer value of Increase in accrued Total accrued Premiums paid accrued pension Total additional pension FURBS lump sum FURBS in respect of during the year accrued pension earned less directors entitlement during lump sum life cover in excess of entitlement contributions paid the year in excess entitlement at Age at inflation at year end during the year of inflation year end Name year end pa pa N. S. J. Ritblat 41 20,500 93,100 162,600 1,450 R. E. Bowden 59 2,100 22,900 40,500 128,400 435,000 9,100 G. C. Roberts 44 3,200 4,100 30,100 74,600 92,900 2,700 see note 3b Notes: ePensions are guaranteed to increase each year in line with the increase in the Retail Prices 1 The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60 Index RPI subject to a maximum of 5%.
The Trustees may grant additional discretionary based on service to the end of the year.
The total accrued FURBS lump sum entitlement shown increases subject to the consent of the Company.
Statutory increases apply to pensions is that which would be paid, on retirement at age 60 based on service to the end of the year.
2 Members of the scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions.
Neither the f The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
3 The following is additional information relating to directors pensions for those included in the gTransfer value calculations allow for discretionary pension increases such that, in aggregate, above table: pension increases in line with increases in the RPI are valued.
Main Scheme a Normal retirement age for pension arrangements is age 60.
FURBS b Members of the scheme were not required to pay contributions during the year.
a Normal retirement age for pension arrangements is age 60. cRetirement may take place at any age after 50 subject to the consent of both the Company and b Retirement may take place at any age after 50 subject to the Companys consent.
Benefits the Trustees of the pension scheme.
Pensions are reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
are reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
d On death in service, the arrangement provides a capital sum equal to four times salary and a cOn death in service top up lump sums are provided so that, in aggregate, the payee receives spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension at age 60.
If a member is broadly the same value of benefits net of tax as if the earnings cap did not apply.
On death granted a deferred pension, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members accrued pension in deferment if a spouses or dependants pension is payable from the main scheme a lump is payable on death before or after retirement.
These pensions are paid throughout the spouses sum of two-thirds of the members accrued lump sum is also payable.
lifetime or until the youngest child reaches age 18, if later.
dIn deferment accrued lump sums are increased in line with statutory increases on pensions in deferment.
This report was approved by the Board on 27 May 2003.
D A Higgs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report
