Directors Remuneration Report This report describes the role and composition of the Remuneration committee the Committee, the Groups remuneration policy and the arrangements currently in place for remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which the financial statements will be approved.
Reward philosophy To ensure corporate success and enhance shareholder value, the Group needs people of the right calibre able to meet and beat the challenges it faces.
The Group's overall policy aims are to: attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels: pay competitive salaries and benefits to all its people.
When pay levels are set, account is taken of the work an employee does, what is paid in other companies for that work and how well the Group's businesses are performing: encourage its people to hold shares in the Company, which the Board believes is an effective way of bringing together their interests with those of shareholders: and focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the Group meet its specific challenges.
The Company promotes greater ownership of its shares by offering employees the opportunity to build up a shareholding through its Save As You Earn and Executive Share Option Schemes.
In addition, the executive directors and certain senior executives, principally the members of the ECGs, are also entitled to receive up to an additional 10% of salary in the form of Ordinary shares in the Company, held in trust for 3 years as part of a deferred annual bonus plan.
Awards of shares are subject to the same targets and thresholds as the annual performance bonuses for these executives.
Non-executive directors remuneration Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for an initial period of two years but subject to six months' notice from either party, which may be renewed for further two year terms thereafter.
The Chairman has been appointed for a period until 31 December 2005 and thereafter until terminated by either party by not less than six months' notice.
However, all directors are subject to re-election at an annual general meeting at least every three years.
The non-executive directors do not have contracts of service and, in the event of early termination for whatever reason, they are not entitled to compensation.
They may not participate in annual bonus arrangements, healthcare arrangements, Company share option schemes or the pension scheme.
The Company repays the reasonable expenses they incur in carrying out their duties as directors.
The Chief Executive and the Committee with the exception of the Chairman jointly determine the Chairmans remuneration.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive jointly determine the other non-executive directors remuneration.
They take independent advice when they consider it necessary to do so and during the year took advice from New Bridge Street Consultants, which is a division of Clifford Chance.
Non-executive directors remuneration for the year to 31 December 2003 is set out in the following table.
Annual Report 2003 27 Directors Remuneration Report continued TOTAL FEES 2003 2002 J. Mercer 79,885 75,000 R. T. Scholes 9,667 36,420 D. Cotterill 29,000 27,333 R. F. Boyes 29,000 21,664 Dr K. G. G. Hopkins 11,917 - M. A. Jones - 11,400 159,469 171,817 Notes Payment in respect of Mr Boyes's service was made to Collingham Associates Limited.
Mr Scholes retired on 16 April 2003 and Mr Jones retired on 17 April 2002.
Dr Hopkins was appointed as a director on and with effect from 1 August 2003.
Executive directors remuneration The Remuneration committee The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Group's framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
It decides the specific recruitment terms, remuneration benefits, employment conditions, pension rights, compensation payments and severance terms for the executive directors and the remuneration framework for other senior executives.
The Committee met four times in the year to 31 December 2003.
In its work, the Committee considers fully the Principles of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice.
During the year, it took professional advice from within and outside the Company, principally from New Bridge Street Consultants and Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
The Board accepted the Committee's recommendations without amendment.
Apart from providing remuneration advice regarding the Board of Directors, New Bridge Street Consulting did no other paid work for the Group.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting also acted as actuary and adviser in relation to some of the Groups pension schemes.
The members of the Committee are the non-executive directors, namely Mr Cotterill, Mr Boyes and Dr Hopkins.
Mr Mercer also sat on the Committee until his retirement on 31 December 2003.
The Board regards all of the non-executive directors as independent.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest in the Company other than as shareholders and the fees paid to them as non-executive directors.
They have no conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships and are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Group's businesses.
The Committee was chaired throughout the year by Mr Cotterill.
In consequence of Mr Cotterills appointment as Chairman of the Company, Mr Boyes became Chairman of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2004.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive may be invited to attend meetings and the Committee consults him on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and appropriate senior executives.
He does not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating to his own remuneration.
Reward policy The Committees policy for executive directors remuneration is to: pay a basic salary which competes with other companies of similar size and complexity.
The Company aims to pay about the market median but may pay more for an outstanding performer or to attract executives of the right calibre: give executives the opportunity to increase their earnings by meeting and outperforming key short-term and long-term measures.
In this way, the Company links executives' rewards directly to the Groups performance and shareholders' interests: 28 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com encourage executives to hold shares in the Company including through the use of share options : and overall, reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the Group's short and long-term performance without paying more than is necessary for achieving this objective.
Elements of remuneration In deciding the executive directors total remuneration package and individual elements of it, the Committee assesses where the Company should be positioned relative to other companies.
It makes appropriate comparisons but treats them with caution.
The Committee aims for an appropriate balance between fixed basic pay and benefits and variable short and long-term rewards.
Variable or at risk pay represents 60% of executive directors' basic salaries.
The main elements of executive directors remuneration are set out in the following table.
Mr van Beijeren and Mr Libeerts salaries were set in Euros at 319,503 in 2003 given their principal work locations are within the Eurozone.
This was equivalent to a salary of 203,775 at a rate of exchange of 1.5679 the reference exchange rate adopted by the Committee in setting remuneration but has been translated for this report at the average exchange rate ruling in 2003.
Part of Mr Libeerts salary is paid to LMC, a management company based in Belgium.
In addition, payments in lieu of employers social security contributions on his Belgian employment of 37,147 36,728 were paid to LMC in the year.
In addition to the above payments, pensions payable to former directors or their dependants was 8,245 8,004.
Basic salary The Committee reviews basic salaries each year taking account of the various factors, elements and policies set out earlier.
Any changes are made with effect from 1 January.
The basic salaries of the executive directors are set out in the table above.
Annual bonus The annual bonus further motivates the executive directors and other senior executives to achieve the Groups key operational and strategic objectives.
The basis of the bonus and the targets to be achieved are reviewed by the Committee annually.
Awards depend on subsidiaries of the Company achieving quantified financial targets.
For 2003, executive directors could earn annual bonus awards worth up to 40% of their basic salary for full attainment of specific and testing profit targets set in advance by the Committee and up to a maximum of 50% if these targets are exceeded by a defined amount.
By Annual Report 2003 29 Directors Remuneration Report continued virtue of their participation in the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme the executive directors are entitled to receive up to a maximum further 10% of salary payable in the form of shares in the Company which are held in trust for a period of three years prior to beneficial ownership vesting in the directors concerned.
Other benefits Executive directors are paid a cash amount instead of a company car, or, in the case of Mr van Beijeren, have the use of a fully expensed car, and are provided with medical insurance.
Savings related share options The executive directors are entitled to join the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme.
The mid-market price on the day of exercise was 258.00p, resulting in a gain of 2,874.
No savings related share options lapsed or were otherwise exercised by directors during the year.
The mid-market price of an Ordinary share on 31 December 2003 was 240.00 pence and the range during the year was 210.00 pence to 284.00 pence.
Mr Mercers options under this scheme were awarded to him during the period when he was an executive director of the Company.
Executive share options The executive directors have been awarded options as follows over the Company's shares in accordance with the rules of the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme.
The options are awarded on a discretionary basis to ensure an appropriate level of incentive and alignment with shareholders objectives.
In addition to these timing restrictions the options may not be exercised until specific corporate performance criteria have been met, namely that a period of three consecutive years has elapsed during which the actual normalised earnings per share of the Company exceeds by at least 6% the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index over the same period and that the actual normalised earnings per share in the third year of the period is no less than in the preceding year.
The Committee believes both criteria taken together present a demanding target for the markets in which the Company operates, which view is borne out by the fact that no options granted since 1997 have, so far, satisfied the criteria.
The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme will expire on 12 April 2005.
The Committee will be undertaking a review during the coming year to determine whether a replacement scheme should be put to shareholders for approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, and what the rules of any such scheme should be.
It will also be undertaking a review of the most appropriate performance criteria to attach to option grants under any successor scheme to take into account best practice at the time and the requirements of the Company.
Mr OConnor exercised options in the year over 5,000 Ordinary shares at a price of 219.00p each.
The mid-market price on the day of exercise was 224.50p, resulting in a gain of 275.
No other directors exercised any share options during the year.
Pension arrangements The British Vita SE & D Pension Fund is a defined benefit pension scheme, which is open to all eligible employees.
It provides pensions and other benefits to members within Inland Revenue limits.
Six directors were members of this scheme during the year.
It provides them with a pension on normal retirement age of 60 equal to 1 40th of pensionable earnings for each completed year of service.
The maximum pension is two thirds of pensionable earnings.
Annual Report 2003 31 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension cap In addition to Inland Revenue limits, the Company imposes an internal pensionable earnings cap.
This cap rises each year by an agreed factor.
In 2003 the pensionable earnings cap was 254,718 250,000 for the Chief Executive and 203,775 200,000 for the other executive directors.
Where the Inland Revenue earnings cap applies, the Company makes alternative provision for pension commitments between the Inland Revenue earnings cap and the interfinal pensionable earnings cap.
Life assurance is provided at four times annual basic salary.
Directors entitlements The following directors had accrued entitlements under the scheme: Accrued pension Increase in Accrued pension Value of net increases 31 December accrued pension 31 December in accrual in the year 2002 in the year 2003 net of contributions D. A. Campbell 133,178 5,010 140,452 61,534 J. K. Maiden 1,823 2,478 4,331 9,743 C. J. O'Connor 13,213 2,113 15,551 17,700 H. J. J. van Beijeren 13,714 2,683 16,630 26,110 F. J. Libeert 8,672 2,884 11,703 31,124 J. Mercer 143,553 864 145,130 22,946 Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
The increase in accrued pension in the year excludes the impact of inflation.
"The following table sets out the transfer value of the directors' accrued benefits under the Scheme calculated in a manner consistent with ""Retirement Benefit Schemes - Transfer Values GN 11 "" published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries."
Mr Mercer retired on 31 December 2003 and his increase in transfer value has been calculated in accordance with the Companies Act Regulations, rather than in accordance with GN 11, and is stated net of his lump sum payment on retirement.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme, not a cash payment by the Company.
The increase in transfer value in the year net of contributions includes the impact of changes in actuarial guidance and other factors beyond the control of the Company.
In addition to their rights under the UK Scheme, Mr Maiden and Mr OConnor benefit from contributions to Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Schemes FURBS in respect of salaries over the Inland Revenue earnings cap and up to the Company pensionable earnings cap.
Contributions paid and payable during the year were as follows: 32 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com 2003 2002 J. K. Maiden 26,767 15,804 C. J. OConnor 41,230 44,213 In addition to his rights under the UK Scheme, Mr van Beijeren is also a member of an insured defined benefit scheme operated by the Company in the Netherlands in respect of his salary over the UK Inland Revenue earnings cap and up to the Company pensionable earnings cap.
In addition, the Company paid the cost of life assurance on his salary over the UK Inland Revenue cap amounting to 7,308 6,650.
The following table sets out his accrued entitlement and transfer values under the Dutch scheme.
Accrued pension 31 December 2002 11,033 Increase in accrued pension in the year 4,066 Accrued pension 31 December 2003 15,099 Transfer value 31 December 2002 121,110 Contributions made by the director 6,371 Increase in transfer value in the year net of contributions 14,362 Transfer value 31 December 2003 141,843 In addition to his rights under the UK Scheme, Mr Libeerts management company, LMC, also received a contribution in lieu of pension on his salary over the UK Inland Revenue earnings cap and up to the Company pensionable earnings cap, together with life assurance over the UK Inland Revenue earnings cap, of 67,811 67,417.
Members of the various schemes may have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in any of the above tables.
Contracts of service and compensation for termination The Company's policy is that the executive directors normally have one-year notice periods although any internal appointments will take existing contractual terms into account.
The Company may offer a longer notice period if it considers that necessary to recruit a new director.
If it offers a notice period of more than one year, it will usually reduce that to one year after the initial period.
All the current executive directors have one-year notice periods, subject to the following.
The contract for Mr Maiden provides for one year's notice subject to certain transitional provisions upon a change in control.
Two years notice will be required until the second anniversary of his appointment, reducing pro-rata thereafter to one year by the third anniversary.
Mr Libeert is a Belgian national, domiciled in Belgium and, prior to his appointment as a director, had been the Managing Director of the Companys Belgian subsidiary, Libeltex NV for a number of years.
The Company has been advised that under Belgian law Mr Libeert's past service must be taken into account when calculating his notice period which cannot be less than two years for an employee of his seniority and length of service.
Accordingly, the service contract for Mr Libeert provides for a notice period of two years.
Mr Libeert left the Company on 29 February 2004 and will receive approximately 0.5m, and the Company will provide two years equivalent pension and employers social security contributions, in accordance with his contractual arrangements.
If a director's service contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation it considers is fair and reasonable in each circumstance and the compensation that may be paid.
It will take into account the best practice provisions of the Combined Code Annual Report 2003 33 Directors Remuneration Report continued and will take legal advice on the Companys liability to pay compensation and the amount of compensation in each case.
Performance graph The graph below shows the Companys TSR total shareholder return compared to the FTSE All Share Index TSR over the last five years.
TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Given its size and market sector, the Company believes this to be the most appropriate basis for comparison as a relevant equity index of which it is a member.
From the end of the financial year until 1 March 2004 there have been no changes in the above interests.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf R. F. BOYES These sections have been audited.
Chairman - Remuneration committee 1 March 2004 34 For more information on British Vita visit www.
