PAGE 64 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code which applied to the year under review and the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 that apply to the Company for the first time this year.
During the year under review, the members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee were Mr C J C Levison Chairman, Mr G HowardSpink and Mr D B Murrell, who were all independent non-executive directors.
Mr C N Wright and Mr R N L Huntingford do not sit on the Committee but do provide advice to the Committee on Directors remuneration other than their own.
Following a review by the Board of the Higgs Review on the effectiveness of non-executive directors and the New Combined Code, Mr Levison resigned from the Committee on 1st October 2003.
Mr D B Murrell was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 1st October 2003.
As stated in the Corporate Governance Report, the Boards Nominations Committee is actively seeking an additional independent non-executive director who will be appointed to the Board and the Committee as soon as a suitable candidate is found.
The Committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, a rm of independent remuneration consultants, to assist it in its deliberations.
The rm provides general advice on remuneration, including provision of comparative information in respect of Directors remuneration and advice on the operation of the Groups long term incentive plans introduced during the year.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP do not provide any other services to the Company.
This report will be put to an advisory vote of the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday 3rd February 2004.
The exceptional LTIP award for Mr R N L Huntingford detailed below will also be put to a shareholders vote.
Remuneration policy The Committee, in forming its policy on remuneration, has given due consideration to the provisions of the Code, to the needs of the Group and the shareholders.
The ongoing policy of the Committee is to provide a competitive remuneration package to enable it to attract, retain and motivate executives of the calibre and experience required and the need to cost effectively incentivise executives to deliver long term shareholder value.
It is the aim of the Committee to reward Directors on a basis which is linked to a significant extent to the performance of the Group and to the business units for which they are specically responsible, as well as on the broader principle that their remuneration should be competitive with the senior management of comparable companies operating in similar areas to the Group.
The Groups policy is to incentivise executives to deliver long term shareholder value, by outperforming their peers in similar sized media groups, through performance related short and long term incentive schemes which, together with their base salary, can potentially bring their total remuneration into the upper quartile of this peer group.
The Committee sets performance criteria for both short and long term incentive schemes, based on the financial targets set during the Groups budgeting and forecasting process, taking into account the strategic aims of the Group as well as the interests of shareholders.
The Committee determines whether performance measures and targets, for both the long term and short term performance related incentive schemes, have been met, based on relevant financial information and advice from its advisors and, where necessary, after consultation with the Companys auditors.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting we will be asking shareholders to approve an exceptional award to the Group Chief Executive.
Due to his leadership the Group delivered outstanding results in 2003 and it is imperative that the Group retains his services.
In the Committees view the current arrangements in place to incentivise and retain the Group Chief Executive are insufficient and in particular the existing options and super performance bonus awards made in 1999 will not sufciently reward him for exceptional performance.
Therefore, to do this we ask shareholders to approve the award which is set out in detail in the appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
In recognition of this award, subject to shareholder approval, the Group Chief Executive will waive his entitlement to the super performance bonus as described on page 72.
In summary, the Committee has, following extensive consultation with major institutional investors, made an award over 400,000 and 240,000 ordinary shares of 2p each.
Two-thirds of the cash and shares would vest on 31st December 2005 and the remaining third of the cash and shares a year later, in both cases the amount released will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
The vesting of the award will depend on the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to a similar group of peer companies as is currently used in the Chrysalis Group plc 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Performance will be measured over the period from 7th May 1999 to 31st August 2005.
No part of the award will vest unless the Company is ranked in at least the median position among its peer group at which point 25% of the award would vest.
Full vesting will require upper quartile performance.
In addition, no portion of the award will vest unless the Companys TSR has between 1st September 2003 and 31st August 2005 exceeded 10% per annum.
Further, no more than half of the Award can vest unless TSR exceeds 12.5% per annum, and no more than three-quarters can vest unless TSR exceeds 15% per annum.
There will be no retesting of any of these conditions.
On 4th February 2003 the Board adopted shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are expected to build up a personal shareholding of Chrysalis Group PLC ordinary shares by the acquisition of shares and the retention of shares acquired via the Companys share based incentive plans of an amount equal to once times annual salary within five years of adoption of the guidelines or of appointment if later.
The remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board, taking into account the limit set in the Articles of Association.
PAGE 65 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration The remuneration for Executive Directors comprises four elements: base salary: short term incentive plans: long term incentive schemes including share options schemes: and post retirement and other benets.
Details of each element is explained below.
Base salaries The policy in respect of base salary is to pay a fair and reasonable base salary for the Executives role, taking into consideration comparative salaries for similar roles in similar business sectors.
Base salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, which includes a review of the performance of the individual and, where appropriate, of the trading division for which they are responsible and of the Group as a whole.
Short term incentive plans Executive Directors who served during the year under review participate in annual performance related bonus arrangements payable in cash or shares.
These have been individually tailored to incentivise each Director to enhance the profitability of the division or business for which they are responsible or are based on the profitability of the Group as a whole.
No benets under any of the short term bonus arrangements are pensionable.
Whilst the overall financial results of the Group did not reach the challenging internal targets set at the begining of the year ended 31st August 2003, the Committee believed that the operating performance of the Group, including the progress against specic corporate objectives, made it appropriate to award discretionary bonuses to Mr C N Wright, Mr R N L Huntingford and Mr N R A Buttereld in recognition of their contribution to the Groups best ever results.
These bonuses are substantially less than those awarded in the previous year.
Both Mr Wright and Mr Huntingford will be investing 50% of the net amount of their discretionary bonus, the maximum amount allowable under the rules, in the shares of the Company in accordance with the Chrysalis Group PLC 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Executive Directors have the opportunity for the achievement of on target performance to earn a bonus of between 25% to 50% of their base salary.
A maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary is possible for significant over-achievement of the dened targets.
The targets are based upon the profits before tax of either the Group, the division, or the individual business unit for which they are responsible.
In addition, Mr C N Wright also has a discretionary performance related bonus capped at 75,000.
The total bonus payable to Mr Wright in any one year is capped at 100% of salary.
Long term incentive schemes During the year, the Company introduced the Chrysalis Group PLC 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2003 Scheme and the Chrysalis Group PLC 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, which were approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 4th February 2003.
The LTIP comprises two types of equity based incentive schemes allowing for the award of Performance Shares and Matching Shares.
A Sharesave Scheme also operates to give UK employees the opportunity to have a financial stake in the Company, in which the Executive Directors are entitled to participate.
As previously stated, the Committee has concluded that, due to the diverse nature of the Groups businesses, it is best to incentivise certain Executive Directors for the long term by individual non-equity based schemes designed to maximise the profitability or capital value of the Group or the division for which they are responsible.
The Committees policy is to grant awards on an annual basis and the newly adopted long term incentive arrangements enable the Committee to execute this policy.
Share options The maximum value of options granted to an individual under the 2003 Scheme is limited to 150% of salary per annum.
However, the Committee does not intend to grant in excess of 100% of salary per annum to any individual.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee can grant options with a value of up to 300% of salary per annum.
Options granted under the 2003 Scheme will only be exercisable if the performance condition is met.
The performance condition is based on Headline Earnings Per Share as dened by the Institution of Investment Management and Research EPS.
For any options to become exercisable, the growth in the Companys EPS must exceed ination by at least 20% per annum compound.
At this level of growth, 40% of the options will become exercisable.
For all of the options to become exercisable, growth in EPS must exceed ination by at least 30% per annum compound.
There will be straight-line vesting of options between 20% and 30%.
The performance of the Company will initially be measured over three financial years, measuring from the base financial year, being the year ended immediately prior to the grant.
If the target has not been met at the end of this period, it can be re-tested for a further two years from a xed base.
An EPS condition was chosen as in the Committees opinion EPS requires substantial improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance before the options may be exercised.
The Committee will regularly review the performance conditions for future option grants, but future conditions must be considered by the Committee to be no less challenging in the circumstances than the initial condition.
The condition may be varied in certain circumstances following the grant of an option to take account of technical changes so as to achieve its original purpose.
PAGE 66 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration LTIP Performance Share Awards are conditional awards of shares.
The maximum value of Performance Share Awards that can be awarded to an individual under the LTIP is limited to 50% of salary per annum.
However, the Committee does not intend to award in excess of 37.5% of salary per annum to any individual.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee can make an award with a value of up to 100% of salary per annum.
Matching Share Awards are conditional awards of shares which are linked to the investment by the Executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
An Executive may invest up to 50% of any annual bonus paid and receive a Matching Share Award of up to two and a half shares for every one purchased.
Performance Share Awards will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its grant and only then to the extent that a specified performance condition is satisfied and the individual remains employed.
Matching Share Awards become exercisable on the same basis but, in addition, Matching Share Awards will only become exercisable to the extent that the related investment shares have not been sold by the Executive.
Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards may never be exercised later than 10 years from grant or such earlier date as the Committee may specify at the time of the grant.
The performance condition of the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards is based upon the performance of the Company in terms of TSR compared to a peer group of media and publishing companies over a three year period.
The extent to which Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards vest is as follows: Matching Share Award Matching Performance Share Award TSR Performance Ranking Ratio on a pre-tax basis Vesting Percentage Below Median 00% Median 1:1 25% Upper Quartile 2.5:1 100% Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro rata between1:1 and 2.5:1 Pro rata between 25% and 100% The performance period will begin on the first day of the financial year in which the grant is made and end three years later.
There is no opportunity to retest the performance condition if it is not met after the three year performance period.
TSR will be averaged over the six month periods, beginning three months prior to the beginning and end of the performance period.
The Committee chose the performance condition because it aligns the interests of Executives with shareholders by requiring superior TSR performance compared to similar companies.
The performance condition will be reviewed at the end of the three year performance period by the Committee in conjunction with its advisors.
The Committee will regularly review the performance conditions for future awards, but future conditions must be considered by the Committee to be no less challenging in the circumstances than the initial condition.
The condition may be varied in certain circumstances following the grant of an award to take account of technical changes so as to achieve its original purpose.
Service contracts The Committee reviews and agrees Directors service agreements.
The Committee agrees with the recommendation contained in the Code that there is a strong case for setting notice or contract periods at, or reducing them to, 12 months or less.
The Committee has had and will continue to have regard to these recommendations but is conscious of the need to secure the services of key executives for the benefit of the Company and the shareholders which may, on occasions, necessitate contracts for longer periods.
All of the Executive Directors service agreements can also be terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice.
Name Commencement Expiry dates C N Wright 01 12 2000 terminable on 12 months rolling notice N R A Buttereld 01 07 1999 terminable on 12 months rolling notice G Howard Spink 01 02 2003 01 02 2004 R N L Huntingford 05 05 1999 terminable on 12 months rolling notice P A Lassman 01 09 1999 terminable on 12 months rolling notice C J C Levison 01 09 2003 01 09 2004 G H Martin 01 09 2003 01 09 2004 D B Murrell 15 07 2003 15 07 2004 P S Riley 01 06 1999 terminable on 12 months rolling notice Non-Executive Directors are not employed under contracts of service but are appointed for terms of 12 months pursuant to letters of engagement which are renewable for further terms of 12 months.
PAGE 67 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration Compensation for early termination The arrangements for termination of the Senior Executives contracts are decided by the Committee following consultation with the Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
As stated above, in the majority of cases, service agreements may be terminated by the Company for any reason upon a payment not exceeding 12 months salary, benets and bonuses subject to mitigation by the Executive.
TSR The graph below shows Chrysaliss TSR relative to the FTSE Mid 250 Index.
The FTSE Mid 250 was chosen as the Company comparative group in order to illustrate the Companys TSR performance against a broad equity market index of the UKs leading companies.
Chrysalis TSR Vs FTSE 250 TSR 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 Chrysalis FTSE 250 TSR For information we have included below a graph showing the Companys performance against the FTSE All Share Media and Entertainment Sector to illustrate the Companys TSR performance against the sector in which the Company operates.
Chrysalis TSR Vs FTSE Media & Entertainment sector TSR 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Chrysalis FTSE Media & Entertainment sector TSR The above two graphs assume that 100 was invested in Chrysalis shares on 31st August 1998 and therefore rebases the FTSE 250 and FTSE Media & Entertainment sector indices at that date.
Aug 98 Aug 98 Dec 98 Apr 99 Aug 99 Aug 99 Dec 99 Apr 00 Aug 00 Aug 00 Dec 00 Apr 01 Aug 01 Aug 01 Dec 01 Apr 02 Aug 02 Aug 02 Dec 02 Apr 03 Aug 03 Aug 03 PAGE 68 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration With the exception of the details of the Pension scheme on pages 72 and 73, the following section of this report has been audited.
Directors remuneration The following table and notes are intended to summarise the value of all of the various elements of remuneration earned by each Director during the year under review, excluding contributions to retirement benefit schemes.
Details of Directors share options are set out on page 69.
Notes i Benets comprise company cars, health care insurance and life assurance.
ii Discretionary bonus see page 65. iii The payment of a long term incentive for the three year period ending 31st August 2002. iv An accumulated accounting provision exists in respect of his long term incentive scheme of 867,000 2002: 867,000. v Sir George Martin also received remuneration of 35,000 2002: 35,000 and benets of 9,000 2002: 15,000 from a joint venture company for services as Chairman.
PAGE 69 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration Directors interests in share options Share options have been granted to certain Executive Directors in accordance with the rules of the Chrysalis Group PLC 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme the 1994 Scheme approved by shareholders on 21st February 1994 and or the 2003 Scheme.
Further particulars of the schemes are given in note 33 to the accounts.
Following the adoption of the 2003 Scheme on 4th February 2003, no further grants have been or will be made under the 1994 Scheme.
The Sharesave options granted are in accordance with the rules of the Chrysalis Sharesave Scheme approved by shareholders on 2nd February 2001.
Further particulars of the Sharesave scheme are given in note 33 to the accounts.
The following table shows details of the options for ordinary shares of 2 pence each held by Directors under the 1994 Scheme, the 2003 Scheme and the Sharesave Scheme.
No options were exercised during the current or preceding year.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
For options granted in both August and November 2003 under the 2003 Scheme, exercise will be dependent on the EPS performance condition described on page 65.
Options will become exercisable as follows: Growth in EPS in excess of ination Vesting percentage 20% per annum 40% 30% per annum 100% Between 20% and 30% per annum Pro rata between 40% and 100% The performance of the Company will be measured over three financial years from the year ended immediately prior to the grant.
If the target is not met over this period it can be re-tested for a further two years from a xed base.
Options granted under the 1994 Scheme will only be exercisable if the performance condition is met.
The Committee has set individual performance conditions for the grant of options under the 1994 Scheme, details of which are shown below.
C N Wright These options are only exercisable if the performance criteria based on the achievement of pre-agreed levels of TSR are met.
TSR is the aggregate of the increase or decrease in the market value of a 2 pence ordinary share during the period, together with the value arising from the notional reinvestment of dividends declared during the period in further Chrysalis shares.
If the performance criteria is not met by the end of the period, the option remains capable of exercise providing that TSR performance targets are met, such TSR targets shall be deemed to be increased by 10% in each successive financial year.
The Committee determined on 5th February 2003, following the calculation of the TSR of the Company that 20% of the options were deemed to have vested and that Mr Wright is now entitled to exercise his option over 73,333 Chrysalis ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
R N L Huntingford These options are only exercisable if the performance criteria based on the achievement of pre-agreed levels of TSR are met.
The options are only exercisable on a graduating scale enabling 41.66% of the options to be exercised if TSR is between 7.5% and 8.5% per annum, rising to 100% of the options if TSR is over 13%.
The Committee determined on 5th February 2003, following the calculation of the TSR of the Company, that 58.33% of the options were deemed to have vested and that Mr Huntingford is now entitled to exercise his option over 437,475 Chrysalis ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
N R A Buttereld The exercise of these options was originally subject to performance criteria based on earnings per share.
In 2000 the committee set new performance criteria based on TSR.
The options are only exercisable on a graduating scale enabling 25%% of the options to be exercised if TSR is between 7.5% and 8.5% per annum, rising to 100% of the options if TSR is 20% or more.
Lisa J Gordon resigned 31st December 2002 100,000 of these options are only exercisable if the performance criteria based on the achievement of pre-agreed levels of TSR are met.
The options are only exercisable on a graduating scale enabling 25% of the options to be exercisable if TSR is between 7.5% and 8.5% per annum, rising to 100% of the options if TSR is 20% or more.
The Committee determined that Lisa will be allowed 12 months from her date of resignation to exercise her options, which will remain subject to the performance criteria.
As at the date of this report, none of these options have vested.
PAGE 71 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration Directors interests in the LTIP The table below shows the Directors interests in Performance Shares of the Companys Ordinary Shares of 2 pence each.
As stated on page 66 the performance condition applying to the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards is based upon the performance of the Company in terms of TSR compared to a peer group.
The peer group for the August 2003 awards comprise 12 media and publishing companies excluding the Company over a three year period.
These are: Bloomsbury Publishing plc Capital Radio plc Daily Mail and General Trust plc EMAP plc EMI Group plc GWR Group plc The Quarto Group inc.
Sanctuary Group plc Scottish Radio Holdings plc SMG plc The Television Corporation plc Wireless Group plc The extent to which the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards will vest is as follows: Matching Share Awards Matching Performance Share Awards TSR Performance Ranking Ratio on a pre-tax basis Vesting Percentage Below Median 00% Median 1:1 25% Upper Quartile 2.5:1 100% Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro rata between1:1 and 2.5:1 Pro rata between 25% and 100% The performance period will begin on the first day of the financial year in which the grant is made and end three years later, there is no opportunity to retest the performance condition.
PAGE 72 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration Non Equity Based LTIPs Due to the diverse nature of the Groups businesses, certain Executive Directors have individual LTIP schemes of which they are the only member which were specically designed to recruit or retain the Director in unusual circumstances.
R N L Huntingford Mr Huntingford is entitled to a super performance bonus equal to the growth in the value of between 125,000 and 500,000 Chrysalis ordinary shares of 2 pence each depending on performance targets.
The total bonus payable under the super performance bonus is capped at 1.25 million.
The super performance bonus is subject to performance criteria based on TSR, payable on a graduating scale enabling 25% of the bonus to be paid if TSR is between 14% and 15%, and 100% of the bonus to be payable if TSR is 20% or over.
If the performance criteria is not met by the end of the period, the bonus remains capable of payment providing that TSR performance targets are met, such TSR targets shall be deemed to be increased by 10% in each successive financial year.
Mr Huntingford, subject to approval of the exceptional award at the Annual General Meeting, will waive his entitlement to this bonus.
This is described in more detail on page 64 and in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
P S Riley Mr Riley is entitled to receive 0.145% of the value of the Groups Radio division, adjusted for the amount of any investment in the division since 1st September 1999, together with a bonus equivalent to 0.75% of the excess value of the Chrysalis Radio division over and above an agreed base valuation to be adjusted for any additional funding and a return on the opening value.
The bonus is payable at Mr Rileys request after the announcement of either the Groups interim or final results but in any event no later than 31st August 2009.
The maximum value of the Chrysalis Radio division for the purpose of this bonus is 300 million as at 31st August 2002, rising to 400 million at 31st August 2004.
P A Lassman On 24th September 2003 the Committee made a cash based long term incentive award to Mr Lassman under an arrangement in which he is the sole participant.
In the Committees opinion the award is necessary to retain and motivate Mr Lassman in view of his unique position within the Lasgo Chrysalis business.
Therefore, the award was made relying on the exemption in chapter 13:13A of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
Mr Lassman is entitled to a cash bonus with a maximum value equal to 100% of his salary for the year ending 31st August 2006.
Payment of the bonus will be calculated by reference to the aggregated results for the three years to 31st August 2006 of Lasgo Chrysalis Limited.
25% of the award will be payable upon achieving target on a sliding scale up to 100% of the award for significant over achievement of the target.
The award will become payable on completion of the audited accounts for the year ending 31st August 2006.
No payment under this long term incentive scheme is pensionable.
Pension scheme The Executive Directors are entitled to become members of the Senior Executive Sections, of the Chrysalis Group PLC Retirement Benets Scheme the Scheme.
Each member contributes 5% of their pensionable salary to the Scheme.
Members of the dened benefit section are entitled to a pension at the date of retirement based on final pensionable salary and years of completed service.
Pension is accrued at a rate of one fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
Members of the dened contribution section are entitled to benets which are purchased from their individual fund, established under the Scheme, into which the members contributions and the employers contribution are invested.
The policy for Executive Directors is to provide pension benets at a normal retirement age of 60.
Mr N R A Buttereld, Mr P S Riley and Lisa J Gordon resigned 31st December 2002 are or were members of the dened contribution section of the Scheme and Mr R N L Huntingford is a member of the dened benefit section of the Scheme.
Mr C N Wright is the only member of the Culture Vulture Pension Fund, a small self-administered scheme.
Both Mr C N Wright and the Company contribute to the Culture Vulture Pension Fund on the same terms as they would have contributed to the Scheme.
Mr P A Lassman has remained a member of the pension scheme established by Lasgo Chrysalis Limited prior to the Group acquiring its interest in Lasgo.
The Lasgo Chrysalis scheme is a dened contribution scheme.
Mr P A Lassman does not contribute to the scheme.
Under the terms of both the Scheme and the Culture Vulture pension scheme, pensionable salaries exclude bonuses and are subject to a self-imposed cap for the year under review of 282,600 in respect of Mr C N Wright and 170,400 in all other cases.
Mr P S Riley and Lisa J Gordon resigned 31st December 2002 are or were subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap enforceable at the time.
There are no arrangements for pensions in excess of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
PAGE 73 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration The dened benefit section of the Scheme provides for a spouses dependants pension of two-thirds of the prospective pension on death in service.
On death after retirement, the Scheme provides for a spouses dependants pension of 50% of the members pension before exchange of pension for a cash sum, if any.
All pensions accrued whilst a member of the senior executive section of the dened benefit section of the Scheme increase in payment at a rate of 5% per annum compound, the balance, if any, is subject to statutory increases.
The application of increases is subject to pensions remaining within Inland Revenue limits.
Members of the dened benets section may retire early from service with the consent of the Company.
Any pension is subject to reduction to reect payment from an earlier age on a basis that is cost neutral to the Scheme and as recommended by the Scheme actuary.
Members of the dened contribution section of the Scheme are entitled to a spouses dependants pension of one-third of pensionable salary on death in service, the pension increasing at the rate of 5% per annum compound, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
On death after retirement, benets are secured by the accumulated fund on the open annuity market.
The level of spouses dependants benefit to be provided is selected by the member, subject to the provision of a spouses pension being provided to satisfy the regulations for the Scheme being contracted out.
The level of increases on benets is selected by the member, although any pension secured by funds relating to contributions paid from April 1997 are increased by the rate of 5% per annum, or the rate of increase in the Retail Prices Index if less.
Members of the dened contribution section may retire early from service with the consent of the Company, with benets being secured as described above based on the accumulated fund at the time of retirement.
No discretionary benets are provided or taken account of in assessing transfer values from either the dened contribution section or the dened benefit section of the Scheme.
Money Purchase Scheme Company contributions 2003 2002 Total Total Director Mr C N Wright 64,998 64,032 Mr N R A Buttereld 39,192 38,502 Lisa J Gordon 4,212 5,329 Mr P A Lassman 25,773 26,260 Mr P S Riley 17,496 17,172 151,671 151,295 Final salary scheme Accrued Accrued Increase in Transfer pension pension accrued value of as at 31st as at 31st pension increase in August August over the accrued 2002 2003 year pension R N L Huntingford 59,532 65,100 4,555 30,762 after discounting the effect of ination excluding the amount attributable to the members own contributions PAGE 74 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the board on remuneration The movement in transfer values during the year shown below are based on the methodologies prescribed by the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Transfer value as at 31st Transfer value as at 31st Directors contributions August 2002 of accrued August 2003 of accrued paid 1st September Increase in accrued Difference in transfer pension as at 31st August pension as at 31st August 2002 to 31st August pension over the year values less allowance for Director 2002 2003 2003 ignoring price ination Directors contributions R N L Huntingford 491,351 560,374 8,520 5,568 60,503 No allowance has been made for price ination as per the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Approved by and signed on behalf of the Board D B Murrell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17th December 2003 Registered ofce: The Chrysalis Building Bramley Road London W10 6SP
