Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee and advisers Performance-related bonus scheme In considering levels of remuneration, the Remuneration Mike Norris and Tony Conophy participate in annual Committee has received advice from the Group Human performance-related bonus schemes that are linked to the Resources Director, Ernst & Young and Towers Perrin.
overall performance of the Group and the achievement of Towers Perrin also provides additional advice to the Groups personal objectives agreed with them for the year by the management on general remuneration issues from time to time.
Chairman, and approved by the Committee.
Performance The Committee takes into account comparative practice in both conditions are relevant, challenging and designed to enhance the European technology sector and FTSE mid-250 companies.
For 2003, the maximum levels of bonus were 50% of base salary and Mr Norris earned 157,700 Remuneration policy 2002: 148,125 and Mr Conophy 91,000 2002: 91,875.
The Committee makes recommendations and determines remuneration policy on the Boards behalf.
No Director is Share options involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In implementing The Executive Directors are awarded executive share options its policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the under the Companys share option schemes.
The majority are principles of the Code with regard to Directors remuneration, subject to certain performance conditions which are challenging and is satisfied that it has complied with best practice provisions and reflect the Groups objectives.
The details of the various in this matter.
In particular, the following objectives have been performance conditions relating to grants are set out in the notes addressed: to the table of Directors interests in share options on page 31.
These conditions are designed to produce significant and to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the sustained improvements in the Groups underlying financial quality required to run the Company successfully: performance.
Should the conditions not be met, options to reward Executive Directors through remuneration will lapse.
The actual award is dependent upon individual arrangements that are competitive but not excessive: performance assessed against agreed personal targets and to provide Executive Directors with an incentive for the grants are normally limited to a maximum of 1.25 times of an development and performance of the Group in the best individuals base salary.
The current performance measure used interests of shareholders: is earnings per share EPS on an adjusted and fully diluted to ensure that a significant proportion of Executive Directors basis.
The basis for measurement has been developed from remuneration is structured such that rewards are linked to earlier measures of basic EPS and fully diluted EPS.
Pension The Board as a whole determines fees for Non-Executive Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Directors, which reflect the time commitment and responsibilities Computacenter Pension Scheme, a defined contribution salary of their roles.
The Committee is responsible for determining the sacrifice scheme available to all employees under which a appropriate policy for rewarding the Groups Executive Directors maximum annual Company contribution of 3,500 per employee and senior management.
The policy is designed to ensure that a is payable.
The maximum Company contribution is automatically significant proportion of the total remuneration is dependent reviewed each July in line with the average increase in national upon performance and aligns the interests of executives and earnings.
The Scheme also allows employees to make additional shareholders.
salary sacrifices, which the Company may contribute to the Scheme on their behalf.
The amounts of such salary sacrifices This is achieved through a combination of fixed and variable are shown as Company contributions in excess of the 3,500 payments, benefits and share option plans.
limit in the table of Directors remuneration.
Mike Norris, Tony Conophy and Peter Ogden participate in the Scheme.
Basic salary and benefits In seeking to ensure that the basic salary and benefits for each Notice periods Executive Director are appropriate and competitive, relevant Executive Directors employment contracts are subject to a external market data, as well as pay and conditions in the rolling notice period of a maximum of 12 months.
No contractual Group generally, are taken into consideration.
The Chairman arrangements are in place that guarantee additional payments makes recommendations to the Committee in respect of the upon termination of employment by the Company.
The two other Executive Directors based upon this information, Committee is satisfied that the contractual arrangements for together with an assessment of their individual performance Executive Directors comply with the Code.
against specific financial and non-financial goals, and the performance of the Group as a whole.
Cliff Preddy, as Committee Chairman, is responsible for an equivalent process in respect of Ron Sandlers remuneration.
28 Computacenter plc Total Shareholder Return Performance The performance of the Company over the last five financial years in relation to other relevant UK-quoted shares is shown in the performance graphs below.
Computacenters shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and the Committee has deemed the FTSE Software & Computer Services share index as the most appropriate comparator against which to assess total shareholder return performance.
Computacenter versus FTSE Software & Computer Computacenter relative to FTSE Software & Computer Services sector Services sector Key Computacenter TSR Sector Both indices are rebased to 100 at 31 December 1998.
Directors remuneration The Directors remuneration and Directors interests in share options tables below, and their associated notes, are subject to audit.
The term of his appointment will be until the close of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007.
2 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Services Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme.
3 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options exercisable from 25 April 2003 are exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Computacenter Groups earnings per share is at least 5% above the RPI for the three-year period commencing 1 January 2000.
4 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme, which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Computacenter Group.
5 Exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Computacenter Groups fully diluted earnings per share, compared to the base year of 2000, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.
6 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average compound growth in the Computacenter Groups fully diluted earnings per share, compared to the base year of 2000, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2003, 2004 or 2005 respectively.
7 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional post investment in the Biomni joint venture fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2001, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2004, 2005 or 2006 respectively.
8 Exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional post investment in the Biomni joint venture fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2001, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2004, 2005 or 2006 respectively.
9 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional post investment in the Biomni joint venture fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2002, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2005, 2006 or 2007 respectively.
11 Gains made on exercise of options during the year by Directors were: Last date Exercise price Total exercise Market value Gain on Date of exercise for exercise No.
The highest price during the year was 485.75p and the lowest was 222.5p.
AJ Pottinger Secretary 15 March 2004 Computacenter plc 31
