Remuneration committee report This Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, outlines the membership and workings of the Remuneration Committee the Committee and provides an explanation of the various elements of the Companys remuneration policy together with details of Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 30th September 2003.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Regulations require the Auditors to report to shareholders on the information contained in the descriptions of the Companys Long Term Incentive Arrangements and Sharesave Scheme and in Tables 1, 2 and 3 in this Report the auditable parts and to state whether, in their opinion, these parts of the Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the year with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Committees recommendations during the period from 1st October 2002 to the date of this Report regarding Directors remuneration have been accepted by the Board without amendment.
Membership The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors and has been chaired throughout the year by J R K Emly.
Other members of the Committee who served during the year were N W Benson who retired on 22nd January 2003, P J Manser and A W MacDonald.
The Committee met five times during the year ended 30th September 2003 to consider the employment terms and remuneration of executive Directors.
Proposals in respect of matters relating to Directors remuneration are submitted to the Board for approval.
No Director has any involvement in decisions regarding his own remuneration.
Policy The key policy objective of the Committee is to secure and retain high calibre executive Directors with the skills, experience and motivation necessary to direct and manage the affairs of the Company so as to maximise shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
The Committee aims to align its remuneration policies with the Companys medium and long term strategy.
This is achieved by a combination of: - a basic salary package, which recognises the responsibilities of individual Directors and reflects salary and benefit levels of comparable positions in the real estate sector: - an Annual Bonus Scheme, which provides rewards which reflect the performance of the Company and the contribution of individual Directors in a particular year: - long term incentives which allow executives to participate in increases in shareholder value delivered over time by the Company: - a pension contribution, which funds retirement benefits.
In determining the components of total remuneration, the Committee seeks to incentivise Directors, placing emphasis on rewards for performance and delivery of shareholder value and recognises that under-performance should not be rewarded.
Accordingly, the performance-related elements of annual bonus and long term incentives constitute a substantial proportion of the overall remuneration package.
New Bridge Street Consultants have provided independent external advice throughout the year to assist the Committee in formulating its recommendations to the Board to implement these remuneration policies.
New Bridge Street Consultants were appointed by the Committee and only provide advice to the Company in respect of Directors remuneration.
Terms of Employment The executive Directors are employed under service contracts terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months notice.
In the case of J S Lane and B Bickell a maximum of 12 months salary and benefits would be payable by the Company in the event of termination without notice although the Board would seek to reduce the amount payable by enforcing a Directors duty to mitigate his loss.
In the case of S J Quayle and T J C Welton, their contracts can be terminated by the Company paying a sum equal to their basic salaries.
The Company has no other financial obligations in the event of early termination of an executive Directors contract.
Executive Directors are allowed to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the executive where the appointment is unrelated to the Companys business.
The terms of appointment of non-executive Directors are documented in letters of appointment between the Company and the Director.
Their term of appointment does not extend beyond the date on which they are next subject to re-election by shareholders.
In November 2003 up-dated letters of appointment were completed for each non-executive Director other than the Chairman.
Fees payable to non-executive Directors are determined and reviewed periodically by the Board, having taken advice from New Bridge Street Consultants.
Page 25 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Remuneration committee report continued Salaries and Benefits The Committees policy is to broadly align salaries with market medians.
The salary for each executive Director is reviewed annually in November against market information provided by the Committees independent advisor and taking into account the individuals performance and experience in their role.
The principal benefits provided to executive Directors include a fully expensed car, life assurance including widows pension and permanent health insurance.
The Company makes a pension contribution of 25% of basic salary in respect of each executive Director.
Beyond this the Company has no further obligation in respect of funding Directors pensions.
Annual Bonus Scheme The Company operates an Annual Bonus scheme.
Under this Scheme, executive Directors and staff may receive a bonus based on the achievement of a range of challenging Company and personal performance targets set by the Committee at the outset of each financial year.
Unless there are exceptional circumstances, annual bonuses will not exceed 100% of basic salary.
Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
A participant may elect to receive all or part of any bonus in the form of Ordinary Shares or cash.
The value of the bonus is increased by 25% for that part taken in shares rather than cash.
Shares will be awarded under a Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, which allows participants to exercise their right to entitlement after a minimum period of two years and no later than seven years after the date of the award.
Long Term Incentive Arrangements audited Long term incentives are provided by the grant of options at nil consideration over the Companys Ordinary Shares.
Under the terms of the Discretionary Share Option Scheme approved by shareholders in 2001, options granted are subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions before they vest and become exercisable.
In order to align the long term interests of shareholders and executives, performance is measured in terms of growth in net assets per ordinary share, prior to distributions.
The Companys performance over an initial three year period is compared to that of a Peer Group of quoted real estate companies selected by the Committee.
The relevant performance period will commence on the first day of the financial year in which the options are granted.
The following performance targets will be applied: Proportion of options Net Asset Value Performance exercisable Upper quartile 100% Median 30% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 30% and 100% Below median Nil If the performance target is not met in full after three years, it will be retested at the end of the fourth and fifth financial years from the original base date and, to the extent the target has not been met by the end of the fifth year, the relevant option will lapse.
The Committee considers the retesting of performance conditions is appropriate, since it reflects the long term nature of the Companys business and vesting only takes place if challenging performance targets are met.
However, in the light of evolving corporate governance practice, the Committee will be consulting with the Companys major institutional shareholders to seek their views as to whether the re-testing provisions approved in 2001 are still appropriate.
These performance conditions are designed to motivate and incentivise management to perform at the highest level with no options exercisable for below median performance.
The Committee has selected a Peer Group of comparable listed real estate companies in respect of options granted since 2001.
The Peer Group currently comprises: Benchmark Group PLC Great Portland Estates plc Brixton PLC Helical Bar plc Capital & Regional plc Peel Holdings p. l. c. Daejan Holdings PLC Pillar Property PLC Derwent Valley Holdings PLC Minerva plc Freeport plc Quintain Estates and Development PLC The Committee considers these 12 companies provide a Peer Group of adequate size and composition to provide a meaningful comparator against which to assess the Companys performance.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the market value of shares subject to options granted to a participant in any financial year will not exceed three times their basic salary at the date of grant.
In the year ended 30th September 2003, no Director received options over more than twice their basic salary.
The Committee expects to make grants of share options annually, following the preliminary announcement of annual results, usually in early December.
A Peer Group will be established at the time of each grant which will be of sufficient size and composition to provide a genuine and representative comparator group.
Calculations of performance will be reviewed by the Companys auditors prior to the vesting of any options.
Page 26 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Remuneration committee report continued Sharesave Scheme audited The Company also operates an Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme for all of the Companys employees, including executive Directors, subject to a qualifying service period.
The Scheme allows employees to save each month with a building society over a three, five or seven year period up to a maximum of 250 per month.
At the end of the period employees may use their savings, plus a tax free bonus, to buy Ordinary Shares in the Company at a 20% discount to the market price prevailing shortly before they commenced saving.
An offer of new savings contracts was made in March 2003.
2003 8 25 C R Plummer - 8 158 179 Review of Salaries and Fees in November 2003 Executive Directors basic salaries were revised with effect from 1 December 2003 to the following levels: 000 J S Lane 320 B Bickell 225 S J Quayle 190 T J C Welton 175 In addition, fees payable to non-executive Directors other than the Chairman were increased to 32,500 per annum with effect from 1st December 2003.
Page 27 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Remuneration committee report continued Table 2 - Share Options audited Directors share options during the year ended 30th September 2003 granted under the Companys 1987 Employee Share Option Scheme now closed, the unapproved 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme now closed, the 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme and Sharesave Scheme were as follows: Date Exercise Exercise Number of Ordinary Shares of Grant Price Period J S Lane B Bickell S J Quayle T J C Welton 1987 Scheme 10.1.
2001 2.26 2006 7,466 7,466 7,466 7,466 Performance conditions as described above apply to options granted under the 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme prior to vesting.
Options may vest no earlier than three years after grant and no later than five years after grant.
No options granted under the 2001 Scheme have yet vested.
No options lapsed during the year.
There have been no changes in options outstanding in the period from 1st October 2003 to 26th November 2003.
The Committee does not anticipate any changes to the conditions of the Schemes under which existing options have been granted.
The mid-market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares at 30th September 2003 was 2.225 and during the year then ended was quoted in the range 1.57 - 2.475.
J S Lane B Bickell S J Quayle T J C Welton 000 000 000 000 Gains realised on options exercised during year: Market price at date of exercise - 2.00 17 - - - - 2.225 - 27 13 13 Table 3 Share Entitlements audited Certain Directors hold entitlements to Ordinary shares in respect of that part of awards granted under the Companys Executive Share Award Scheme now terminated and the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme which they have elected to take by way of shares rather than cash.
At 30th September 2003 and at 26th November 2003 the trustee of the Shaftesbury PLC Employee Benefit Trust held a total of 217,820 Ordinary Shares in respect of awards granted but not delivered to Directors as set out below: Date of Award J S Lane B Bickell S J Quayle T J C Welton Executive Share Award Scheme 24th December 1997 - - - 10,050 Exercised in year - - - 10,050 7th January 1999 - - - 15,105 4th January 2000 10,388 5,740 5,463 5,204 Exercised in year 10,388 5,740 5,463 - Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 5th December 2001 31,665 25,700 16,062 17,209 17th December 2002 25,000 50,000 - 31,875 56,665 75,700 16,062 69,393 Page 28 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Remuneration committee report continued Table 3 Share Entitlements audited continued Each award of Ordinary Shares may be delivered to an individual at a consideration of 1 at any time between three and seven years after the date of grant of an award in the case of the Executive Share Award Scheme and between two and seven years in the case of the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme.
No long term performance conditions apply to these awards as the awards have been made after annual performance targets have already been met.
Total Shareholder Return The graph below shows the total shareholder return for the Company for each of the last five financial years compared with the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index.
The Company is a constituent of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index and the Committee considers this is the most appropriate benchmark against which the relative performance of the Company should be measured.
180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 Shaftesbury FTSE All Share Real Estate Index 20 Source: Datastream 0 30.9.
03 This graph shows the value, by 30th September 2003, of 100 invested in Shaftesbury PLC on 30th September 1998 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Real Estate Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Fees from external appointments The Company has been advised that J S Lane received fees in the year ended 30th September 2003 in respect of his directorship of two private companies unconnected with the Companys business totalling 7,250.
The other executive Directors did not hold any external appointments during the year.
On behalf of the Board John R K Emly Remuneration Committee Chairman 2nd December 2003 Value Page 29 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
