remuneration report The Remuneration Committee presents its Remuneration Report, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 November 2003.
Introduction Committee met four times during the Statement of Policy on Directors period under review.
A table showing Remuneration This report has been prepared in attendance at committee meetings is The Committee aims to provide accordance with the Directors' available on page 37. remuneration packages that meet the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. needs of a global IT services business.
The report also meets the relevant A copy of the full terms of reference is Such a business depends on the requirements of the Listing Rules of the available on the Companys website attraction, retention and motivation of high Financial Services Authority and describes www.
calibre executives who can be entrusted how the Board has applied the Principles with growing and enhancing the value of of Good Governance relating to Directors' The remuneration of non-executive the Group.
As required by the directors is a matter for the executive Regulations, a resolution to approve the members of the Board.
No director or In formulating the policy for the period report will be proposed at the Annual manager is involved in any decisions as to ending 30 September 2004 the General Meeting of the Company at which his or her own remuneration.
Remuneration Committee has considered the financial statements will be approved.
the following principles: The Regulations require the auditors to During the period under review the report to the Company's members on Committee took independent advice fromAll remuneration arrangements will be certain parts of the Directors' New Bridge Street Consultants in relation designed to support the Groups Remuneration Report and to state to the market practice on executive business strategy in line with best whether in their opinion those parts of the compensation to help it achieve its practice standards: report have been properly prepared in objectives.
New Bridge Street ConsultantsSetting levels of total reward that will be accordance with the Companies Act 1985 were appointed by the Committee and competitive within the relevant market as amended by the Regulations.
The have no other contracts or connections and location: report has therefore been divided into with the Group.
Details of the  schemes will reward the separate sections for audited and with New Bridge Street Consultants are achievement of predetermined Group unaudited information.
available on the Companys website targets and individual performance www.
against specific key performance Unaudited Information indicators: and The Group Executive Human ResourcesAt an on-target level, the proportion of The Remuneration Committee and the Executive Chairman provide executive remuneration that is The Remuneration Committee members information on current remuneration and performance linked will be not less than for the period under review were as performance of directors and senior 45% of total remuneration, including follows: management, and are available to the grants under any long term incentive committee to answer any questions that schemes valued according to the Rory Scott Chairman may arise.
The Committee consults with Black-Scholes model.
Robert Mansfield the Group Executive Human Resources Dorian Wharton-Hood and the Executive Chairman on the The policy relating to each component of Committees proposals for remuneration.
remuneration is summarised below: All the members of the Remuneration Committee are considered by the The Company Secretarys office provides Base Salary Company to be independent nonassistance and advice to the Remuneration The base salary of the executive directors executives and have no conflicts of Committee with respect to governance, the is subject to annual review and is set with interest in considering matters relating to operation of the Share Option Scheme reference to external market data, relating remuneration of executives.
to similar companies based in South ANNUAL REPORT 2003 43 remuneration report Africa and the UK and taking into account participate in the Share Option Scheme executive directors in the Groups the primary location of the directors 2000, subject to the approval of grants by provident fund, which is a defined concerned.
Consideration is given to the the Remuneration Committee.
Any future contribution pension scheme, in the size, market sector, business complexity grants to executive directors under this amounts as set out on page 45.
No other and international reach of the comparator scheme would be subject to challenging benefits are payable to the executive companies.
Individual performance and performance conditions.
In order for any directors.
increased responsibilities following on options granted to be exercisable the from the restructuring of the management executive directors would have to satisfy Non-Executive Directors Fees of the Group are also taken into personal and business performance The executive directors determine the consideration.
The performance criteria would remuneration of the non-executive relate to the personal key performance directors annually.
Consideration is given Annual Bonus Plan indicators set according to the Groups to fees payable to non-executive directors Each of the executive directors is entitled performance management system.
Additional fees to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
business performance criteria would be are paid to committee members and For 2003 04, the bonus payable is divided cash generation, earnings per share and chairmen of Board committees to take into two sections: an amount determined net profit before tax targets which would account of the additional work involved.
by common Group financial performance be required to be achieved.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to targets related to net profit, earnings per participate in the Companys Share Option share and generation of cash, together These criteria have been chosen to Scheme.
It is not proposed to review the with an amount related to the achievement ensure that potential awards to executives non-executive directors fees in 2004. of personal key performance indicators as are linked to the performance, profitability set in accordance with the Groups and sustainability of the business.
Service Contracts and External performance management system.
In Appointments addition to the above criteria no The Committee is currently reviewing long All the executive directors have identical performance bonus is payable to directors term incentives.
Following this review, it is service contracts.
They were all entered unless the Group as a whole achieves proposed that shareholder approval will be into on 19 July 2000 and were amended profitability at a level determined by the sought for new long term incentives in on 4 December 2001.
The upper limit for the annual general meeting.
Any such incentives will contracts are rolling contracts, and contain bonus plan for directors is 100% of their also be subject to stringent performance a three month notice period.
criteria, details of which have not yet been termination, the executive director will be determined, but which will be presented to entitled to payments equal to 12 months For the financial year 2002 03, the shareholders when any scheme is salary plus on-target bonus.
Remuneration Committee has received submitted for approval.
assessments of the performance of each All of the non-executive directors currently executive director relative to their agreed Pensions and Other Benefits operate under letters of appointment target.
However, as the Group as a whole Pensions and other benefits such as life which can be terminated upon agreement did not meet the overall profitability insurance benefits for executive directors with no notice period required.
criteria, the Remuneration Committee reflect the practice in the countries in determined that regardless of individual which they are primarily resident.
The Executive directors are not permitted to performance no bonuses were due to be executive directors each received life retain fees paid to them in relation to paid.
insurance benefit, disability insurance external appointments.
The cost to the Long Term Incentives company is shown in the table on page All the executive directors are entitled to 45.
Contributions are also made for the 44 DIMENSION DATA Audited Information Directors Remuneration Provident Life Disability Directors Basic Pension insurance insurance Medical 2003 2002 fees salary fund benefit benefit aid Total Total $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 DA Frankel 10----- 10 10 SM Joubert - 292 8325 310 266 RC Mansfield 56----- 56 49 MM Ngoasheng 10----- 10 - JJ Ord - 645 30 8 3 5 691 660 PK Quarmby - 340 10 3 2 5 360 286 MT Rutherford - 375 25 4 2 5 411 359 RM Scott 81----- 81 78 GH Waddell 64----- 64 45 PD Wharton-Hood 60----- 60 60 281 1,652 73 18 9 20 2,053 1,813 An increase of US$25,000 is included in this amount for the additional responsibility as Chairman of Datacraft Asia following his appointment to this role.
No performance bonuses were paid to Directors in the 2003 or 2002 financial years.
For the options granted on 21 November 2002 to be exercisable each of the executive directors must satisfy personal and business performance criteria.
The personal performance criteria relate to the personal key performance indicators set according to the Groups performance management system.
Payment is dependent on 100% achievement of the business criteria and a minimum of 18 out of 25 score on the personal key performance criteria.
The business performance criteria are cash generation, earnings per share and net profit before interest and tax targets which are to be achieved over the financial year to 30 September 2004.
All targets are challenging and stretching and will ensure that potential rewards to executives are linked to performance of the business and not simply an inflationary stock market environment.
The Companys share price at 30 September 2003 was 26 UK pence and 301 SA cents.
The high and low market prices of the Companys shares during the year are shown below.
Further details of share prices are shown on page 54.
Sterling SA rand High 27 UK pence 311 SA cents Low 24.25 UK pence 298 SA cents ANNUAL REPORT 2003 47 remuneration report Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Details of the Directors beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings in the Company are shown below.
Other than the shareholdings listed above, the Directors hold no interests in other Group companies.
48 DIMENSION DATA Long Term Performance In line with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the graph below shows Dimension Datas total shareholder return between listing on the London Stock Exchange on 19 July 2000 and 30 September 2003, together with a comparator index.
Total shareholder return 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 30 Sep 99 30 Sep 00 30 Sep 01 30 Sep 02 30 Sep 03 Dimension Data Holdings FTSE Software & Computer Services Index This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2003, of 100 invested in Dimension Data Holdings plc on 31 July 2000 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Index.
The other values plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
This index was chosen as the Company has been a constituent since listing.
By order of the Board RM Scott Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 November 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2003 49
