Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2003 Remuneration Committee No non-Committee members are entitled to attend meetings The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the of the Committee as of right although the Executive Chairman approval of the remuneration and employment terms of the the Chairman, the Group Human Resources Director and Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel in his capacity as Committee Secretary are generally invited to The Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors, all of attend to assist and advise the Committee on matters under whom are considered to be independent, and its membership consideration.
Other executives may be invited to attend in during the year was as follows: respect of specific issues where their guidance may be of assistance to the Committee.
In this regard, the Chairman and Committee Chairman Chief Executive Officer of both EMI Recorded Music and EMI Sir Dominic Cadbury - Non-executive Deputy Chairman Music Publishing respectively the CEO Recorded Music and and Senior Independent Non-executive Director the CEO Music Publishing have attended meetings and have provided material assistance and advice with respect to their Committee Members respective divisions, while the Chief Financial Officer the Harald Einsmann - Non-executive Director CFO has attended to assist with financial issues.
None of Peter Georgescu - Non-executive Director since his these attendees participates in any discussion relating to his appointment on 1 September 2002 or her own remuneration.
Michael Jackson - Non-executive Director until his resignation on 7 May 2002 In monitoring the level and mix of remuneration packages, Hugh Jenkins - Non-executive Director until his the Committee has access to a number of music and general retirement on 19 July 2002 industry remuneration surveys, covering both local and Kathleen ODonovan - Non-executive Director international data.
The Committee takes into account factors such as the nature, size, complexity and international profile In addition, David Londoner joined the Committee on 13 May of the surveyed companies relative to EMI: it also seeks such 2003 following his appointment as a Non-executive Director specific advice from the external consultants as it considers on that day.
Terms of reference Policy statement on Directors remuneration The key terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: Background To review in detail and approve all aspects of the terms The Committee recognises that, as a major UK-listed and conditions of employment of each Executive Director company, EMI should comply with the highest standards of of the Group, together with their pension rights and the corporate governance and, wherever it is appropriate to do amount and basis of any compensation payable.
so having regard to the wider interests of shareholders, UK remuneration best practices.
Accordingly, the Committee To review and approve the base salaries of the most senior periodically reviews EMIs remuneration practices against direct-line reports to the Executive Directors, together with such standards and practices while recognising that the their remuneration packages, their pension rights and the achievement of success in the highly competitive worldwide amount and basis of any compensation payable.
music market depends critically upon EMIs ability to compete for the management talent necessary to secure, develop and To approve the operation of any share plans whether promote recording artists, composers and songwriters.
EMIs executive or all-employee including the exercise, on behalf remuneration policies, therefore, will continue to reflect the of the Board, of any authority delegated to the Board under need to attract, retain and motivate top-calibre international the rules of those plans.
management in the context of remuneration levels and practices in the international music and entertainment industry, To review periodically and supervise, on behalf of the many of which are set in the US, the indigenous repertoire Board, compliance by the Group with the Combined Code of which, in the year ended 31 March 2003, amounted to 48% published by the Committee on Corporate Governance of worldwide record sales.
In this regard, it should be noted that June 1998, and any other applicable code of practice, only 11% of EMIs senior executives are employed in the UK.
listing rule or other regulatory or best-practice requirement relating to remuneration.
The Groups remuneration policies also recognise that the Music Publishing and Recorded Music businesses operate in Attendance at meetings and advisers distinct marketplaces.
The level and form of remuneration will During the year, the Committee appointed New Bridge Street continue to be tailored to the different marketplaces in which Consultants to become its adviser.
This firm has provided the Group competes and to recognise the overall importance material advice to the Committee to assist it in developing of creative talent to the success of the Group.
and monitoring policies for remunerating senior employees throughout the Group, as well as the new long-term incentive The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors have plan for which shareholders approval is being sought at the been designed to help them attain, and encourage them to 2003 AGM.
New Bridge Street Consultants has not, during retain, long-term interests in EMIs shares, and thereby align the year, provided any other services to the Group.
their interests with those of shareholders.
Performance-related elements, in the form of annual bonuses and share-based The Committee schedules three meetings during each year long-term incentives, represent a significant proportion of but also holds additional meetings as and when material issues remuneration, typically providing at least 50% of the total arise for discussion.
During the last financial year, the annual remuneration opportunity for the achievement of Committee met on six occasions.
44 Base salary The annual bonus for the CEO Recorded Music is based on EMI believes pay should be closely linked to performance.
the division achieving stretching operating margin targets.
Base salary levels are determined by the Committee having Given the current uncertainty within the worldwide recorded regard to the experience and performance of the individual music market, the Committee believes that it is important to executive, the performance of the Group as a whole over the control the cost structure of the Recorded Music business preceding year, data regarding external salary levels for to ensure that costs can be supported by the repertoire as comparable positions and internal relativities.
It therefore considers that operating margin seeks to ensure that base salaries are generally set no higher should be the primary focus for the present.
In addition, than the median for the music industry.
as can be seen from pages 48 and 53, the CEO Recorded Music has received option grants which provide a sufficient Recognising the requirements of good corporate governance incentive for him to grow the business in the interests of all and a desire to constrain fixed costs to the advantage of all shareholders rather than simply maximising margin through shareholders, base salaries for certain operating executives, cost savings alone.
most notably for the CEO Recorded Music, have been kept significantly below industry market levels.
In these instances, The Committees policy is not to pay transaction-related in order to deliver competitive overall levels of pay, the balance bonuses.
of the overall remuneration is weighted more significantly towards long-term incentives than is the case with EMIs Details of the bonuses achieved during the year by individual major competitors.
Executive Directors are set out on page 50.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the financial Long-term incentive arrangements year were as follows: Of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the CFO will participate in the new Executive Share Incentive Plan ESIP E L Nicoli 680,000 pa for which shareholder approval is being sought at this years M N Bandier US$3,092,266 pa AGM.
Under the terms of the proposed ESIP, regular annual A M J I Levy 680,000 pa awards of both share options and performance shares will R C Faxon US$766,025 pa be made, with awards vesting after a fixed three-year period subject to the achievement of demanding pre-vesting Salaries are reviewed annually with any increases generally performance conditions.
The Committee has determined that, for the first award to Annual bonus be made under the ESIP in 2003, options over shares worth Annual bonus opportunities are in line with general industry up to two times base salary may be awarded, together with practice.
an award of performance shares worth up to one times base salary.
These levels will only be exceeded, if necessary, in The Chairmans and the CFOs annual bonus opportunity recruitment cases but in no case will they exceed eight times at target and maximum performance is 50% and 100%, salary for options and four times salary for performance shares.
The CEO Music Publishings In accordance with the terms of his service contract, the CFOs annual bonus opportunity at target and maximum annual option grant will be not less than 250,000 shares.
performance is 50% and 80%, respectively, of base salary.
The CEO Recorded Music is entitled, under his service One third of the number of share options granted may be agreement, to a maximum annual cash bonus of up to 200% exercised if normalised earnings per share EPS growth, over of base salary, based on achieving stretching pre-set the three years following grant with no retesting opportunities, operating profit margins for EMI Recorded Music.
exceeds an average of retail price index RPI plus 3% pa: two thirds of the number of share options granted may be These bonus opportunities are paid in cash following the exercised if normalised EPS growth exceeds an average of RPI approval of the accounts for the relevant year.
Executive plus 5% pa: and all share options granted may be exercised Directors no longer have the opportunity to defer receipt of if normalised EPS growth exceeds an average of RPI plus 7% their bonuses for a period in return for a matching share award.
pa. To the extent that the targets have not been fully satisfied, options will lapse.
Performance criteria are tailored to individual positions and, subject to an overriding discretion of the Committee to ensure Performance share awards will vest by reference to the that bonuses are appropriate in all the circumstances, Companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR are determined as follows: performance over a fixed three-year period with no retesting opportunities.
TSR is a measure of the return to a shareholder For the Chairman and the CFO, bonuses are linked to the in terms of share price appreciation, assuming reinvestment attainment of pre-set financial targets for the Group.
This of any dividends over a fixed period.
25% of the shares indicative amount can then be adjusted up or down, but subject to an award will vest if the Companys TSR, relative subject to the maximum of 100% by up to a third, if the to the companies in the FTSE Mid-250 Index excluding Committee believes circumstances so warrant.
investment trusts, as at the date of grant, is at least at the median of that group.
This will increase, on a straight-line The annual bonus for the CEO Music Publishing is based basis, to full vesting if the Companys TSR is at least at the on pre-set targets relating to the divisions economic profit upper quintile ie within the highest 20% of that group.
ie taking into account the value of the investment in the Both the starting and ending TSR of the Company and each business from year to year, reflecting Music Publishings company in the comparator group will be assessed using threeobjective to achieve sustained profit growth while month average figures.
In addition to satisfying the TSR providing an adequate return on invested assets.
performance condition, awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee considers that the Companys TSR performance is reflective of the underlying performance of the Company over the period.
45 Remuneration Report continued The EPS and TSR targets, which were selected following On joining EMI in October 2001, Mr Levy was granted extensive discussions with the Companys leading institutional options over 10m shares at exercise prices ranging shareholders and which have received the support of an between 300p and 700p.
The mid-market price of an EMI overwhelming majority of those shareholders, are considered share on the date of grant was 265.26p.
He was also entitled to be both demanding and stretching in light of the prevailing to subsequent grants of options, each over 2m shares, business climate over the medium term.
following the announcement of the interim results for each of the four financial years up to 31 March 2006.
These levels The EPS growth targets were chosen because profit growth of grant reflect the fact that his base salary and potential as measured through EPS is currently a key objective within cash bonus are substantially lower than for equivalent EMI and is considered to be the most appropriate measure positions in other major record companies, and are of financial performance.
designed to align his interests closely with those of shareholders.
The FTSE Mid-250 Index was chosen as the TSR comparator group as there are no independently quoted music majors to On 19 December 2002, the remaining entitlements were provide a more bespoke comparator group and, therefore, it consolidated into a single grant.
The terms of the grant was felt appropriate to compare the performance of EMI with replicate those agreed on Mr Levys joining and, therefore, the constituents of the FTSE Mid-250 Index on the basis that, the exercise prices will only be determined when the interim from an investor perspective, shareholders have the choice of results for the respective years have been announced, investing in EMI as compared with other UK quoted using a five-day average share price.
Similarly, the normal companies of a similar size.
three-year vesting period will only commence on the date that the exercise price is determined.
In all the circumstances, the Committee considers these two measures, taken together, to be the most appropriate method Exercise of all the options is generally conditional on the of assessing the success of EMI over the medium term and, Companys adjusted diluted EPS growing by at least an accordingly, considers them to be appropriate performance average of RPI plus 2.5% pa over the period from 31 March conditions.
2002 to the 31 March following the relevant vesting date with retesting throughout the options life.
The EPS measure used will be fully diluted EPS adjusted to take account of exceptional items.
EMIs performance against The Committee concluded that such grants were necessary the EPS and TSR targets will be monitored by the Committee, to recruit Mr Levy, bearing in mind the significant salary which will assess the extent to which the targets have been sacrifice by him and, therefore, made such grants relying achieved.
The EPS calculations will be verified by the on the exemption in chapter 13.
13A of the UK Listing Companys external auditor while the TSR calculations will Authoritys Listing Rules.
The Committee will not make be undertaken by New Bridge Street Consultants, using amendments to the arrangements established for Mr Levy data supplied by Datastream.
that are to his advantage without seeking the consent of shareholders.
Consistent with the Companys general The CEO Music Publishing and the CEO Recorded Music approach, no benefits under these option arrangements have one-off long-term incentive arrangements covering, for Mr Levy will be pensionable.
in Mr Bandiers case, the period from April 2001 to 31 March 2006 and, in Mr Levys case, the period from October 2001 Further details concerning these grants to Mr Bandier and to 31 March 2006.
In view of these one-off arrangements, Mr Levy, including those as to vesting on termination of which are described below, neither of them will participate in employment or following a change of control of the Company, the ESIP for the duration of these arrangements: are set out in footnote f on page 52 and footnotes f and g on page 53, respectively.
In 2001, in place of overlapping annual share awards based on three-year performance cycles, Mr Bandier was Details of the share options granted to Executive Directors in granted a one-time performance share award under the previous years in accordance with the scheme s then applying Groups Senior Executive Incentive Plan SEIP of up to and the performance criteria attaching to those grants are 1.25m shares.
The performance condition for this award contained in the table of Directors Share Options on page 53. requires 2% pa growth in the Music Publishing divisions economic profit for the entire performance period to 31 Benefits in kind March 2006, at which level one sixth of the shares accrue, Benefits and perquisites are based on general industry practice with maximum payout at 7% pa growth with straight-line and generally include a car or car allowance together with life vesting between these two points.
Mr Bandier was also assurance, retirement, disability and healthcare plans.
Further granted a restricted share award under the SEIP of 662,500 details are set out on page 50. shares.
These shares will vest no earlier than 31 March 2006.
The award was in lieu of additional base salary and is not, therefore, subject to performance requirements.
The aim of the award was to bring Mr Bandiers basic annual remuneration into line with competitive practice in the US, where he is based, whilst aligning his interests more closely with those of the shareholders and providing him with a strong incentive to remain with the Group.
No further awards of this nature are envisaged.
46 Pension arrangements Chairman and CFO - Eric Nicoli and Roger Faxon For UK-based Executive Directors, other than for the CFO Mr Nicolis service contract, dated 11 April 2003, is terminable whose pension arrangements are summarised below, the by the Company on one years notice.
Mr Faxons contract, policy is to provide pension benefits through a final salary dated as of 1 April 2003, allows EMI to terminate the contract 1 arrangement with an accrual rate of 30th.
Where at any time without notice with a specified severance payment possible, this is achieved through the Groups Inland calculated on the same basis as if he were entitled to one years Revenue approved occupational pension scheme.
Previously, the effective notice period for both Mr Nicoli An unapproved scheme is utilised to provide benefits on and Mr Faxon would increase to two years following a change salaries above the Inland Revenue imposed cap, with the of control.
However, recognising the views of institutional level of contribution being set by reference to an actuarial shareholders, they have agreed, for no compensation, to 1 assessment of the value of a 30th arrangement.
Benefits reduce evenly over the course of the current financial year, are based on base salaries only and specifically exclude the notice period following a change of control, so that, as from bonuses.
1 April 2004, they will both be subject to the standard one year in all circumstances.
For the US-based CEO Music Publishing, the Groups retirement plan contributions are made with respect to both In the case of gross misconduct or other circumstances salary and annual bonus, consistent with normal practice justifying summary dismissal, the Company may terminate in the US and the Groups benefit arrangements for all US their service contracts without payment of compensation.
Termination by the Company in other circumstances, without the required notice being given, entitles the departing For the mainly UK-based CFO, who is a US citizen, executive to lump-sum compensation, calculated on: retirement plan contributions are made in respect of his base salary only.
his then base annual salary currently 680,000 pa in the case of Mr Nicoli and US$766,025 pa in the case of Mr Directors service contracts Faxon : plus, The Combined Code recommends that one-year notice periods or contract terms be set as an objective for Executive the value of retirement benefits and either the continued Directors.
It is EMIs policy to achieve that objective, where enjoyment of, or the value of, benefits in kind provided possible.
to him the accrued value of such retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would have been 387, 083 in the The Committee endorses the principle of mitigation of loss case of Mr Nicoli and US$444,115 in the case of Mr Faxon on early termination of a service contract and recognises the had they been dismissed on 31 March 2003 : plus, advantage of service contracts including an explicit calculation of compensation payable upon early termination, other than a sum in respect of his annual bonus opportunity, being the for misconduct or in other circumstances justifying summary amount equal to his target-level annual bonus opportunity termination.
The Committees policy is that such a calculation currently 50% multiplied by his base salary for the period should generally be based on base salary, annual bonus at from: target level and other benefits, including pension contributions, for the notice period or unexpired term of the service contract.
in the case of Mr Nicoli, the date of his departure to the The contract should also include an explicit obligation to end of the contractual notice period: mitigate and to offset earnings from alternative employment undertaken during the notice period or unexpired term of the in the case of Mr Faxon, the commencement of the contract against all or part of the compensation payment.
financial year in which he departed to the end of the However, the Committee is conscious that: contractual notice period.
EMI remains as the only independently owned and quoted Mr Nicolis entitlement to such compensation is subject to both music major in the world and has been the subject of a duty to mitigate and offset for any earnings which he derives takeover speculation for many years.
To be able to from other employment during the unworked part of the notice compete for talent, it has, therefore, been necessary period for which he has been compensated.
to provide an additional degree of protection for Executive Directors in certain cases.
In the light of competitive music industry practice, and in recognition of Mr Faxons agreement, when he was promoted Fixed-term contracts of three or more years are the norm to CFO, to reduce his basic contract term from two years to for senior executives in the global entertainment industry one year, there is no obligation on him to mitigate or to offset and such agreements often include no or only a limited against the compensation payment any earnings from obligation to mitigate.
alternative employment during the year following termination.
However, the Companys obligation to continue to provide Employment contracts for music executives are often insurance benefits will cease to the extent that similar benefits closely negotiated, with the executive represented by are provided by another employer following termination.
In the light of such factors, the Committee considers that it is in the best interests of EMI and its shareholders to retain the flexibility to compete for top executive talent, where necessary, through the ability to offer contract terms in excess of one year.
However, the Committee recognises that this is not consistent with UK remuneration best practices and, therefore, may agree to concede compensation payments calculated, where necessary, without mitigation in order to limit contract terms or notice periods to one year.
47 Remuneration Report continued CEO Recorded Music Alain Levy Where compensation is payable in respect of termination of Mr Mr Levys service contract, which commenced on 15 October Bandiers service contract, it is specified to be the aggregate of: 2001, allows the Company to terminate his employment at any time without notice.
If termination is for cause, no his then base annual salary currently US$3,092,266 for compensation is payable.
If termination is without cause, two years: plus, or Mr Levy terminates the agreement for good reason for example, breach by EMI, he is entitled to a severance payment continuation for two years or for one year if termination calculated on the basis of one years pay, as defined below.
occurs after 1 April 2005 of medical and dental benefits However, this is increased to two years pay on termination and retirement plan contributions the accrued value of without cause following a change of control of the Company.
such retirement contributions and medical and dental benefits for the year ended 31 March 2003 would have The Committee considers that this provision is appropriate been US$1,578,120 if he had been terminated on in view of Mr Levys acceptance of a base salary and annual that date : plus, cash bonus opportunity significantly lower than equivalent positions in other major record companies and a basic an amount equal to his target-level annual bonus contract term of one year, which is also substantially less than opportunity currently 50% of base salary for two years.
The provision was an important factor in Mr Levy agreeing to join the Company, While, reflecting competitive music industry practice, there since his previous employment had been terminated following is no specific obligation on Mr Bandier to mitigate, the a change of control of his employer, despite his success in continuation of salary and bonus for 12 months after building that company into the worlds largest music company.
termination is subject to offset in respect of salary and bonus In approving the provision, the Committee took into account earned by Mr Bandier from a subsequent employer in the 12 the fact that two years compensation on termination without months following termination: and the continuation of benefits cause following a change of control, would be materially less is also offset to the extent of similar benefits provided by the than one year based on a typical music industry salary and subsequent employer.
The provisions in Mr Levys service contract regarding change Where compensation is payable in respect of Mr Levys service of control and in Mr Bandiers contract regarding two years contract, it is specified to be a lump sum calculated on: compensation on termination have been discussed with both the Association of British Insurers and the National Association his then base annual salary currently 680,000 pa : of Pension Funds.
plus, Non-executive Directors the value of retirement benefits and either the value of, Non-executive Directors do not participate in EMIs bonus or the continued enjoyment of, other benefits in kind scheme or long-term incentive plans and are not eligible for provided to him the value of such retirement accrual membership of any of the Groups pension plans.
Their fees and the benefits in kind would have been 335,704 had are payable wholly in cash.
he been dismissed on 31 March 2003 : plus, The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts the average annual bonus earned by him over the last with the Company.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed three financial years or the period since he joined the for a specified term of an initial period to the next AGM after Company, if less 340,000 in respect of the year ended appointment and, subject to election at that Meeting, for a 31 March 2003. further period ending at the third AGM held thereafter.
Subsequent re-election is subject to endorsement by the At the time of his appointment, Mr Levy accepted a basic Board and the approval of shareholders.
Each Non-executive contract term of one year, which is significantly less than Directors date of appointment as a Director and his or her most competitive music industry practice, as well as a base salary recent date of re-election at an AGM is shown below: and potential cash bonus at levels substantially lower than those for equivalent positions in other major record Date of appointment as a Date of companies.
In recognition of this, there is no obligation on Non-executive last re-election Mr Levy to mitigate or to offset against the compensation Director at AGM payment any earnings from alternative employment following termination.
It was considered inappropriate to seek to Sir Dominic Cadbury 20.2.
01 renegotiate this aspect of Mr Levys contract following the H Einsmann 18.5.
02 issue of the latest Association of British Insurers guidelines P A Georgescu 1.9.
01 CEO Music Publishing Martin Bandier Mr Bandiers service contract, dated as of 1 April 2001, is with a US subsidiary of EMI and is governed by New York state law.
Their appointments may be terminated at any time without The contract allows the employing company to terminate his compensation in the event that they are not re-elected by employment at any time without notice.
If termination is for shareholders or otherwise in accordance with the Companys cause, no compensation is payable.
If termination is without Articles of Association.
On termination, a Non-executive cause, or Mr Bandier terminates the contract for good reason, Director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees, he is entitled to compensation based on two years salary and but not to any other compensation.
The Committee considers that these terms for Mr Bandier are appropriate in view of competitive practice in the US, where he is resident and where EMI Music Publishing is headquartered, and the fact that the service contract is intended to secure his services until age 65.
Additionally, following a change of control of the Company, Mr Bandier is entitled to terminate his service contract after a one-year transitional period and to receive a compensation payment as described below.
Mr Bandiers contract also provides for its automatic expiry on 31 March 2006.
48 Total shareholder return performance graph Payments to former Directors during the financial year The new Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 During the year, amounts were paid to former Directors, require companies to include a graph indicating their TSR as follows: ie share price growth assuming reinvestment of any dividends performance over the last five years relative to a recognised K M Berry equity index.
In the absence of a suitable index of true In accordance with the terms of his service agreement, comparators, the Committee has elected to show EMIs Mr Berry was paid further amounts during the year in respect performance related to the FTSE Mid-250 Index the of salary continuation, benefits and annual bonus.
The value constituents of which comprise the comparator group for the of all these amounts was reported in the Directors TSR performance condition to which awards under the ESIP Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2002. will be subject.
Notwithstanding the termination of his agreement, Mr Berry had the right to continued use, for two years following the date Total shareholder return of termination of his employment, of the house in Los Angeles Source: Datastream provided to him rent-free by the Group.
He also had the option to purchase that property and its contents for the externally Value appraised market value.
He exercised this option on 31 July 2002, paying the Group US$6.0m which represented a profit 160 of US$2.015m 1.4m over the Groups book value for the 140 property.
As a result, his right of use, the value of which was 120 reported in the financial year ended 31 March 2002, was extinguished.
100 80 Mr Berrys remaining grants under the Groups share option schemes lapsed, without being exercised, on 14 October 2002.
60 40 A J Bates 20 Mr Bates ceased to be a Director on 4 February 2002 but remained as an employee of the Group until 31 May 2002.
0 31.03.98 31.03.99 31.03.00 31.03.01 31.03.02 31.03.03 In accordance with the terms of his service agreement and the subsequent letter of termination, Mr Bates was paid certain EMI Group plc sums during the financial year ended 31 March 2003 and FTSE Mid-250 Index certain share awards vested.
All of these sums were reported in the financial year ended 31 March 2002, other than the salary This graph looks at the value, by the end of March 2003, of 100 invested in EMI Group plc on 31 March 1998 compared with the and benefits paid to Mr Bates between 1 April 2002 and 31 May 2002, which amounted to 133,221 in aggregate.
value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid-250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Of Mr Batess entitlements under the Groups SEIP, a total of 290,479 shares vested as at 31 May 2002.
Up to a further Policy on outside appointments 118,687 shares could vest on or before 30 June 2004, if the The Executive Directors are permitted to take external related performance criteria are fulfilled.
All of Mr Batess appointments as non-executive directors but usually only remaining entitlements under the Groups share option one such appointment may be by another publicly quoted schemes will lapse on 31 May 2003. company.
They may retain the remuneration from such appointments.
All appointments must be approved by the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to any scope for conflicts of interest.
Share ownership guidelines During the year, the Committee adopted a formal policy of requiring Executive Directors to hold shares in EMI worth at least two times their respective salaries.
Executive Directors are required to build up this shareholding by retaining shares with a value of at least 25% of the after-tax gain arising on the maturity of any long-term incentive awards.
49 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration details a Annual remuneration Base Compensation 2003 2002 salary for loss Incentive Total Total b or fees of employment Expenses Benefits remuneration in year in year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 671.2 67.2 340.0 1,078.4 685.5 c M N Bandier 1,934.3 49.1 1,547.4 3,530.8 3,726.6 d A M J I Levy 680.0 182.5 340.0 1,202.5 738.3 R C Faxon 495.2 39.4 247.6 782.2 103.4 Non-executive Directors: Sir Dominic Cadbury 57.1 57.1 53.1 H Einsmann 34.3 34.3 32.4 P A Georgescu appointed 1.9.
02 2,276.3 Former Non-executive Directors: M R Jackson resigned 7.5.
b The nature of the non-cash benefits provided to the Executive Directors is as follows: E L Nicoli: - provision of a Company car plus use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
M N Bandier: - car allowance of US$36,000 pa: and, - participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance.
A M J I Levy: - use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
R C Faxon: - car allowance of US$25,000 pa: - participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance: and, - health club memberships in both New York and London.
d In accordance with Mr Levys service agreement, a payment of 138,232 was made to Ilchester Investments Ltd, a company controlled by Mr Levy and his family, to reimburse the costs of its early surrender of the lease of its office premises following Mr Levy joining EMI.
e This sum represents an assessment of Mr Berrys rent-free use of housing in California provided by the Group until its sale during July 2002.
Remuneration from prior-year share awards ceasing to be contingent 2003 2002 a a Awards Total value Awards Total value No.
02 75,344 273.1 Total 210,061 187.5 414,423 1,453.4 a The value is based on the share price on the date that awards ceased to be contingent.
b Whilst in certain circumstances these restricted share awards may lapse or be released before the vesting date, a proportion of their value is included in reported remuneration each year to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which these shares are earned.
50 Directors interests ab Directors interests all beneficial in the Companys Ordinary Shares of 14p each As at 1.4.
02 or date of appointment Non-contingent Directly held As at 31.3.
03 if later c e share awards shares Total shares held Total shares held Executive Directors: d E L Nicoli 133,982 69,186 203,168 138,032 M N Bandier 379,760 379,760 155,060 A M J I Levy 775,000 775,000 700,000 e R C Faxon 296,182 36,473 332,655 220,027 Non-executive Directors: Sir Dominic Cadbury 50,000 50,000 20,000 H Einsmann 1,800 1,800 1,800 P A Georgescu 100,000 100,000 K A ODonovan 2,000 2,000 2,000 a The Companys Register of Directors Interests is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. b No Director had any interest in either shares or debentures of any subsidiary of the Company.
c Non-contingent share awards shown in this column are also included as incentive awards in the table on page 52. d On 23 May 2003, Mr Nicolis interests in the Companys shares increased by 64 shares on the reinvestment of dividends and tax credits received in respect of shares held by him and his wife through EMI Corporate Personal Equity Plans.
e The total of directly held shares does not include the post-tax amount of an incentive share award of 19,518 shares and the related 2:3 matching award of 13,012 shares that vested during the year, as the shares could not be delivered to Mr Faxon until after the end of the close period for Directors share dealings on 21 May 2003.
51 Remuneration Report continued Outstanding awards under long-term incentive plans As at 1.4.
02 During year Date of Matching As at a b c award Incentive Performance Restricted Awarded awards Vested Lapsed 31.3.
02 112,628 112,628 Total 183,554 222,289 0 112,628 13,012 76,966 54,532 399,985 a Incentive share awards are not contingent on future performance and or are no longer subject to forfeiture.
Such awards, made under the current Senior Executive Incentive Plan, are subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if deferred for three years from the date of the award or an additional 2:3 matching award if deferred for six years from the date of the award.
The total of the eventual award depends on the achievement of Group or business unit performance against profit targets set by the Remuneration Committee by the end of a performance period that terminates on 31 March in the third year after the date of the award.
For awards made prior to 1998, performance is further reassessed in each of the following three years before the award lapses.
The eventual award is subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if vesting is deferred for a further three years from the vesting date.
In certain circumstances, for example upon a change of control of EMI, awards could be released before the normal vesting date.
For Mr Nicoli, Mr Bandier and Mr Faxon, release of awards made up to 31 March 2001 is subject to a further performance requirement that EMIs Total Shareholder Return must have at least equalled the median of those companies that comprised the FTSE 100 at the start of the three-year performance cycle.
Mr Nicoli has a performance share award granted on 15 June 2001 which will vest on a sliding scale against three-year compound growth in earnings of between 6.1% and 22.5%.
Mr Faxon continues to participate in a performance share award granted on 15 June 2001 based on Music Publishings performance, which requires the same rates of compound growth but related to Music Publishings economic profit.
c Mr Bandiers restricted share award is not subject to performance criteria.
A proportion of this award is included in remuneration each year so as to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which the shares are earned.
In certain circumstances, the award could lapse or be released before the vesting date, as described in footnote f below.
d Lapsed as of 31 March 2003. e On vesting of the base award, a 2:3 matching award of 13,012 shares was made.
f Mr Bandiers outstanding share awards, which are set out in the table above, would vest, in whole or in part, if he was dismissed other than for cause or following a change of control of EMI.
Both his performance share and restricted share awards will lapse if, prior to the vesting date of 31 March 2006, Mr Bandier resigns voluntarily or his employment agreement is terminated by EMI for cause.
However, if Mr Bandiers employment is terminated without cause by EMI, he will receive the proportion of his restricted share award which he would have earned had he remained in employment for a further two years.
Under these same circumstances, he would also receive a proportion of his performance share awards pro rated to the date of termination, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance criteria.
In the event of a change of control of EMI, all the restricted share award would vest together with a proportion of the performance share award pro rated to the date of the change of control.
Following a change of control, a pro rata proportion of his performance share award would vest together with an additional 625,000 shares up to the maximum award of 1.25m shares on the earlier of one year after the date of the change of control or the termination of his employment without cause.
g Mr Faxon received an incentive award of 112,628 shares on 28 May 2002 when the closing mid-market share price was 267.25p.
52 ab Directors share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each Earliest As at 1.4.
02 normal or date of Date exercise Lapse Exercise appointment Exercised Granted Lapsed c e granted date date price if later in year in year in year As at 31.3.
Therefore, the total gain made on the exercise of share options was nil 2002:nil.
The closing mid-market share price on 31March 2003 was 89.25p.
The range of closing mid-market share prices during the year was 80p to 365p.
b All of the options were granted for nil consideration.
c Executive Directors share options are normally exercisable during the period commencing no earlier than three years and ending no later than 10 years from the date granted.
d ShareSave options are normally exercisable for a six-month period following completion of savings to either a three-year or a five-year ShareSave contract.
e Share options were granted to Executive Directors in previous years in accordance with the relevant Executive Share Option Scheme rules and market practice at the time.
The table above sets out information on the current Executive Directors grants of share options.
The performance criteria relating to these grants are as follows: For the period from 25 August 1995 to 9 December 1999, the criterion was that the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR over the relevant calculation period compared to the TSR of the companies in the FTSE 100 at 1 April prior to the date of grant is at least equal to the median of that group.
TSR is the percentage growth of the share price, assuming reinvestment of any dividends paid, over the calculation period.
The initial calculation period commences on 1 April immediately preceding the date of grant and ends on 31March three years later and, thereafter, calculations are made at each quarter end for the preceding three-year period until the performance criterion is met or the option lapses.
For the period 10 December 1999 to date, the criterion is that the increase in the Groups adjusted, fully diluted earnings per share over a three-year period following the date of grant exceeds an average of the UK Retail Prices Index plus a rate ranging between 2% and 3% pa.
The Committee chose the relevant performance criteria as they were considered to be challenging, to align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders and in accordance with the then existing market practice.
On termination of employment in certain circumstances, for example, as a result of death, disability, sale of the relevant business unit, normal retirement, or termination without cause, and if the performance criteria are on target for achievement, a proportion of the option may become exercisable prior to normal vesting.
If the performance criteria are not on target for achievement, the whole option lapses if it has not reached its normal vesting date.
Upon a change of control, all options vest, or can be exchanged for an equivalent value of options in the acquiring entity, with identical terms to the original options.
Similar provisions also apply to awards made under the SEIP.
Details of how these provisions have been applied in individual cases and how the one-off arrangements for Mr Bandier and Mr Levy apply on termination of their employment in these circumstances are set out in footnote f on page 52 and in footnote g below, respectively.
f On appointment, Mr Levy was granted options over 10m shares at prices between 300p and 700p.
Since appointment, Mr Levy has been granted additional options over a further 10m shares which represent his entitlement to options in respect of the five financial years up to and including, but ending on, 31 March 2006.
The exercise prices for these options will only be determined when the interim results for the respective financial years have been announced, using a five-day average share price.
g The terms of Mr Levys contract prescribe the impact of a cessation of employment or a change of control of EMI on the share options granted under his contract.
If Mr Levys appointment is terminated by EMI without cause or by Mr Levy with good reason as defined in the contract prior to 15 October 2003, the options over 8m shares priced from 300p to 500p will vest and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions but all other such options will lapse.
Should Mr Levys appointment be terminated in such circumstances after 15 October 2003, the options over all 10m shares will vest and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
If Mr Levys appointment is terminated in the circumstances described in the preceding paragraph, the options referred to in footnote f for which the prices have been determined by the date of termination, as set out in the table above, will vest and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions: all other options would lapse.
The exercise of options vested under the preceding paragraph must be undertaken within 12 months of the date of termination.
On a change of control of EMI, Mr Levys options will be treated as if his employment had been terminated by EMI without cause with the result that they may be exercised without regard to performance conditions, but the exercise period will be limited to six months.
A termination resulting from Mr Levys death or disability will be treated in the same manner as a termination by the Company without cause.
53 Remuneration Report continued Pensions The UK-based Executive Directors are executive members Up to age 65, the whole of a pension in payment is guaranteed of the UK EMI Group Pension Fund, which provides them, to increase by LPI the lower of the previous years increase in 1 on normal retirement at age 60, with a pension of 60th of the the Retail Prices Index and 5%.
After age 65, the pension in cap see below for each year of membership.
Members excess of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension or GMP that part contribute 4% of the cap.
On death there is a spouses pension of the pension which replaces the State Earnings Related of two thirds of the members pension ignoring the impact of Pension is guaranteed to increase by LPI, while that part of the any exchange of pension for a lump sum on retirement, plus GMP which built up since 6 April 1988 is guaranteed to increase child allowances if applicable.
An early retirement pension may by the lower of the previous years increase in the Retail Prices 1 be paid on leaving but the pension is reduced by 3% for each Index and 3%.
month that pension starts earlier than age 60.
Subject to the Companys the Committees in the case of Executive Directors The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 March 2003 of consent, the reduction applied may be less.
each Executive Directors accrued deferred pension at that date as well as the movement in that transfer value over the period.
Transfer values are calculated on a basis that assumes the The transfer values are liabilities of the EMI Group Pension Fund pension would be drawn at the earliest date where no reduction and reflect both the age of the Executive Director and his length would apply and with allowance for future pension increases of service and membership of the fund.
both before and after pension commences to reflect the past practice of granting increases greater than those guaranteed.
Increase in Increase in accured Directors tranfer value pension during contributions over the year a b Age at Accrued pension the year net of Transfer value of accrued pension during net of Directors a 31.3.
02 the year contributions Years pa pa pa pa Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 52 6,345 4,637 1,629 78,192 66,703 3,888 7,601 A M J I Levy 56 2,295 663 1,621 38,238 11,044 3,888 23,306 a The accrued pensions are the amounts which would be paid if the Director left service at the relevant date.
b The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
For those joining the EMI Group Pension Fund after 31 May affected by the cap and the after-tax value of contributions, 1989, the cap as defined in the Finance Act 1989 limits expressed as a percentage of base salary in excess of the cap, salary for pension purposes to 99,000 from 6 April 2003 which the Company paid to the defined contribution plan 2002: 97,200.
The Company, therefore, makes contributions in respect of them, were: to a separate defined contribution plan that provides additional benefits to those affected by the cap.
Executive Directors E L Nicoli 33.42% A M J I Levy 30.00% Contributions in the year to 31 March 2003 a FURBS Tax compensation Total Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 192,000 128,000 320,000 A M J I Levy 175,380 116,920 292,300 a Funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme These contributions are set at levels which, based on actuarial The table below sets out the contributions made to US money advice, are likely to deliver comparable benefits to the capped purchase pension arrangements in respect of the other two final salary element.
Contributions by Group Contributions by Director Total % US$ % US$ US$ Executive Directors: a a M N Bandier 33.4% of pay 1,782,934 6% of pay 320,287 2,103,221 R C Faxon 50% of base salary 383,013 14% of base salary 107,243 490,256 a Consistent with US practice, pay for this purpose includes the value of annual cash bonuses.
There were no retirement benefits paid to former Directors in As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, excess of those to which they became entitled when such benefits only those items on pages 50 to 54 inclusive have been subject to first became payable to such former Directors.
Compensation to former Directors not previously reported By Order of the Board There were no compensation payments made to former Directors that have not been previously reported.
Sir Dominic Cadbury Deputy Chairman Payments to third parties for making the Directors 16 May 2003 services available No payments have been made to third parties for making any Directors services available to the Company.
54 Enrique Iglesias Accounts White Stripes
