Remuneration Report Introduction Performance based remuneration comprises an annual cash bonus In preparing this Remuneration Report to shareholders, and long-term incentive plan.
The chart illustrates the mix of the Board has followed the provisions in Schedule B of the remuneration assuming target levels of annual performance and Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the the annualised expected value of long-term incentive provision.
Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance in 1998 the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Group Chief Executive Regulations 2002 the Regulations contained in schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Pursuant to the Regulations, this UK Based Directors Report is being put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22 April 2004.
The vote will US Based Director have advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not therefore, be specic to individual levels of remuneration.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% The Remuneration Committee Salary Annual Bonus and Long-term Incentives The Remuneration Committee was composed throughout the year of independent Non Executive Directors.
The current The Company encourages and facilitates its Executive Directors members are Michael Blackburn Chairman, David Williams to take on Non Executive positions with other listed public limited and Christine Cross who each served throughout the year.
companies in accordance with the New Code on Corporate Christopher Bartram was a member of the Committee until Governance.
Executive Directors are permitted by the Company he resigned as a Director in April 2003.
The Committee met six to retain their earnings from such positions.
Peter Johnson is an times during the year.
There were no absences except that independent Non Executive Director of D S Smith Plc where Christopher Bartram did not attend a meeting in March but this he chairs the Audit Committee and receives an annual fee of meeting was attended by the three other independent Non 43,000.
Andrew Carr-Locke is an independent Non Executive Executive Directors including the Chairman of the Committee.
Director of AWG Plc and receives an annual fee of 30,000.
Consultants Base Salary The Remuneration Committee has appointed the consulting The salaries of Executive Directors and the Group Company rm, Towers Perrin as its advisor and to provide it with market Secretary are reviewed annually by the Remuneration data and assistance on executive compensation including the Committee which takes into account the responsibilities, Companys share schemes.
Towers Perrin do not provide any experience, market competitiveness and performance in each other services to the Company outside these remuneration position.
To ascertain market competitive levels, Towers Perrin matters.
External legal advice is also sought where appropriate advises the Committee on market salary levels in respect from Slaughter and May.
of each position on an annual basis.
In addition the Committees The following people provided material advice, services or recommendations are sought in relation to remuneration assistance to the Committee, except in relation to their own proposals for designated senior management.
specic remuneration: Bonus Schemes John Robinson Chairman The Company has complied with Schedule A of the Combined Code covering performance related remuneration.
Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive The current UK based Executive Directors participate in an Anna Edgeworth Group HR Director annual cash based short-term incentive scheme which rewards current performance on the achievement of stretching financial James Jordan Group Company Secretary performance targets for the Group based on profit before tax.
Policy The targets are set by the Remuneration Committee.
Following The Company is committed to fostering a performance culture the review of peer group practices carried out by the Committee to increase shareholder value and to establishing George Wimpey in conjunction with Towers Perrin in 2002, the Directors target as a leading housebuilder in its competitive markets.
In line with annual bonus for 2004 will, as it was for 2003, be 40% of salary these aims, the Committee sets the remuneration packages of with a maximum bonus payable of 100%.
the Executive Directors at a level designed to attract, motivate Stewart Cline is a member of an annual cash bonus scheme which and retain high calibre executives, and to deliver high rewards only on attainment of demonstrably sustained superior corporate is specically tailored to the performance of Morrison Homes.
In line with with the outcome of the independent review performance.
This is achieved through a combination of salary, conducted by the Remuneration Committee in 2002, the maximum an annual performance bonus, share-based long term incentives and pension provision.
bonus that can be paid under the scheme to Mr Cline for 2004 is the same as it was for 2003, namely, 200% of his base salary.
The It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that a significant Scheme is based on targets relating to return on capital, operating proportion of each Executive Directors total compensation is margin, growth in operating profit and customer satisfaction.
delivered through performance related pay.
In xing base salary it is also the policy of the Remuneration Committee to reward its Bonus payments are not pensionable for any of the Executive Directors at a level equivalent to the median having Executive Directors.
regard to levels of remuneration within the housebuilding and Long Term Incentives other sectors.
The George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan The following chart shows the proportion of xed to performance The Company believes that the George Wimpey Long Term based remuneration.
Fixed remuneration comprises annual salary.
Incentive Plan George Wimpey LTIP is closely aligned to the 38 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Companys business strategy and the delivery of performance executives in Morrison Homes, including Stewart Cline, participate by key executives.
The George Wimpey LTIP is designed in the Morrison Homes LTIP which is a cash based scheme to lock-in key executives and motivate them through the pursuant to which units are awarded to each participant opportunity to earn significant financial rewards on the following the end of a financial year.
The value of each unit, achievement of demanding performance targets.
Awards and therefore the amount of cash that an individual receives, under the George Wimpey LTIP are made to a limited number will depend on growth in pre-tax and pre-interest earnings of key executives, including Executive Directors.
PBIT of Morrison Homes over that financial year.
The maximum value is achieved if PBIT grows by more than 30%.
The maximum value of any award under the George Wimpey The amount payable is, however, reduced progressively if LTIP is two times basic salary for 2002 only, awards equivalent to Morrison Homes Return on Assets RoA is less than 20%, three times basic salary were made but were set against more so that no amount is payable if RoA is less than 15%.
challenging performance targets as set out below.
Awards will not vest unless the pre-determined performance conditions are The value of the cash award is paid out over a 4 year period satisfied over a three year period the performance period.
commencing one year after the end of the relevant financial year, with 20% of the cash award being paid in each of the The performance condition measures the Companys total first 3 years of that period and the remaining 40% in the final shareholder return TSR over the three year performance period year of that period.
Interest is paid out on the unpaid part against a specic comparator group of public limited companies of the award at a current rate of 6%.
Certain executives of made up of 23 housebuilding and building materials related Morrison Homes, including Stewart Cline, also participate companies.
The Remuneration Committee believes that TSR is the in the George Wimpey LTIP and have received conditional most appropriate performance measure because it ensures that awards of shares under that scheme.
The Remuneration executives do not receive rewards under the George Wimpey Committee believes that participation in the George Wimpey LTIP unless the Company has outperformed relative to the LTIP and Morrison Homes LTIP will help to attract, motivate comparator group companies.
and retain high calibre executives to Morrison Homes, as 1 The comparator group for the George Wimpey LTIP is: well as ensure that a proportion of US senior executive pay is related to overall Group performance.
Awards under Baggeridge Brick Gleeson MJ Redrow the new Morrison Homes LTIP are scaled back for those Barratt Heywood Williams SIG executives participating in both plans.
Bellway John Laing Taylor Woodrow Sharesave Scheme Berkeley Kier Travis Perkins The Company operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme Bovis Marshalls Westbury which all UK staff including Executive Directors with over 6 BPB McCarthy & Stone Wilson Bowden months service are eligible to join.
Crest Nicholson Persimmon Wolseley Galliford Try Pilkington Performance Graph 1 Prowting Plc and Wilson Connolly Plc were taken over in 2002 and 2003 Set out below is a graph which shows the total shareholder respectively and are no longer included.
return of the Company between the period December 1998 to December 2003 as against the FTSE 250 excluding investment For awards to vest in full, the Companys TSR performance over companies, based on 30 trading day average values.
The Group the relevant performance period must equal or exceed the 75th believes that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate comparator index percentile performance as against the comparator group for against which to plot its total shareholder return performance awards made in 2002 the TSR performance must be equal to as the Company is a member of the index together with its key or exceed the 85th percentile.
No portion of the award will competitors and a broad cross section of leading companies.
The vest if the Companys TSR performance is less than the 50th graph also shows the performance of the Company as against percentile.
There will be partial vesting if the Companys TSR the George Wimpey LTIP comparator group see opposite.
performance is at least equal to the 50th percentile.
At that level of performance, awards made in 2002 will vest as to 20% and The graph shows the theoretical growth in the value of a 100 awards made subsequently will vest as to 25% and there will be shareholding over the specified period, assuming that dividends straight line vesting for levels of performance between the 50th are re-invested to purchase additional units of equity.
and 75th percentiles or the 85th percentile in the case of awards made in 2002.
In addition to this performance condition, there is a requirement that the Companys underlying performance, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, should be Total shareholder return satisfactory.
Awards under the George Wimpey LTIP are not pensionable.
Details of awards to Executive Directors are set 360 out in the table on page 43.
270 Following the introduction of the George Wimpey LTIP in 2002, 180 it is Company policy that Executive Directors should not 90 participate in the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Details of past awards to Executive Directors under this Scheme are disclosed in Dec 98 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 the table on page 42.
Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan George Wimpey Plc The Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan Morrison Homes George Wimpey LTIP comparator group LTIP was approved at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
Key FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 39 Remuneration Report continued Pensions The Remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is determined The UK-based Executive Directors and other designated managers by the Board.
Towers Perrin provide independent advice on are eligible to join the Executive section of the George Wimpey appropriate levels of remuneration.
Remuneration is paid in the Staff Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme is a funded, form of xed fees, which are reviewed annually.
Non Executive Inland Revenue approved, final salary occupational pension Directors are invited, but not obliged, to use any increase in their scheme and all members contribute 10% of salary.
Executive remuneration to purchase shares in the Company.
Neither the members cease to contribute once they have achieved 30 years Chairman nor the Non Executive Directors participate in any pensionable service.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to incentive or share schemes.
increase in line with the Retail Price Index to a maximum of Neither the Chairman nor the Non Executive Directors have 5% per annum.
The services of John Robinson, Michael The Scheme provides Executive members with a pension of Blackburn and Christine Cross are contracted to the Company up to two-thirds of pensionable salary on retirement at age 62, under consultancy agreements dated 5 April 2001, 1 April 2000 subject to the member having completed 30 years pensionable and 11 January 2004 respectively.
The agreements provide that service.
The Company provides Peter Johnson with a pension each Director will continue to serve the Company unless allowance by additional payments to him, amounting to 40% terminated by not less than 6 months notice is given by either 204,000 of his basic salary.
However, in the event that a Director is not re-elected as a Director by the Companys shareholders or is removed from receives a pension allowance amounting to 35% 99,750 of his basic salary.
A payment of 23,302 was paid into a US ofce by them in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, then the relevant agreement will terminate with cash plan for Mr Cline.
In addition, life assurance of four times basic salary and a pension of two-thirds of the members entitlement for spouses on their David Williams and Brenda Dean have letters of appointment which appoint them with effect from 1 May 2001 and 7 October death in service, or in retirement, are provided, together with a 2003 respectively.
These engagements continue until terminated childrens allowance of up to 100% of the dependants pension by not less than 6 months notice given by either party or otherwise for three or more children.
in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Pensionable salary excludes all bonuses, benets in kind and incentive related remuneration.
For early retirement, prior to age 62 and after age 50, pensions will be reduced by an appropriate actuarial factor.
The Directors accrued pensions in 2003 are shown on page 41.
Service Contracts Executive Directors It is the Companys policy that all Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts with a one year notice period in accordance with best practice.
The Companys normal retirement age for Executive Directors is 60 and the service contracts terminate automatically when this age is attained unless extended by mutual consent.
Peter Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke and Stewart Cline each have service contracts dated 26 March 2002, 27 March 2002 and 10 April 2003 respectively.
Each contract can be terminated by not less than 12 months notice either way.
The Company may, at its discretion, make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary and the cost of providing other benets under the contract for the period the contract would have continued.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Director may, within 6 months of such change, elect to terminate the service contract on 3 months notice and be paid a termination payment of the value of his annual remuneration and benets package not including any option grants.
The purpose of this change of control provision is to ensure that the Director is not disincentivised should such a situation so arise.
During 2003 Peter Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke and Stewart Cline agreed to vary their contract without compensation so as to reduce the amount of compensation that may be payable on a change of control from twice the value of their respective annual remuneration down to an amount equivalent to one years remuneration.
The Chairman Non Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility of setting the remuneration of the Chairman, which is then submitted to the Board for approval in the absence of the Chairman.
40 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 The following tables and accompanying notes constitute the auditable part of the Remuneration Report as dened in Part 3, Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985.
Stewart Clines other benets include a pension contribution of 23,302, a Company car allowance and healthcare benets.
2 The deferred bonus was paid under the Morrison Homes Long Term Compensation Plan, which was replaced during 2003 by the Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan as approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting and through the participation by Stewart Cline and certain other senior Morrison Homes executives in the George Wimpey LTIP subject to the scaling back of awards as explained on page 39.
Under the Morrison Homes Long Term Compensation Plan, units were granted annually at the beginning of the year and then valued at the end of that first year.
Payments to participants commence one year after the valuation of the units and conclude four years after the first year payment.
Stewart Clines current interest in the scheme amounts to $2,561,572.
No equity is involved in the Plan.
As reported last year, upon winding up of this plan, units previously awarded under the Plan have vested but will not become payable any earlier as a result of such vesting except in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
3 Keith Cushen resigned as a Director on 31 December 2003.
He will be engaged as a consultant to the Company providing 100 days of services per annum.
Keith Cushen will be paid 140,000 for his services calculated by reference to his outgoing salary and pro rated accordingly.
In addition, Keith Cushens 2002 LTIP award will partially vest as explained on page 43.
4 A payment of 36,441 was paid to Richard Saville in accordance with contractual obligations, agreed at the time of his departure in 2001.
This payment relates to a notional grant of an executive share option awarded to Richard Saville in 2001.
Details of Directors Accrued Pensions are as follows: Total Total Increase in Value of Increase in Transfer Value Transfer Value Pension Pension Accrued Increase in Transfer Value Net of Net of Directors Accrued Accrued Pension Accrued Net of Directors  3 as at as at in Year Pension Directors Contributions Contributions Paid During 31 12 02 p. a.
2 Keith Cushen retired on 31 December 2003 and elected to take a pension reduced for early retirement by 27,021 p. a.
In addition he has also commuted pension rights of 21,169 p. a. in return for a lump sum.
3 Figures are stated net of ination.
4 Represents the increase in accrued pension including the amount of pension commuted in return for a lump sum and after reecting the reduction in benefit due to early retirement.
In determining this amount, the total pension accrued as at 31 December 2002 was also reduced to reect early retirement at 31 December 2003.
5 The transfer value of 2,573,000 includes 272,650 of the tax free lump sum taken at 31 December 2003.
The treatment of Keith Cushen's pension arrangements are in accordance with the rules of the Scheme and no special augmentation of pension benets have been granted on retirement.
The only Director to exercise an option during 2003 was Peter Johnson who exercised 295,748 options under the Executive Share Option Scheme on 28 October 2003 at 135.25p.
The closing price on 28 October 2003 was 341.25p.
The performance condition for the George Wimpey Executive Share Option Plan is based on the Company attaining a total shareholder return performance level which is above median in a dened comparator group.
The group is the same group as that used for the LTIP and listed on page 39.
The mid-market close price as at 31 December 2003 was 373.25p and the range during 2003 was between 203p and 399p.
All options were granted at nil cost.
Keith Cushen resigned as a Director on 31 December 2003 and his options are carried into retirement in accordance with the rules of the Executive Share Option Scheme.
42 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Directors Interests in Conditional Shares Awarded under the George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan George Wimpey LTIP as at 31 December 2003 Conditionally Awarded Vested 16 05 2002 01 05 2003 Market value Market value Awards held at on award 285p on award 242p Number Date of Award 31 12 03 Executive Directors P M Johnson 613,636 410,027 1,023,663 A C P Carr-Locke 361,364 226,908 588,272 3 S M Cline 181,776 181,776 Former Directors 1 2 2 K M Cushen 409,091 262,736 lapsed 671,827 NOTES: The above awards will not vest in whole or in part unless pre-determined performance conditions are satisfied over a three year period.
The awards are therefore conditional awards and the table above sets out the maximum number of shares that can be awarded.
The performance conditions are explained in detail on pages 38 and 39.
Conditional awards were made on 1 May 2003 with a performance period of 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2005.
The number of awards was calculated by reference to a formula based on two times salary as at 1 January 2003 and using a price of 251.21p being the value calculated in accordance with the scheme rules.
For the 2002 award, for Peter Johnson and Andrew Carr-Locke, the formula was based on three times salary as at 1 January 2002 and using a share price of 220p being the value calculated in accordance with the scheme rules.
For Stewart Cline, the 2003 award was calculated by reference to a formula based on one and half times his salary as at 1 January 2003 and a share price of 220p.
1 Keith Cushen retired as a Director on 31 December 2003, two thirds through the three year performance period applicable to the the 2002 conditional award to him of 409,091 shares.
Taking into account Keith Cushens outstanding contribution to the Company, the Remuneration Committee resolved in 2003 that he should be awarded at the time of retirement an amount of shares equal to two thirds of his 2002 conditional award subject to the Companys TSR performance over that two year period as against its comparator group.
Based on independent verication, the Companys TSR performance over that period made it the highest ranking company within the comparator group see page 39 which thus entitled Keith Cushen to receive an amount equal to the full two thirds 272,727 shares which will be distributed to him by the employee trust in February 2004, outside the Companys close period.
The market value will be calculated by reference to the mid market closing price at that time.
The Remuneration Committee also resolved that, due to his outstanding contribution, subject to the Companys TSR performance during the period 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2004 i. e. the complete performance period a further distribution of the balance of Keith Cushens 2002 award a maximum of 136,364 shares may be made to Keith Cushen in 2005.
Any award made in this respect will be disclosed in the 2004 financial statements.
2 Keith Cushens 2003 conditional award of 262,736 shares lapsed in full upon his retirement on 31 December 2003, in accordance with the rules of the George Wimpey LTIP.
3 Stewart Clines LTIP was awarded on 9 May 2003 when the market value on award was 250.5p.
This report has been approved by the Board on 24 February 2004 and signed on its behalf by: MICHAEL BLACKBURN CHAIRMAN REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GEORGE WIMPEY PLC George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 43
