Holidaybreak plc CSR in Action CASE STUDY ONE CAMPING DIVISION CASE STUDY TWO EXPLORE WORLDWIDE Camping accommodation is non-permanent and Explore Worldwide view Responsible Tourism RT low-rise and energy consumption is low.
An as a core component of both its management and environmental audit has confirmed that it is a its operation.
The brand is a benchmark in relatively eco-friendly form of tourism.
responsible tourism having achieved the highest RT rating from AITO for both its environmental Explore Worldwide Aviation Director, Derek Moore, Our Camping Division sees a dependency on a accepts the highest Responsible Tourism award from management programme and its RT work in clean and healthy environment for both customer the Association of Independent Tour Operators AITO destinations.
In December 2003 Explore was also satisfaction and product reliability.
Customers presented with the AITO RT Award for its holistic and employees are made aware of environmental approach to Responsible Tourism, which was issues and asked to act with these in mind adjudged to run through all the company's through guides, manuals and training.
The business was Eurocamp has undertaken to support the recognised for the large number of countries in childrens charity Radio Lollipop for the next three which it has been involved in community projects, years and has donated cash, toys and organised and for the responsible tourism audits conducted fundraising events.
Holidays have been donated amongst its overseas suppliers and tour leaders.
for use as prizes for sick children and their By operating in smaller groups, Explore minimise parents.
Camping have also, in the past, recycled the impact on the local culture and resources, unwanted tents and equipment in co-operation whilst blending in more easily.
They use locally with various charitable agencies.
owned suppliers wherever viable to provide and run services, ensuring that local economies benefit directly.
Explore try wherever possible to make a positive The Board has agreed a policy and broad action Holidaybreak companies, who are members of contribution to the communities they visit.
A the Association of Independent Tour Operators plan which is currently being implemented to meet number of local initiatives to both empower local Eurocamp, Keycamp, Explore Worldwide and its corporate social responsibility objectives.
This people and discourage a state of dependency Regal Dive, will continue to support the includes: have been designed: Associations policy on Responsible Tourism RT.
A detailed internal assessment of our current - Supporting SOS Childrens Villages in Peru, which Explore Worldwide has already qualified for a top standing in relation to six key areas of corporate provides care for orphaned and abandoned three-star RT rating from the Association.
This social responsibility CSR : children will be a goal for the others.
Employees - Funding towards the construction of the Lynne Customers Holidaybreak companies to provide basic Nursery School in Chamgasa Village in Tanzania Human Rights Responsible Tourist advice to their customers.
Communities - Support for the Kutch Yuvak Sangh Trust in Board responsibility for management of our Suppliers Gujarat, India, part of a reconstruction Corporate Social Responsibility programme rests programme following the 2001 earthquake Environment with the Chief Executive, Richard Atkinson.
- Provide backing for the Sunshine project in An environmental review which will be divided Luxor, Egypt, providing a home, schooling and Each of the divisions has appointed named into two sections.
Our office based operations kindergarten for abandoned children managers who are responsible for will be subject to a detailed internal review implementation within their divisions.
Each - Member of the International Porters Protection facilitated by appropriately qualified external division will submit a report annually to the Group, safeguarding the interests of porters advisors.
For our holiday operations, we are Holidaybreak Board on CSR management.
Explore work in conjunction with Climate Care to employing external advisors to carry out a high offset the carbon emissions generated by all level environmental audit which reviews all our The Groups CSR risk profile and management office staff and tour leader flights, by contributing operations with the aim of identifying areas of will be reviewed by the Board on at least an to projects designed to reduce greenhouse gases.
particular risk or weakness and recommending annual basis.
Explore is a partner in the Know Before You Go Appropriate further action will be agreed campaign, working with the UKs Foreign and depending on the outcome of these audits.
Commonwealth Office in ensuring travellers have a safe and enjoyable holiday.
24 The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Companys Executive Directors.
In addition, it has a broader remit that includes Executive Director performance, career development and training requirements together with stewardship of the Companys share option schemes.
All current Executive Director contracts are on a rolling basis and subject to a twelve month notice Base Salary period.
In cases of early termination of contracts, In reviewing salaries, the Committee took into subject to legal constraints, the level of account the performance of the Directors and the compensation will be determined in accordance with businesses that they were responsible for, along with three principles: the expected general increase in salary levels for other employees.
Whilst reviewing salaries for the - Dealing fairly with the individual according to the Directors Remuneration year to 30 September 2004, the Committee referred Remuneration particular circumstances.
to a report on Executive Directors Remuneration in Report - Taking full account of the departing executives the Top 350 UK Listed Companies, published by The Remuneration Committee presents this report obligations to mitigate loss except in the case of New Bridge Street Consultants.
to shareholders on behalf of the Board.
the Group Chief Executive where there is no Performance Linked Bonus provision for mitigation and full contractual Membership The Committee believes that one year profit linked benefits are payable.
The Remuneration Committee currently consists of bonuses, based on performance relative to budget, the Companys three independent, Non-executive - The value of compensation on termination should are the most appropriate for the Group with longer Directors: not exceed the value of one years remuneration term performance rewarded through the regular package.
CH McLintock Chairman grant of share options.
In the case of Group profits, RJ Ayling Details of the service agreements of those directors headline earnings per share is considered the most JAS Wallace who retire by rotation at the 2004 Annual General appropriate benchmark and the bonuses of the Meeting are given on page 20.
HA Crichton-Miller was a member of the Committee Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director until his resignation as a Director on 31 May 2003. are linked entirely to this measure.
Bonuses for the Share Schemes During the period from 1 October 2002 up to the other Executive Directors are linked both to headline Holidaybreak operates two Executive share option date of publication of this report the Committee has earnings per share and to Divisional operating schemes.
The Committee believes that share not used the services of outside advisers.
profit, with an approximate 30% weighting to the options are an important element in the former and 70% to the latter.
A cash bonus of remuneration packages for both the Executive Remuneration Policy 35% of base salary is payable on achievement of Directors and other senior employees.
The Executive Director remuneration packages consist of budget targets.
For the year to 30 September 2004 Committees view is that, in general, a moderate various components: the bonus will increase in stages to 100% of base number of options should be granted on a Basic salary salary if budget targets are exceeded by 15%.
A consistent and regular basis with the ability to Performance linked bonus bonus of 20% will be payable on achievement of exercise these options being linked to performance Pension contributions 95% of budget.
Lower bonuses are payable for and their value dependent on share price Share options reaching 93.5% and 92% of budget.
There is no performance since the date of grant.
Private healthcare insurance Current policy is to grant options annually to a Life assurance Pension Contributions value equivalent to one years salary to each of the Permanent health insurance The Company operates contributory money purchase Executive Directors and 75% of salary to Divisional pension schemes for the benefit of its executives Directors.
Options are exercisable on a rolling five A review of remuneration policy is set out below.
In all cases, basic salary year basis, subject to the achievement of predefined Scope and Objectives only is pensionable.
Executives are able to increase levels of headline earnings per share growth in Attracting, retaining and motivating directors and pension contributions through salary sacrifice and excess of the increase in RPI.
Real headline senior management of appropriate calibre and benefit from a portion of the savings in National earnings per share growth is considered to be the experience is essential to the Companys future Insurance charges.
Pension contributions on behalf most appropriate performance measure and it also success.
The Remuneration Committees primary of Executive Directors are 15% of base salary, before has the merit of being an easily applied benchmark.
objective is to ensure that remuneration policy any salary sacrifice element.
Equal in value grants are made shortly after the supports this objective whilst avoiding unwarranted companys Preliminary and Interim Results Service Agreements cost.
announcements The Companys policy is that Executive Director service agreements should have a maximum notice period of one year.
The Committee regards the stipulated notice periods for its Executive Directors to be of mutual benefit.
25 Holidaybreak plc Other senior employees, who are not Executive or Conditions for earlier grants vary in some cases.
2001 Approved Company Share Option Plan Divisional Directors, may also be granted Executive Options granted prior to 12 January 2000 must be This scheme is subject to a 30,000 limit on the share options on a discretionary basis.
For these to exercised within seven years of date of grant and value of options that may be granted to an be exercisable, three year performance targets options granted before 29 January 2002 are individual employee, in order to qualify for Inland relative to real headline earnings per share growth exercisable provided that growth in headline Revenue approval.
In any one year such grants will earnings per share meets the 6% above RPI criterion To be exercisable, options must normally be held for amount to approximately 30% of all options over any consecutive three year period from date of at least three years and have met their performance granted.
They must be exercised within ten years of In addition to its two Executive share option Grants of B options are made to the Executive the date of grant.
For all participants, it is the schemes, Holidaybreak operates a Savings Related Directors and a limited number of other senior Remuneration Committees current policy to grant Scheme and also has two share incentive plans, executives on a regular, annual basis.
Performance options subject to pre-defined performance criteria although these are no longer actively used.
criteria are significantly more demanding than for A being satisfied.
In the case of Executive and Information on the schemes is given below.
For B options to be exercisable, the Divisional Directors growth in headline earnings per of the total number of shares under option are given increase in headline earnings per share over a fixed share over a fixed five year period, commencing on in note 18 to the financial statements p45 whilst five year period commencing on the first day of the the first day of the financial year in which the grant details of options currently held by Executive financial year in which the grant takes place, must takes place, must be at least 15% above the Directors are shown below.
be at least 15% above RPI growth over that period.
increase in RPI over the same period.
For other B Options must be exercised within ten years of employees, growth in headline earnings per share The issue of new shares to satisfy share option date of grant.
B options granted on or before 27 must be at least 6% above RPI over a fixed three grants is limited by the rules of the various schemes, year period.
December 2000 are subject to performance which restrict the level of total grants to a preconditions in which growth in headline earnings per determined percentage of share capital within The Companys policy has been to offer Executive share must be at least 10% above growth in RPI specified timescales.
Where necessary, the Company share options fairly widely to senior and middle over a fixed five year period.
acquires additional shares on the open market to management.
Currently, 66 employees holding satisfy the grant of share options which it wishes to Currently, 49 employees holding 367,249 A options 425,190 options are participating in this and the make.
With the exception of the Savings Related are participating in the scheme and 20 employees previous Inland Revenue approved scheme.
A Scheme, share options are not granted at a discount hold 1,330,004 B options.
563,688 scheme further 1,084,467 options have been exercised by to market value.
options have been exercised by 31 employees since 59 employees since the original schemes inception its inception.
2001 Savings Related Share Option Scheme This is an Inland Revenue approved scheme whereby 1996 Unapproved Share Option Scheme 1997 Long Term Incentive Plan and 1997 UK employees are able to enter into a three or five This scheme was introduced to allow the Company Employee Incentive Plan year savings contract with a maximum monthly to grant options that exceed the 30,000 value The 1997 LTIP and EIP schemes have, in the past, savings amount of 250 and a minimum of 5.
On been used to facilitate effective and tax efficient limit applied to Inland Revenue approved schemes.
maturity of the savings contract, which is linked to operation of Executive Directors performance linked The scheme provides for two types of option A and an option to purchase Holidaybreak shares, the bonus schemes, a portion of the bonuses being paid B.
Over a ten year period A options up to a employee is able to exercise the options.
There are in shares held as nil cost options LTIP or shares combined value of four times salary or in the case of no performance criteria relating to this scheme.
Neither scheme is currently being B options up to a combined value of eight times actively used.
salary can be granted under the scheme rules.
All UK based permanent employees are offered the Grants made under other executive and other opportunity to participate in this scheme at least On 1 October 2002, following the end of a threediscretionary schemes will reduce the total number once each year with the option price, which is 20% year holding period, 10,949 shares held within the of options that can be granted.
below the prevailing market rate, set at the Employee Incentive Plan were transferred absolutely commencement of the savings contract.
Currently, To be exercisable, A options must be held for at to five of the Executive Directors.
There are 290 employees holding a total of 415,766 options least three years and are subject to performance currently no shares held in trust under the Employee are participating in this and the previous 1991 measurement over a fixed three year period, Incentive Plan.
In the case of the Long Term Scheme.
A further 600,177 options have been Incentive Plan 8,532 shares remain in trust, commencing on the first day of the financial year in exercised by 218 employees since the introduction of although performance conditions have been which the grant takes place.
Growth in headline the original scheme in 1991. satisfied.
These may be transferred to five of the earnings per share must be at least 6% above the Executive Directors at any time up to 22 December increase in RPI over the same period.
Options must 2004. be exercised within ten years of date of grant.
26 AUDITED INFORMATION 2003 Remuneration Remuneration in respect for the year to 30 September 2003 was as follows: Gain on Performance Exercise Salaries Taxable Related of share Pension Total Total Fees Benefits Bonus Options Contribution 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 PERFORMANCE GRAPHS Executive: The graphs below show the Total Shareholder Return RW Atkinson 234 18 - 9 35 296 287 349 335 attributable to Holidaybreak plc shares over the past RG Baddeley 127 14 - - 19 160 160 540 193 five financial years compared with what the JR Crew 169 13 - 31 38 251 220 321 249 Committee believes to be the most appropriate NP Cust 108 10 33 42 75 268 226 267 208 benchmarks, the FTSE Mid-cap 250 index, with MC Wray 108 12 41 65 67 293 228 327 208 investment trusts excluded, and the FTSE Leisure SJ Tobin 128 14 - - 19 161 161 211 157 and Hotels index.
Holidaybreak FTSE Leisure & Hotels 400 Pension contributions for six directors 2002- six directors were paid to money purchase schemes.
300 No emoluments have been waived by the directors 2002- 10,250 During the year the highest paid director received emoluments, excluding pension contributions, of 388,000 200 2002 - 522,000.
100 0 DIRECTORS' SHARE OPTIONS Oct 1998 Oct 1999 Oct 2000 Oct 2001 Oct 2002 Oct 2003 Summary of options granted and exercised during the year table excludes underwater options as at 30 September 2003 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Options Granted Exercised Options Weighted REMUNERATION held on during during held on average For Non-executive Directors other than the 30 Sept 02 the year the year 30 Sept 03 option price Chairman, fees are reviewed annually.
Proposals are RW Atkinson 178,935 24,995 2,857 201,073 370.0p made to the Board following consultation between RG Baddeley 115,492 12,725 - 128,217 346.5p the Chief Executive and Chairman.
The service MC Wray 127,944 13,473 25,000 116,417 358.8p agreements for the other Non-executive Directors, CH McLintock and JAS Wallace, are also for fixed The following options were underwater as at 30 September 2003: terms, expiring on 31 December 2004 and 30 April Options Granted Exercised Options Option held on during during held at Price 2005 respectively with three months notice 30 Sept 02 the year the year 30 Sept 03 stipulated in the case of the Directors resignation.
