DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations which introduced new statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors remuneration, and to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to directors remuneration set out in the Combined Code.
The Regulations require the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within the Directors Remuneration Report the Report and to state whether in their opinion, that part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
Their opinion is set out on page 57 and those aspects of the Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked.
Remuneration Committee The Board considers itself ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration, but has delegated responsibility for determining the remuneration levels and conditions of service for Executive Directors of the Company and Group senior executives to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups overall philosophy that all employees should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management with the Groups strategic business goals.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The members of the Committee throughout the year were: Mr I J G Napier chairman : Mr D C Bonham: Mr S Huismans: Dr P H Jungels.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
However, he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
The Committee sets the remuneration package for each senior executive after taking advice principally from external sources including remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin and Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow, who were appointed by the Committee.
Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow were appointed during the year to review the Groups principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Executive remuneration surveys published by Monks Partnership and William M Mercer are also used to assist in the benchmarking process.
Mr G Davis, Chief Executive, Mr R C Hannaford, Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee and Mr D P Cuthbert, Group Compensation and Benefits Manager, also provide internal support and advice.
The Committee, which operates under clear written terms of reference, confirms formally that its constitution and operation comply with the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and has applied the principles in Section 1 of that Code throughout the year.
Remuneration strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in an increasingly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees, at all levels, across the Group.
The Group therefore sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in those countries in which it operates.
As the Group continues to develop internationally and integrate acquisitions, it is having increasing regard to the need to relocate employees from country to country as the requirements of the business dictate, and develop its remuneration arrangements accordingly.
The remuneration strategy is therefore designed, not only to align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity, but also to support the Groups corporate strategy, as a significant contributor to its competitive advantage.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group - with a timely pay review process, consistently applied to all employees and well communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood with links to corporate performance recognised - is seen as critical in ensuring all employees can associate with and buy into the attainment of the Groups strategic goals.
The Group also seeks to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees opportunities and encouragement to build up a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of share plan initiatives, under the UK Sharesave Scheme, the International Sharesave Plan and Share Matching arrangements, the majority of eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in equity-based plans with a significant number taking advantage of the invitations.
Executive remuneration policy The remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior executives, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, is intended to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
The package is also in line with the Groups overall policy on pay and benefits and, as the Group extends its business internationally, it takes account of market practices outside the UK where the scope of a particular executives role warrants this approach.
ITG 45 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Executive remuneration policy continued The ongoing policy combines short-term and long-term rewards, including performance-related elements that take into account individual, business unit and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, an annual cash bonus, a Share Matching Scheme SMS, a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and pension benefits, with a significant weighting towards performance-related variable reward elements.
In the current year base salary typically represented around a third of total remuneration, for those Directors who served throughout the year, with annual bonus and awards vesting under SMS and LTIP schemes making up around two-thirds of total pay.
This policy is set to provide base salary at the median level of its comparator group, while providing the Directors with the capacity to earn upper quartile total cash compensation on a superior performance basis.
Percentage of Total Remuneration Mr G Davis Mr R Dyrbus Mr D Cresswell Dr F A Rogerson 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Salary Benefits Bonus SMS LTIP Note: Mr D Cresswell and Dr F A Rogerson were appointed during the year, after vesting of their SMS and LTIP awards in January 2003.
In order to continue to meet corporate governance best practice, for the financial year to September 2004 more stringent performance criteria will be applied to the performance-related elements as detailed in the LTIP section on page 50 which forms part of this policy statement.
In addition, it is proposed that, in advance of the expiry of authority for the Groups existing share schemes, a comprehensive review of executive remuneration will be undertaken during 2004 and, where appropriate, shareholder approval sought at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Base salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by reference to individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
Therefore it is set within a range around the market median for similar sized, publicly quoted companies to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen is the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual cash bonus For each financial year to September 2003, Executive Directors could earn annual bonuses up to a maximum of two-thirds base salary, by reference to performance against financial targets determined by the Committee.
During the period under review, bonus targets related principally to the achievement of Group profit objectives.
Performance in the year has resulted in bonuses as detailed in the table on page 49 being awarded.
A cash bonus was also earned by other senior executives for achieving performance targets for the year to 30 September 2003.
For the year to 30 September 2004, bonus performance criteria will again relate to Group profit growth, however the specific targets are not disclosed since they are considered to be commercially confidential.
To align the Executive Directors bonuses more closely to market levels, the 2 3 potential maximum bonus has been increased from 66 per cent to 100 per cent for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
However, attainment of these increased bonus levels is subject to achievement of stretching, incremental profitbased performance criteria.
Under the Share Matching Scheme, Executive Directors and management may elect to invest any proportion up to a maximum of 100 per cent of their gross bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided that the shares lodged are left in the Trust for three years the participant will receive the original shares plus additional shares equal in number to the original shares.
In respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS from their bonus payable in December 2003, a performance criterion will now be applied to the matched shares such that matching will only occur if the Group has achieved an average of 3 per cent real increase in EPS per annum over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery.
It will be based upon the same protocol as that applying to the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
There will be no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met.
Benefits The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of cars and health insurance, but in the case of Mr M A Hussler also included relocation costs associated with his move to the UK.
ITG 46 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration from other Non-Executive Directorships The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to retain any fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorships.
Any serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
During the year Mr G Davis was appointed to the Board of Wolseley plc and currently receives fees of 33,000 per annum.
Executive Directors Service contracts It is the Groups policy to appoint Executive Directors under service agreements terminable by either party giving 52 weeks notice, as shown in the table below.
There are no predetermined provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements.
However, the Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and generally believes that severance arrangements should be restricted to basic pay and consequential payments such as earned bonus and pension accrual.
Nevertheless, the circumstances of the termination and the individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss would be taken into account.
Under the rules of the LTIP and Share Matching Scheme outstanding awards vest on termination on a time-related pro-rata basis.
If, however, the termination is by resignation or dismissal for misconduct, the full award lapses.
Date of contract Expiry date Executive Directors G Davis, Chief Executive 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice R Dyrbus, Finance Director 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice 1 M A Hussler, Sales and Marketing Director 19 December 2002 Note D Cresswell, Manufacturing Director 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice F A Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice B C Davidson, Sales and Marketing Director appointed 1 October 2003 1 October 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice 1.
Before Mr Husslers resignation as a Director, the Remuneration Committee had exceptionally agreed that the requisite notice period at the commencement of his appointment was 104 weeks.
This was reducing at the rate of two weeks per calendar month until such time as the notice period reached 52 weeks.
The initial longer notice period on first appointment was deemed essential to retain his services, which involved him in international relocation and foregoing the five-year fixed term contract he enjoyed within the Reemtsma Group of companies.
The arrangement matched the notice period arrangements granted to Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs Directors upon Listing in 1996.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
However, the terms of their appointments are reviewed annually and upon them reaching 65 years of age.
These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on 3 February 2003 and in respect of Mr A G L Alexander again on 2 May 2003 following his 65th birthday.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company Non-Executive Directors stand for reappointment at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment, are subject to triennial reappointment by shareholders and retire at the Annual General Meeting following their reaching 70 years of age.
There are no provisions in their letters of appointment regarding notice periods or compensation on early termination.
Although there is no current maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is currently considering adopting the best practice provisions outlined in the Higgs Report.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their own remuneration.
They receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their Directorship of the Company and provision of administration support including the use of Company offices by the Chairman and Vice Chairman and do not participate in the Companys share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
To align further the interest of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders it was agreed that a proportion of their fees be applied, after tax, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
These shares are to be held by a nominee during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship.
Exceptionally in respect of Mr D C Bonham and Mr A G L Alexander, this provision has been waived due to their substantial shareholdings detailed on page 50.
Mr S Huismans is, and Mr L W Staby was, until his resignation, a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which they received additional remuneration.
Remuneration arrangements for former Directors Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001, runs for four years to June 2004.
Under the terms of the agreement he provides consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days services for each 12 month period ending on 30 June.
Mr S T Painter is also entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
ITG 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration arrangements for former Directors continued Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he receives additional remuneration.
Following the acceptance by the Board, on 9 July 2003, of the resignation of Mr L W Staby, it was agreed that his remuneration continue until the expiry of this term of office on 1 February 2004.
Similarly the Company has agreed that remuneration attributable to his duties on the Supervisory Board of Reemtsma companies will continue to be paid on a similar basis.
On 14 January 2003, following the successful attainment of LTIP performance criterion, Mrs S Inston, the widow of Mr C A C Inston, was granted shares under the Companys LTIP.
Subsequent to his resignation as a Director of the Company with effect from 9 July 2003, Mr M A Hussler remains an employee receiving his full contractual remuneration.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2003 audited 2003 2002 000 000 Executive Directors Salary 1,444 1,021 Benefits 141 26 Bonus 955 680 1 LTIP annual vesting 937 649 1 LTIP vesting on retirement 0 376 2 SMS vesting 902 839 4,379 3,591 Non-Executive Directors Fees 457 362 Benefits 5 4 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 41 10 503 376 Former Directors Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 100 128 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 23 5 Salary of former Executive Director 86 0 Bonus 56 0 Benefits 2 0 LTIP vesting on retirement 5 0 272 133 Fees of Former Non-Executive Directors Company 8 0 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 5 0 13 0 Total remuneration 5,167 4,100 1.
Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year, based on the closing share price on the day of vesting.
Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the closing share price on the day of vesting.
Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a Company car and health insurance.
LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year both on annual vesting and retirement.
Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
Mr M A Hussler and Mr L W Staby resigned from the Board on 9 July 2003.
Mr C A C Inston retired on grounds of ill-health on 14 December 2001.
Mr D Cresswell and Dr F A Rogerson were appointed to the Board on 1 June 2003.
Benefits in kind include relocation assistance of 102,000 in respect of Mr M A Hussler.
Base salary of Mr M A Hussler includes the payment of a pension allowance of 14,000 which is neither eligible for bonus nor share schemes and is not pensionable.
No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.
Mr B C Davidson was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2003 at a base salary of 300,000 per annum with the same terms and notice period as Mr D Cresswell and Dr F A Rogerson.
Or date of appointment if later 2.
Or date of resignation if earlier Apart from the dividend reinvestment in respect of the PEPs of Mr S P Duffy there have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2003.
Executive share retention To ensure the interests of management remain aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior executives are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines by building a stake in the Group to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to twice their base salary.
At a more junior level, executives are expected to invest at a level equivalent to their base salary.
These levels will be reviewed as part of the remuneration review planned for 2004.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Each year since demerger in 1996, annual awards, worth 75 per cent of basic salary, have been made to Executive Directors under the LTIP.
The awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of an applicable performance criterion, as set out below, over a threeyear performance period.
It is anticipated that a further conditional award worth 75 per cent of basic salary will be made during November 2003.
The performance criterion, imposed on awards made under the LTIP up to and including December 1999, was based on a sliding scale depending on total shareholder return TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of the award occurred unless the Companys total shareholder return exceeds that of 50 per cent of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of the provisional award vested.
If the return exceeds 80 per cent of the Index, the award vested in full.
Between these thresholds the award vested on a straight-line basis.
The TSR calculations use share prices averaged over a month to determine initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is also assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared exdividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result since improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
The TSR calculations themselves have been performed independently by Alithos Limited appointed by the Company but who perform no other services for the Group and were approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The final award which was based on the TSR performance criterion, vested in January 2003.
On vesting a participant is granted a nil cost option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
The Committee recognises that it is never easy to set meaningful long-term performance targets in a rapidly changing business environment and in the context of volatile stock markets.
The Committee therefore regularly reviews the appropriateness of the performance conditions under the LTIP to ensure they remain demanding, yet realistic, and effectively incentivise participants to perform at the highest level.
In December 2000, in consultation with Towers Perrin, it was decided that total shareholder return no longer represented the most appropriate performance criterion for measuring future performance.
For the December 2000 and future awards, the Committee replaced total shareholder return with earnings per share EPS growth as the new performance criterion.
This was seen as enhancing the incentive effect of the Plan by focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and executives have power to influence, rather than linking awards to a volatile share price unduly influenced by short-term sector sentiment.
The Committee nevertheless retains absolute discretion to ensure that the EPS performance criterion fully reflects the underlying performance of the Group before any awards vest, including maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
ITG 50 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS based on an agreed protocol to allow appropriate adjustments for amortisation, exceptional and extraordinary items.
The adjustments are confirmed by the Auditors after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
No vesting occurs unless the Companys average real EPS growth is positive.
Full vesting occurs if real EPS growth is equal to or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.
In order to ensure that performance criterion remains challenging for the proposed award, in 2003 and for future awards vesting will only occur if the average real EPS growth exceeds 3 per cent per annum.
The upper threshold of 10 per cent real EPS growth will remain unchanged.
There is no opportunity to retest if the performance criterion is not achieved.
The total shareholder return over the period exceeded that of all the FTSE 100 companies, thereby exceeding the performance of the bottom 80 of the FTSE 100 Index, the threshold at which the award maximised.
In respect of the November 2000 November 2003 award, based on earnings per share to the end of the financial year, 100 per cent of the award will vest on 27 November 2003.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 13 November 2003, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 10.085 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting no.
of shares Award vesting Award lapsing over which illustrative no.
of shares options granted value 000 G Davis 61,871 624 R Dyrbus 38,214 385 D Cresswell 12,131 122 F A Rogerson 12,939 130 The value of any awards vesting could vary significantly from the above due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2001 November 2004 and the November 2002 November 2005 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of these awards, earnings per share have grown by more than 10 per cent in real terms in the financial year and therefore, if this performance is maintained over the relevant performance periods both awards would vest in full.
Evidence of the Groups sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below.
Total return indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 250 200 150 100 50 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and most widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance of the Company which is a constituent of that index.
Share Matching Scheme SMS Centenary Scheme To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to 3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided these shares are left in the Trust, the lodged shares will be matched on a sliding scale from 20 per cent for one years retention to a maximum of 100 per cent if they are retained for five years.
Annual Scheme As detailed under Annual cash bonus on page 46, the Scheme also allows Executive Directors and most of the Groups management to take their bonus in shares, which are matched 1:1 over a three-year period.
The Executive Directors rights to shares arising under both SMS schemes are set out on page 53.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in 2001 2002, the Executive Directors elected to take the majority of their bonus in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by the Employee Benefit Trust under the Scheme.
These will be matched with additional shares, equal in number to the original shares, provided they are left in the Trust for three years.
These additional shares are shown within contingent rights above.
In respect of Directors holding office at the year-end, there have been no further changes since 30 September 2003.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2003 was 9.81and the range of the middle market price during the year was 9.09 to 11.10.
ITG 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Share options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savings-related Sharesave Scheme.
Under this Scheme, options are granted at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing middle market price on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
Aggregate gains during the year 27,735 2002: 29,916.
There have been no changes since 30 September 2003.
Full details are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.
ITG 54 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Employee Benefit Trust The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the share matching and performance-related share awards.
As potential beneficiaries of the Employee and Executive Benefit Trust, each of the Executive Directors is deemed to have a contingent interest in the 801,838 ordinary shares of the Company held by that Trust at 30 September 2003.
The Companys policy has always been, and continues to be, to satisfy all awards under its share schemes from market purchased shares through the Trust.
The Trust Deed and the rules of all schemes contain provisions limiting awards to 5 per cent in 5 years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee schemes with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive schemes.
Currently an aggregate of only 0.9 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to awards under the Groups share schemes.
Directors pensions The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002, the fund is non-contributory and fully funded with a normal retirement age of 60.
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age after 32 years service.
For members joining on or after 1 April 2002 New Members, including Mr M A Hussler, employee contributions of 5 per cent of pensionable salary are payable, the normal retirement age is 65 and maximum pension is achieved after 40 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted within Inland Revenue limits.
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds half for New Members of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds half for New Members of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependant children will also receive allowances.
Other than for New Members, whose pensions after retirement increase by the lesser of 5 per cent and the increase in the general index of retail prices RPI, pensions increase by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in RPI, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension for pension increases in line with the general index of retail prices of up to 15 per cent.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60 except Mr M A Hussler, whose normal retirement age is 63.
In addition to the pension arrangement above, Mr M A Husslers service contract contains a provision that he will receive a similar benefit to that he would have received had he remained in his former Reemtsma plan.
Under his former, non-contributory, plan he would have received 42 per cent of his final salary upon retirement at age 63.
Upon retirement Mr M A Hussler will receive his accrued pension from the Reemtsma plan and the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
The Company has undertaken to provide for any shortfall between the pensions payable from the above plans and the agreed benefit.
The Company has been advised by its actuary that the estimated actuarial present value of this shortfall will be in the order of 1.2 million.
In previous years, details of Directors pension benefits have been reported in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
However, the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 have introduced the requirement to disclose additional information for Directors pension benefits under defined benefit schemes.
The following table provides the information required on both bases and gives details for each Director of: the annual accrued pension payable from normal retirement age, calculated as if he had left service at the year end: the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11.
None of the Directors have made additional voluntary contributions.
ITG 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors pensions continued audited Disclosures required under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Increase Age at Pensionable Accrued pension Transfer value in accrued Transfer 30 9 03 service at 000 of accrued pension 000 pension value years 30 9 03 at Increase at at Increase Directors at net of of years 29 9 02 during 30 9 03 29 9 02 during the contribution 30 9 03 inflation increase the year year net of during the net of Directors year inflation contributions 000 000 G Davis 53 31 369 34 403 3,822 968 4,790 23 283 R Dyrbus 50 21 149 23 172 1,234 437 1,671 19 184 M A Hussler 57 13 96 14 110 769 365 10 1,144 14 137 1 1 D Cresswell 58 41 107 33 140 1,719 767 2,486 20 355 1 1 F A Rogerson 50 26 92 30 122 757 414 1,171 16 157 1.
The increase in accrued pension disclosed under the requirements of the Listing Rules in respect of Mr D Cresswell and Dr F A Rogerson has been calculated over the period since their appointment to the Board on 1 June 2003.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
