28 Corporate governance continued Board report on remuneration Introduction Towers Perrin provided advice to the Committee throughout The Remuneration Committee the Committee has formal 2003, having been appointed as advisers in December 2002.
Terms of Reference revised to comply with the new Combined Towers Perrin did not provide any other consulting services Code.
It is responsible for recommending to the Board the to the Company of a material nature.
During the year, the Companys policy on executive remuneration.
It is also responsible Committee has been advised internally by Peter Johnson, Group for determining specic remuneration packages and terms of Chief Executive, Roy Williams, Group Company Secretary and employment, including pension rights, for Executive Directors Nick Smith, Group Human Resources Director.
No executive and certain other senior executives.
This includes agreeing attended any Remuneration Committee meeting where his own performance incentive arrangements and approving allocations remuneration was discussed.
under any long term incentive arrangements, including executive These external and internal sources of advice and data, share options.
together with consideration of the levels of pay increases for In 1999, at the time Inchcape became a pure automotive other employees and the remuneration policy outlined below, services group, the Committee agreed to review its remuneration provide a framework for the decision making process.
The Committee decided to undertake Remuneration policy this review in 2003, a year early, because it believed that it was In reviewing its remuneration policy and practice in 2003, important for the Companys remuneration policy to continue to the Committee was guided by the following principles: support its business strategy and to allow the Company to motivate and retain its executive team and, where necessary, the package should be competitive i. e. at or around recruit executives of high quality.
The changes that are proposed median when compared with those in organisations of similar following this review are described in detail under each element size, complexity and type: of remuneration in the body of this report and also in the Circular there should be a clear link between the level of to shareholders.
Resolutions to approve this report, amendments remuneration and the performance of the Group and the individual, to the rules of the long term incentive plans and the SAYE Share to the extent that performance related elements should form a Option Scheme and the extension of the SAYE scheme for a significant part of executives total remuneration package: further period will be put to shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting AGM.
the interests of the shareholders should be safeguarded by Throughout 2003 the Company complied with the provisions aligning the remuneration package of the executives with of Schedule A of the 1998 Combined Code relating to the design shareholders interests: of performance related remuneration.
In preparing this report the the package as a whole should be easy to understand and Board has followed the provisions of Schedule B of the 1998 motivating for the individual: and Combined Code.
The Company is aware of the requirements introduced in the new Combined Code and will review its the composition of the package should reect best practice compliance throughout 2004, with additional disclosures being among comparable companies.
made in its next Annual report and accounts.
The contents of this The Committee believes that performance related elements report also comply with the Directors Remuneration Report should form a significant part of executives total remuneration Regulations 2002. package.
The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors Committee operation are made up of both xed and variable elements as described The members of the Committee during 2003 were Hugh Norton below.
In broad terms, and subject to shareholder approval of the Chairman, Sir John Egan, Simon Robertson and Ken Hanna.
changes to the long term incentive plans, if the Group meets its They are all Non-executive and regarded as independent of the target levels of performance, the expected value of the variable management of the Company in accordance with the 1998 elements will account for approximately 45.0% 50.0% of the Combined Code.
All members served on the Committee Executive Directors total remuneration and, if the Group achieves throughout the year.
The participation of Sir John Egan on the outstanding results, approximately 60.0% 65.0%.
If target Committee has been reviewed in light of provisions in the new performance levels are not met, then no pay out would be made Combined Code.
While Sir John Egan will continue to attend under the incentive plans.
Total remuneration for these purposes meetings, he ceased to be a member of the Committee with comprises base salary, annual bonus and long term incentives.
Michael Wemms, who joined the Board on 29 January 2004, was appointed as a member of the Committee on that date.
He will succeed Hugh Norton as Chairman of the Committee upon Hugh Nortons retirement at the conclusion of the 2004 AGM.
The Committee has an annual meeting to review the compensation arrangements for each Executive Director and certain other senior executives, in advance of the annual salary review on 1 April.
During 2003, the Committee held two scheduled meetings and other ad hoc meetings as necessary.
The Committee has authority from the Board to obtain the services of external independent advisers, as it may require.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 29 The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors are The Committee concluded during the 2003 remuneration made up of the following elements: review that share options remain the most appropriate primary long term incentive vehicle for the Company due to its continued Base salary focus on growth.
However, changes to the operation of the Base salaries are set by the Committee, taking into account the performance condition are proposed to ensure that the operation individuals level of responsibility, experience, and performance, of the Plan is in line with current best practice.
along with salary levels in comparable companies.
In the course The exercise of each share option previously granted under of the review of its remuneration arrangements in 2003, the the Plan was subject to a performance target, whereby growth in Committee updated its comparator group, which is now made Company earnings per share EPS over a three year period had up of twenty five general industry companies, almost all being to exceed the increase in the UK Retail Price Index RPI over the companies in the FTSE mid 250 index.
Those companies were same period by 3.0% per annum.
The Committee proposes chosen because they are of a similar size and complexity that options granted after the 2004 AGM and beyond will vest measured in terms of revenues, market capitalisation, according to a sliding scale: 25.0% of the award will vest if EPS employee numbers and international scope as the Company.
growth of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial Base salary is the only element of remuneration which three year period, with all of the award vesting if EPS growth is is pensionable.
Awards will vest on a stepped line basis Annual bonus between these two points.
None of the award will vest if EPS During 2003 the Executive Directors participated in a bonus plan growth is less than RPI 3.0% per annum.
There will be based solely on profit before tax, which yields a bonus of 30.0% no re-testing.
of base salary if target performance is achieved and higher The Committee believes that these EPS targets are payments for performance above target to a maximum of 70.0% signicantly more demanding than previously, and has taken of base salary.
Peter Johnson and Alan Ferguson received a bonus into account both external and internal earnings expectations of 60.0% of their salaries, as the Group signicantly exceeded of performance.
The Committee has retained EPS as the its targets.
Graeme Potts received a target bonus based on the performance measure to ensure that Executive Directors only performance of the businesses he is responsible for.
The actual receive rewards if there is significant and sustained improvement bonuses paid for 2003 are shown in the table on page 32. in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
EPS will The Committee reviewed the level and structure of the bonus plan continue to be the Headline earnings per ordinary share as shown for its Executive Directors as part of the 2003 review.
As a result, in the Companys reported accounts as this provides an it intends to make the following changes to the bonus plan: independently veriable measure.
In exceptional circumstances, in order to remain competitive with peer companies, the the Committee has the right to adjust the published EPS, as it Chief Executives target bonus will change to 40.0% of base salary considers appropriate.
If this were to be the case, any adjustment for 2004 with a corresponding maximum of 90.0% of base salary.
would be disclosed in this report.
No change in target or maximum levels is proposed for the other Following the review in 2003 the Committee intends to make Executive Directors: annual grants of two times base salary, with the Committee taking into account the Executive Directors and the Companys the Committee is keen to develop and introduce an performance.
This increase in grant level is necessary to bring the additional quantiable performance measure for the Executive Companys long term incentive provision in line with the market.
Directors to supplement profit before tax.
A suitable measure is Grants in excess of the two times limit may be required in the being developed and tested in 2004, for probable introduction in future in the event of new hires or developments in market 2005: and practice.
Therefore the Committee also proposes, subject to in 2004 measurement of the bonus of the Managing shareholder approval, to increase the maximum allowable annual Director, Inchcape UK and Europe, will be against Group grant level in the Plan rules to four times base salary to give it performance alone.
The combined effect of the changes to the design of the Plan Executive share options described above is to ensure that the Plan is signicantly more The Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan Plan was approved by performance linked in the future than previously.
Under the Plan, share options are granted to Executive Directors and certain other senior executives throughout the Group.
The 2003 grant of share options covered 252 participants across the world.
Details of share options granted to Executive Directors in 2003 are shown in note 3 on pages 33 and 34.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 30 Corporate governance continued Board report on remuneration continued Deferred Bonus Plan Retirement benets The Inchcape Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme provides benets for in 1999.
It is a voluntary plan available to Executive Directors and Executive Directors and certain other senior executives at the certain other senior executives.
The purpose of the Deferred normal retirement age of sixty, equal to a maximum of two thirds Bonus Plan is to give participants a share linked reward that is of final base salary, subject to completion of twenty years related to the participants commitment to maintaining a service.
Details of awards made to Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with Executive Directors in 2003 under the Deferred Bonus Plan the lesser of 5.0% and the increase in the RPI.
A lump sum benefit of four times base salary is provided, on The Committee has reviewed the operation of the Deferred death in service, along with a spouses pension of two thirds of Bonus Plan and proposes that from 2004 participants may invest the members pension.
Childrens pensions may also be payable, a minimum of 10.0% and a new maximum of 75.0% of any up to one third of the members pension.
bonus award after tax to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
In the case of Executive Directors and certain other senior In addition, to comply with current best practice and to align executives appointed after 1 June 1989 the benets under the Executive Directors rewards under the Deferred Bonus Plan to Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme are in respect of capped shareholders interests, the Committee proposes introducing a base salary.
For those Executive Directors and certain other senior performance condition attaching to the vesting of matching executives whose base salary is capped, a separate life assurance shares.
That test will be EPS growth of RPI 3.0% per annum, exists to supplement the approved life cover to a total lump sum with no re-testing and will apply from 2004.
EPS has been chosen benefit of four times base salary on death in service.
because the Committee believes the key to Inchcape delivering The Inchcape Group UK Supplemental Pension Scheme value to shareholders is through continued strong earnings a funded unapproved contribution scheme was established growth over the long term.
EPS will be measured in the same under a central trust in 1996, with individual retirement accounts manner as for the Share Option Plan.
Subject to that performance for participating executives, to provide for those executives whose condition being met, the participants shares being held in trust base salary exceeded the permitted maximum salary cap.
for three years and the participant remaining an employee of the Executives were able to decline membership and accept a Group, he or she will become entitled to be awarded shares to an monthly cash supplement equal to the employer contribution amount equal to the gross amount of the bonus used to acquire foregone.
The Scheme was closed in 2001 and there are no ordinary shares in the Company.
longer any contributions payable to it.
Executives whose base salary is capped are paid a monthly Executive Share Ownership cash supplement.
The two Executive Directors who received such To emphasise the importance the Committee places on executive supplements in the year are Peter Johnson and Graeme Potts.
share ownership, Executive Directors are expected to hold a xed Details of the amounts paid are shown in note 1 on page 32. number of shares equivalent to one times base salary.
They have Peter Johnsons cash supplement was increased from 40.0% to up to five years from 2004, or date of first grant as an Executive 50.0% of salary during 2003.
This increase moves his long term Director if later, to reach this shareholding target.
pension provision closer to a market competitive level, bearing in SAYE Share Option Scheme mind that his dened benefit pension provision is capped.
The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme was approved by Taxable and other benets shareholders in 1994.
It is open to employees in the UK with at These include such items as company car and medical and life least three months service.
Participants make monthly savings assurance premiums.
They are in line with the remuneration policy for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period share framework outlined above.
options become exercisable within a six month period.
Shareholder approval is sought to extending the Scheme for another ten years along with some minor amendments to its terms.
Details of the amendments are described in the Circular to shareholders.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 31 Performance graph Fees are reviewed annually, with the Board taking advice The following graph illustrates the Groups Total Shareholder from Towers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels, Return TSR over a five year period, relative to the performance taking into account the individuals responsibilities and of the total return index of the FTSE mid 250 group of companies.
TSR is essentially share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
It is the policy of the Company that the Non-executive The FTSE mid 250 has been chosen as the most suitable Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership or comparator as it is the general market index in which Inchcape plc participation in any of the Companys bonus, share option or belongs.
Service contracts 600 Inchcape plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts It is the policy of the Company for Executive Directors to have service contracts with a notice period of one year or less, in line 500 with best practice.
Further, in the event of termination, the 400 Company will seek fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal constraints, the Remuneration Committee tailors its 300 approach, in cases of early termination, to the circumstances of each individual case.
200 Each of the Executive Directors have service contracts with 100 a notice period of one year, details of which are as follows: Dec 98 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 0 Name Date of contract Unexpired term Historical TSR performance 100 holding Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Peter Johnson 1 January 1998 To normal FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts comparison based on thirty trading day average values retirement age Alan Ferguson 1 January 1999 To normal Chairmans remuneration retirement age During the year the Chairmans remuneration was determined by the other Non-executive Directors following a recommendation Graeme Potts 10 September 2002 To normal from the senior independent Non-executive Director.
retirement age From 2004, in accordance with the new terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee, the Chairmans remuneration Normal retirement age is sixty.
Their contracts include will be determined by the Committee.
entitlements to compensation, if their employment is terminated Fees are reviewed annually with the Non-executive Directors without proper notice by the Company, within six months of a from 2004, the Remuneration Committee taking advice from change of control.
In those circumstances, the compensation Towers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels, taking into payable would not exceed the value of twelve months account the individuals responsibilities and time commitment.
It is the policy of the Company that the Chairman is not Sir John Egans appointment, which was due to expire on eligible for pension scheme membership or participation in any of 31 May 2004, has been extended by agreement with him for a the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
The Chairman does not take part in any discussion or decision None of the Non-executive Directors are engaged on a as to his remuneration.
service contract with the Company.
Non-executive Directors remuneration Policy on external appointments The remuneration for Non-executive Directors consists of fees Inchcape recognises that its Executive Directors may well be for their services in connection with Board and Board Committee invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies, meetings.
Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the and that this additional experience is likely to benefit the Board, within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Company.
Executive Directors are, therefore, allowed to accept Association.
The Non-executive Directors do not take part in one Non-executive appointment two in the case of the Group the discussion or decision as to their fees.
Chief Executive as long as these are not likely to lead to conicts of interest.
Any fees received for these duties may be retained by the Executive Director.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 32 Corporate governance continued Notes to the Board report on remuneration The following are auditable disclosures in accordance with Schedule 7A Part III of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors emoluments The total emoluments of the Directors were as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 Remuneration and Non-executive Directors fees 1,891.1 1,429.5 Bonus payments 642.0 562.0 Total 2,533.1 1,991.5 1 Individual emoluments for the year The table below shows a breakdown of remuneration, including taxable and other benets of each Director.
Details of pension entitlements and share options held are shown in notes 2 and 3 on pages 33 and 34.
b In the year the Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme paid the sum of 3,000 to Hugh Norton as the fee for chairing the Schemes Trustee Board.
c The fees details shown include fees of 5,000 to Hugh Norton and Ken Hanna for chairing the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee respectively.
d The payment of 214,405 2002 145,500 was paid directly to Peter Johnson to allow him to make his own pension arrangements outside the Companys plans.
e The payment of 71,310 2002 21,200 was paid directly to Graeme Potts to allow him to make his own pension arrangements outside the Companys plans.
f Until 31 May 2002 Trevor Taylor had a service contract with Inchcape Management Services Ltd, a subsidiary of the Company, for an average of one day per week.
The table includes his remuneration under that contract.
Since 1 February 2001, Trevor Taylor has been a retired member of the Toyota GB Pension Scheme, which is unrelated to the Company.
g Executive Directors may elect to invest up to 50.0% of their annual bonus in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The invested monies are grossed up by the Company to remove the effect of tax on that portion of the executives bonus and the grossed up amount is used by the Company to purchase ordinary shares, which are held in trust for the executive.
Provided the executive remains employed by the Group for three years, the shares and an equal number of matching shares Awarded shares will vest and the executive may exercise his rights under the Plan at any time during the six month exercise period.
Details of Awarded shares are set out in the deferred bonus awards table on page 34.
Proposed changes to the Deferred Bonus Plan are discussed on page 30.
No Directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 none.
Non-cash emoluments comprise items such as company car, medical care and life assurance premiums.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 33 2Directors pension entitlements Accrued annual pension under dened benefit schemes Transfer value Increase in Increase in Accumulated of the increase Transfer Transfer accrued accrued total of in accrued value of value of Difference pension pension accrued benefit net accrued accrued in transfer during the during the year pension at of ination benets at benets at value year net of ination 31.12.03 01.01.03 31.12.03 a 01.01.03 b a b 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Peter Johnson highest paid Director 3.8 3.1 29.0 47.1 449.6 342.7 106.9 Alan Ferguson 34.2 30.7 159.8 360.7 1,877.2 1,328.9 548.3 Graeme Potts 3.3 3.3 4.1 29.1 36.6 6.3 30.3 Total  The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with Retirement Benets Schemes Transfer Values GN 11, 6 April 2002.
No Directors made any contribution to their pension in respect of the above during the year.
b Under the Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme.
c Mr Johnson and Mr Ferguson exercised their options over 172,679 and 90,205 ordinary shares, respectively, on 5 March 2003.
On the day of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 745.5p.
Gains of 617,327 and 322,483 respectively were made upon the exercising of these options.
d Mr Johnson and Mr Ferguson exercised their options over 2,980 and 2,980 ordinary shares, respectively, on 8 April 2003.
On the day of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 740.0p.
A gain of 12,367 was made upon the exercising of each of these options.
e Mr Johnson exercised his option over 140,845 ordinary shares on 15 December 2003.
On the day of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 1295.0p.
A gain of 1,423,943 was made upon the exercising of this option.
f Mr Ferguson exercised part of his option over 35,422 ordinary shares on 15 December 2003.
A gain of 358,116 was made upon the exercising of this option.
g Exercise prices are determined in accordance with the rules of the relevant share option scheme.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 34 Corporate governance continued Notes to the Board report on remuneration continued Notes on share options: i All options were granted for nil consideration.
ii The table shows Directors options over ordinary shares of 150.0p at 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2003.
The mid market price of the shares at 31 December 2003 was 1302.0p.
The price range during 2003 was 665.0p to 1386.0p.
iii Options under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan are granted on a discretionary basis to full time certain other senior executives based within and outside the UK including the Executive Directors of Inchcape plc.
Such options are normally exercisable between three and ten years of grant.
iv Options may normally only be exercised if the performance target has been met.
For all options granted in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan, growth in the Companys earnings per share over a three year period must exceed the increase on the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum.
v The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three months service.
Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period options become exercisable within a six month period.
b The executive will become entitled to the awarded shares if he remains employed by the Inchcape Group for three years and retains the shares purchased with his bonus throughout that period.
The awards made will normally vest within three years of award.
Special rules apply on termination of employment and on a change of control.
By order of the Board Hugh Norton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2004 Inchcape plc Annual report 2003
