43 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Directors remuneration report The following areas within the Directors remuneration report are subject to audit, Directors emoluments, Directors share options, pensions and third party services.
Remuneration and Nominations Committee The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee during the year: R Hooper Chairman E A Barton S M Watson The committee determines on behalf of the Board the Companys policy on Executive Directors remuneration according to written terms of reference.
The committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any change to the structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
During the year the committee has met twice.
R Hooper, E A Barton and S M Watson attended each meeting.
At the end of 2003 the Remuneration and Nominations Committee agreed, and the Board approved, the splitting of the Committee into two separate Committees, creating a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
Membership of the Committees will be as follows: Remuneration Committee R Hooper Chairman E A Barton S M Watson Nominations Committee P S Rigby Chairman E A Barton R Hooper S M Watson This change came effective on 1 January 2004.
Revised terms of reference for both Committees were agreed.
Policy on Directors remuneration The remuneration policy provides for a competitive compensation package, which reflects the Companys performance against financial objectives and personal performance criteria.
It rewards above average performance and is designed to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
The remuneration packages are also designed to compete with other international business information providers.
Details of the packages can be found below.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Executive Directors with regard to the time, responsibilities and experience of the individual concerned.
Main elements of remuneration Salaries for Directors are assessed and benchmarked in relation to similar companies.
The performance related elements of the Executive Directors remuneration are primarily bonus and share option based.
Bonus The Executive Directors have the opportunity to earn bonuses of up to 100% of basic salary subject to the achievement of performance criteria set by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
For 2003 only, the 80% company performance element of the bonus was based on RPI plus 3%.
Therefore if RPI was achieved then the bonus would be nil and any increase above this would have the bonus paid on a sliding scale up to 3%.
The remaining 20% of the bonus continued to be subject to the achievement of personal objectives agreed by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
The 2004 bonus arrangements for Executive Directors have not yet been agreed.
Share options A number of the Executive Directors share options are dependent on performance criteria being met.
The performance criteria against which the exercise of these options is conditional is set as the growth in adjusted earnings per share of RPI plus 9% over a three year period.
The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that by comparing the adjusted earnings per share to the external Retail Price Index plus 9% over a period of three years is a stretching and demanding target to meet.
There are certain share options which the Executive Directors are entitled to which are not performance related where the Remuneration Committee believe is appropriate, for example Save As You Earn.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive grants of share options.
Service agreements There are formal procedures for the appointment, election and re-election of Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed on a one year contract subject to re-election.
In accordance with the articles of association each Director in office for more than 30 months is subject to re-election.
All Directors contracts have notice periods of 12 months.
The Executive Directors contracts were signed in May 2000.
Non-Executive Directors contracts were signed on the following dates: R Hooper 2 March 1998: E A Barton 12 October 1999: and S M Watson 24 May 2000.
All Executive Directors have termination terms which permit the payment of a sum equal to basic salary, bonus entitlement for the year, company pension contributions and the cost to the Company of providing a company car for the period in question.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any termination payment.
The Executive Directors receive a cash payment in lieu of a company car and private medical insurance which also covers their spouse and dependent children.
44 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Directors remuneration report continued Shareholder return The graph below shows total shareholder return over the last few years compared to the FTSE Media sector including the FTSE 100.
The Directors have chosen this sector as it contains comparable peer group companies.
250 200 150 100 50 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Informa Group FTSE Media TSR The Directors have changed the graph from last years comparison using the FTSE Media excluding the FTSE 100 to the FTSE Media including the FTSE 100 as they feel that this comparison is now more relevant.
The Renumeration Committee has authorised an additional payment of 325,740 as an employer pension contribution for him.
2Fees for the services of S M Watson are paid to CMS Cameron McKenna.
Share option schemes The Company has a number of Share Option Schemes: IBC Executive Share Option Scheme IBC Group 1995 scheme was Inland Revenue approved.
Options granted under this scheme are exercisable between three and ten years from date of grant only if pre-set performance criteria are satisfied.
No further grants can be made under this scheme.
IBC Savings Related Option Scheme IBC Group Savings Related Scheme was an Inland Revenue approved scheme.
The scheme was open to all UK employees of the IBC Group including Directors on equal terms.
Grants made under the scheme were for both three-and-five year terms.
LLP Group Pre Flotation Executive Option Scheme LLP Group 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme was Inland Revenue approved.
The scheme was established prior to the flotation of LLP and grants were made to Directors and selected staff of LLP.
Informa Savings Related Option Scheme This Inland Revenue Approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme has three and five year sections and is open to all UK employees, including Directors, on equal terms.
No grants were made during the year.
In 1999 the Company established an employees share scheme which is a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST that encourages and facilitates the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by, and for the benefit of, the employees and certain former employees of the Company and other companies within the Group.
During the year 32,759 shares had been transferred to staff to satisfy the exercise of SAYE options.
Informa Discretionary Option Scheme This scheme has four sections section A which is Inland Revenue approved and sections B, C and D which are unapproved.
Options may be granted under the scheme which are satisfied by the issue of new shares by the Company or may be granted over shares already in issue.
Except where otherwise stated options exercised under all the above schemes are satisfied by the issue of new shares in the Company.
45 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Directors shares and options The Executive Directors are entitled to annual share option grants equal to 1.5 times basic salary in accordance with their service agreement.
There were no grants of options made to Directors during 2003.
Details of the shares held by Directors are included in the Directors report on page 40.
In 2002 D S Gilbertson exercised options when the share price was 161p and J H Wilkinson exercised options when the share price was 252p.
None of the Directors have been granted share options up to the date of this report.
The market price of the Companys shares on 31 December 2003 was 320.5p and ranged from 134p to 325p in the year to 31 December 2003.
Share Matching Plan In 2001 the shareholders approved the establishment of the Informa Group plc Share Matching Plan.
Since this date no grants have been made to Directors or employees under the plan.
Pensions Pension and life assurance benefits are provided to Executive Directors.
All Executive Directors receive a contribution of 25% of annual basic salary to provide for a retirement benefit to such company or personal pension scheme or other investment vehicle.
They are expected to contribute at least 5% of basic salary towards such arrangements.
P S Rigby has sacrificed his entitlement to a bonus for 2003.
The Remuneration Committee has authorised an additional payment of 325,740 as an employer pension contribution for P S Rigby.
D S Gilbertson was a member of the defined benefit scheme provided by the Company during the year.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year.
Gross Increase in Total Value of net Total Value of Value of increase in accrued accrued increase in change in accrued accrued accrued pension net pension at accrual over value during pension at pension at pension of inflation 31 12 03 period period 31 12 03 31 12 02 Total 4,438 3,831 26,125 35,254 59,918 240,424 180,506 Third party services The Company has a contract with CMS Cameron McKenna for the provision of services of S M Watson as a Director of the Company for an initial period of one year from 24 May 2000 and thereafter continuing by agreement between the Board and S M Watson on an annual basis, subject to re-election.
By order of the Board Andrea Wilson FCIS Company Secretary 1 March 2004
