Remuneration report This report is presented to shareholders by the Board and sets out The Chief Executives salary is currently 660,000 which was last the Boards remuneration policy and details of the remuneration increased on 1 April 2002 and the Chief Financial Officers is of each director.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee 400,000 which took effect on 1 January 2003, being the date of his is responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
No increase will be awarded for approving the remuneration packages of individual executive to either director in respect of the 2003 04 financial year and the directors.
The members of the Committee during the period under next review date will be 1 April 2004. review were Mr R L Brjesson Committee Chairman, Sir Philip Beck, In view of the restructuring of the Group explained in the Mr L E Farmer and Mr J-C Guez appointed on 21 January 2003.
Chairmans statement on page 2 of this report, the Committee They are all independent non-executive directors.
considers it appropriate to ensure that the executive directors are The Committee takes advice, as appropriate, from independent properly incentivised to undertake the restructuring in the interests remuneration consultants and internally from relevant executives of all shareholders.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the and human resources professionals.
Specifically, the Committee has arrangements explained in the following pages represent an taken advice internally from the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the appropriate balance between fixed and performance linked pay.
Senior Vice President Human Resources and Group Services Regina 2 Executive Bonus Plan Hitchery, the Vice President Compensation and Benefits John Reed The main objectives of the Executive Bonus Plan the Plan for and the Company Secretary.
Externally, following a review, the the executive directors are to encourage executives to achieve Committee has during the year appointed and taken remuneration defined annual financial objectives and focus on the most important consultancy advice from New Bridge Street Consultants.
This firm measures of business success whilst rewarding them for outstanding now provides the principal source of external advice to the performance.
In this way the Plan seeks to align the interests of Committee on issues relating to the remuneration of the executive shareholders and those participating in the Plan.
Prior to the appointment of New Bridge Street Plan, the Committee has followed the provisions set out in Schedule Consultants, the Committee received advice on such issues from A to the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Mercer HR Consulting.
The Committee has also received advice from UK Listing Authority.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and previously from Linklaters in their capacity as lawyers to the Company on such issues and from As described in last years report, the targets for the Chief Executive Punter Southall & Co Limited which provided advice in relation to for the year ended 31 March 2003 were set to reflect profit and executive directors pensions and actuarial advice to the Company cash flow targets and a number of measurable operational targets generally.
New Bridge Street Consultants provided no other services reflecting the key areas of targeted performance improvement.
Mercer HR Consulting also acts as actuary to No bonuses were paid under the Plan to executive directors in certain of the Groups overseas pensions schemes.
respect of that year except a guaranteed bonus of 88,125 due to the Chief Financial Officer.
This was negotiated as a term of his No non-Committee member may attend other than by invitation recruitment.
He has no such guarantee in respect of 2003 04 or of the Committee Chairman.
No director is involved in deciding subsequent years.
For the forthcoming year 2003 04, the performance targets, for Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, have been The Invensys Group operates world-wide and will be focusing its set to reflect targets related to operating profit before interest operations within the production management industry with a high and tax, with a range of supplemental measures.
The achievement proportion of executives in the US.
The markets for executives of all targets would produce a payment of 50% of annual base salary and staff within which it will operate are therefore the electronic, and the maximum bonus achievable in respect of performance in software and related industries.
It is the objective of the excess of targets is 100% of annual base salary.
remuneration policy with respect to the current year and, subject to any changes of circumstances, future years to provide a The Committee considers these targets to be fully appropriate as remuneration package which is competitive and performance-linked they provide an effective blend of measures reflecting the need whilst attracting, motivating and retaining the highest calibre both to develop the ongoing operations and to dispose of non-core executive directors and senior executives.
The Committee has activities on as favourable terms to shareholders as possible.
established a remuneration package for the executive directors after The Committee confirms that it is not its policy to pay transactiontaking proper account of the specific requirements of the business related bonuses.
including the international spread of the business, the remuneration Shareholder approval has been given for the operation of a applicable at other levels within the Group and developments in UK Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
In the current circumstances, the best practice.
The main components of the remuneration package Committee has concluded that it will not be appropriate to operate are as follows: this plan for the foreseeable future.
1 Salary 3 Long Term Incentive and Option Schemes The Committee determines the level of salary for each executive i Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP director annually.
Base salaries are set at a level to take account The Committee has decided that in future the LTIP will be operated of personal performance and salaries in comparable companies.
as the principal vehicle for long-term incentivisation for the In establishing individual levels the Committee is conscious that it executive directors.
Under the LTIP, awards may be made subject to a should pay no more than is necessary to retain the executive whilst performance condition under which the Companys Total Shareholder ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
There is no automatic Return TSR will be ranked over a fixed three year period against adjustment in respect of inflation.
22 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 the TSR of the constituents as at the date of grant of the FTSE Typical pension and life assurance benefits are provided to the Mid 250.
The Companys TSR must rank at the median position for executive directors, comprising participation in the Companys final 25% of an award to be available subject to a retention period of, salary pension on salaries up to the Inland Revenues earnings cap generally, two years, rising to all of the shares being available if the currently 99,000 with appropriate top-up arrangements.
upper decile position is achieved.
Intermediate awards between 5 Other benefits those points are assessed on a straight-line basis.
If at least the Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the median position is not achieved, the whole award lapses.
In addition provision of a company car or the use of a pool car and health care.
to satisfying the TSR test, awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that there has been sustained delivery, over 6 Service contracts the performance period, regarding the trading performance of i Policy continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group The Combined Code and the latest guidelines issued by institutional indebtedness.
investors recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set as an objective for executive directors and that any payments TSR was selected as an effective means of determining the to a departing executive director should be determined having full Companys performance relative to that of other companies of regard to the duty of mitigation.
It is the Companys policy to comparable size.
The Committee selected the supplemental tests achieve these objectives, wherever possible.
as being appropriate to the strategy and scale of the Company following the recently announced new strategic direction and ii Specific contracts because they would be capable of being measured by reference Mr R N Haythornthwaite and Mr A N Hennah are employed under to the progress achieved in implementing that strategy.
service contracts with the Company dated 24 July 2001 and 29 July 2002 respectively.
The TSR calculation will be periodically undertaken by New Bridge The following summary sets out certain provisions that applied Street Consultants using data supplied by Datastream and reported during the year.
Certain modifications have been made following to the Committee.
The Committee will monitor performance against the year end as explained below.
budget and other objectives set by the Board in considering whether the other tests have been met.
Both contracts terminate automatically on the executive directors 60th birthday.
The level of awards to executive directors is determined by the Committee according to the prevailing market practice and within Both contracts can be terminated by either party giving the other the overriding limit of two times salary.
not less than twelve months written notice and do not contain any pay in lieu of notice provisions.
Accordingly, if either of the executive For the forthcoming year 2003 04, each executive director will directors contracts is terminated other than for cause, any termination receive an award of shares worth one times salary.
This reflects an payment will be negotiated subject to mitigation and offset.
award in respect of broadly 50% of the value of shares awarded in previous years.
The Committee considers this to be an effective, In certain change of control circumstances, each contract could be but not excessive, award in light of the current circumstances that terminated by the director giving the Company 30 days written is likely to be sufficient to cover both the 2003 04 and 2004 05 notice provided two conditions are satisfied.
First, a change of financial years: it is not currently intended that a further award be control must occur defined to include: i the acquisition of shares made before June 2005 as the awards were structured to incentivise carrying more than 50% of voting rights of the Company: ii the the executive directors through the principal phase of restructuring.
approval by shareholders of a merger or consolidation of the Company: iii a compromise or scheme of arrangement between ii Executive Share Option Scheme the Company and its members under section 425 of the Companies The Company does not propose to operate the Executive Share Act 1985 or a resolution for the voluntary winding up of the Option Scheme in relation to executive directors except by Company: or iv the sale or disposition of 50% or more of the exception, in the case of recruitment situations, where it may be Companys assets.
Secondly, the directors title, responsibilities, considered appropriate.
status or place of work must be materially and adversely changed or diminished without the directors prior consent.
iii Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS The Company has an established SRSOS that operates in the UK, Where a director terminates his service contract by giving 30 days together with a related SRSOS that operates in approximately written notice under the provisions set out above, the Company is 20 overseas countries.
It is based on a three, five or seven year required to pay him an amount in cash equal to: i one years annual UK only savings plan and offered to eligible full and part-time base salary: plus ii the amount if any of his expected award employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the calculated at the target bonus level under the Executive Bonus Plan market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the for the preceding fiscal year if such award has not already been paid: date of invitation.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in plus iii a pro rata share calculated at the target bonus level the SRSOS.
whether or not performance is at target level at the termination date of his expected award under the Executive Bonus Plan 4 Pensions calculated in respect of the period from the beginning of the fiscal Details of the individual executive directors pension arrangements year in which his employment terminates to the date his employment are set out on page 28.
Pensionable pay is defined as base salary terminates: plus iv in the case of Mr Hennah only, the amount, if only: bonuses are not pensionable.
any, of the supplementary cash payments, as described in the next paragraph, that remain to be paid to him.
This payment is not subject 23 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Remuneration report continued to any discount or reduction for early payment and the director Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are is not under any duty to mitigate his losses in connection with determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman this payment.
In addition, the Company will continue to provide and the executive directors.
The Chairmans fees are set by a the director with pension and certain other benefits for up to Committee comprising the Senior Independent Director, as chairman twelve months.
of the Committee, two other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the other In addition, Mr Hennah is entitled to receive a payment of 250,000 non-executive directors, which are subject to the limits set in the on each of 5 April 2004 and 5 October 2005 provided he remains Articles of Association, were set in 1999 and have not been employed on those dates.
This was agreed as a term of his joining increased since that date.
The Chairmans fees are set at 250,000 the Company reflecting the then value of entitlements from his per annum.
The basic fees for a non-executive director have been previous employer that he lost as a result of his decision to join fixed at 28,000 per annum.
An additional fee of 5,000 is payable the Company.
to the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and all Reflecting the developing views of institutional shareholders members of the Boards standing committees receive a fee of 750 regarding termination provisions, Mr Haythornthwaite has requested for each meeting attended.
The fees of each non-executive director and the Committee has agreed that his contract be amended so that for the year are set out in the table on page 25. it may be terminated by either party giving one months notice and External directorships with no provision for liquidated damages in any circumstances.
The executive directors are encouraged to hold non-executive Mr Hennah has agreed that he will not give notice with respect to directorships in other companies in order to broaden their any change of control as defined arising by virtue of the disposal experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are and restructuring programme at least until the Committee shall have subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any agreed that such programme is substantially complete.
fees paid in respect of such directorships.
As explained on page 25, Ms K A ODonovan retired from the Performance graph Company on 31 December 2002 and received no compensation in Companies are required to include a graph indicating their total relation to her retirement.
Prior to that date, she had served under shareholder return performance ie share price growth assuming a service contract dated 30 June 1999 that, except in the case of reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to dismissal for cause, required twelve months notice by either a recognised equity index.
Accordingly, the following graph shows party.
On early termination at the request of the Company, any the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100, of which compensation would have been subject to mitigation and offset.
the Company has been a constituent during substantially all of Non-executive directors that period.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services save that Mr M Jays letter of Total Shareholder Return appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except in the case of dismissal for cause, twelve months notice by either party: on early termination at the request of the Company any compensation will be subject to mitigation and offset.
They are appointed under the Companys Articles of Association under which they are required to seek re-election not later than the third annual general meeting following their last election and are subject to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being considered for election or re-election by shareholders.
They do not participate in any bonus plan or any of the Groups share incentive or option or pension schemes.
Any director aged 70 or over there are none currently is required to be re-elected each year.
24 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Directors remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2003 was as follows: Supplementary pension Total Total Note Salary Benefits payment Bonuses 2003 2002 Current directors R N Haythornthwaite 1,2 660,000 24,861 105,600 790,461 645,276 A N Hennah 3 162,303 23,533 88,125 273,961 Former directors K A ODonovan 4 354,808 30,959 385,767 455,761 A M Yurko 727,987 1,450,189 1,829,024 Notes 1.
The 2002 remuneration for R N Haythornthwaite relates to the seven month period 1 September 2001 to 31 March 2002.
R N Haythornthwaite received a cash supplementary pension payment of 105,600 in lieu of certain benefits being based on final salary as set out in note 1 following the table headed Directors pensions entitlements on page 28.
A N Hennah was appointed to the Board of Directors on 23 October 2002 and the emoluments disclosed relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2003.
K A ODonovan retired from the Board of Directors on 31 December 2002 and received no compensation in relation to her retirement.
The emoluments disclosed relate to the period to 31 December 2002, save that the benefits of 30,959 include an amount of 3,696 being the value attributable to her being allowed to retain the use of her company car until 31 March 2003.
In recognition of her service and her remaining with the Company to ensure an efficient transition to her successor, A N Hennah, the Committee determined that her outstanding options should remain exercisable for a period following her cessation as detailed in the Share schemes table on page 26, in accordance with the rules of the various option schemes.
She has subsequently been appointed as the Chairman of the Board of the Companys pension company which is independent to the Company, the annual fees for which are 50,000 which will be paid directly by the pension fund.
The emoluments of the highest paid director, R N Haythornthwaite, excluding pension rights were 790,461 2002 727,987 paid to A M Yurko for the period 1 April 2001 to 31 January 2002.
J-C Guez and M Jay were appointed to the Board of Directors on 21 January 2003 and their fees relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2003.
A E Macfarlane was appointed to the Board of Directors on 19 March 2003 and his fees relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2003.
Lord Marshall also received benefits of 32,828 2002 nil in respect of the provision of a car.
His transport arrangements are shared by both the Company and British Airways Plc.
Last year the relevant vehicle was leased by British Airways Plc and the benefit was disclosed in the accounts of that Company.
R P Bauman retired from the Board of Directors on 24 July 2002 and his fees relate to the period from 1 April 2002 to this date.
Sir Graham Hearne retired from the Board of Directors on 31 March 2003.
P Scaroni was appointed to the Board of Directors on 1 May 2002 and subsequently resigned on 14 June 2002 following his appointment as Chief Executive of ENEL SpA in Italy.
His fees relate to this period.
25 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Remuneration report continued Directors interests Ordinary shares The interests of the current directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: At 1 April 2002 At 31 March 2003 or at date of appointment if later Sir Philip Beck 56,152 48,196 R L Brjesson 117,672 15,000 L E Farmer 2,000 J-C Guez R N Haythornthwaite 250,000 200,000 A N Hennah M Jay A E Macfarlane 7,500 7,500 Lord Marshall 78,518 23,323 S M Robertson 2,165 2,165 Notes 1.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2003 was 10.50p.
Between 1 April 2002 and 31 March 2003, the highest mid-market price was 122p and the lowest mid-market price was 9.75p.
All interests referred to above are beneficial.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over ordinary shares between 31 March 2003 and 28 May 2003.
Full details of the directors interests over the Companys ordinary shares are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is kept by the Company and is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
This includes rights granted under the Companys various share schemes as detailed on pages 26 to 28.
No options were exercised by directors or shares released under the LTIP during the years ended 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2003.
The details of the share schemes, including performance conditions which apply if any, are set out below.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over share options or LTIP awards between 31 March 2003 and 28 May 2003 other than in respect of R N Haythornthwaite whose option granted under the ISRSOS over 18,388 ordinary shares lapsed on 1 April 2003.
BSESOS BTR Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1985.
Options granted under this scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Consistent with the then prevailing practice at many companies no performance conditions apply to grants made under this scheme.
Grants made under this scheme have been rolled over into options over Invensys plc shares.
No further options can be granted under this scheme.
BESOS BTR Executive Share Option Scheme 1995.
Grants made under this scheme have been rolled over into options over Invensys plc shares and any performance conditions have ceased to apply.
ISESOS Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted under this scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant provided that the relevant performance condition has been met.
The performance condition which applies to grants made under this scheme are as follows: i grants made between 30 July 1998 and 24 July 2001, no options may be exercised unless, over any consecutive three year period prior to exercise, earnings per share EPS growth is equal or in excess of the Retail Price Index RPI plus 12%: ii grants made between 25 July 2001 and 16 June 2002, no options may be exercised unless, over the measurement period commencing with the financial year in which the options were granted, EPS growth is equal or in excess of RPI plus 12% over three years, RPI plus 16% over four years and RPI plus 20% over five years.
If not achieved after five years, the options will lapse: iii grant made on or after 17 June 2002, no option may be exercised unless a performance condition based on Total Shareholder Return TSR is met.
TSR is calculated as the percentage variance in the price of shares and the value of re-invested net dividend payments over the performance period compared to that of a group of comparator companies Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee.
The performance period will be the period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant of the option.
On the third anniversary of the date of grant, each constituent of the Peer Group will be ranked in descending order of TSR.
The TSR ranking of Invensys against the TSR of the Peer Group will determine the number of shares awarded.
Invensys must rank at the median position in order for 40% of the shares under option to become exercisable, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the shares under option will vest on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not meet the performance condition in full at the first measurement, then it will be re-tested, from a fixed base, in years four and five.
If the median position has not been achieved by the end of the fifth year, the option will lapse.
The Peer Groups for the grants made on or after 17 June 2002 are the companies that comprise the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
BSRSOS BTR Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
These options are not subject to a performance condition as this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
ISRSOS Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
27 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Remuneration report continued Share schemes continued LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
The vesting of the awards is generally subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR being ranked, against a group of comparator companies the Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee, at least at the median over a fixed three year period the Performance Period commencing on the date of award with no re-testing opportunities.
Additionally the Committee must determine that the underlying financial performance of the Company over the Performance Period is satisfactory.
On completion of the Performance Period, the Companys TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 50% of the shares that are subject to the award to be available subject to a retention period of, generally, two years, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the shares that are subject of the award will be available on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not achieve at least the median position the whole award will lapse.
The Peer Groups selected for the above grants are as follows: R N Haythornthwaite Award dated 25 July 2001: GKN, Smiths Group, BAE Systems, Marconi, ABB, Schneider Elte, Siemens, Emerson Electric, Honeywell International, Rockwell International, Johnson Controls and Tyco International: A N Hennah Award dated 4 December 2002: The companies that comprised the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding 4 December 2002.
Directors pension entitlements Executive directors participate in defined benefit and defined contribution R N Haythornthwaite only pension arrangements sponsored by the Company.
The defined benefit schemes provide benefits based on earnings at or near retirement and are part externally funded and part reserved for within the Company.
No Company contributions were paid to the defined benefit schemes this year.
The following table gives details of the individual directors pensions values for the year ended 31 March 2003, including the disclosures required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Increase Transfer Accrued Change in during the value as at pension Increase Transfer value Transfer value transfer value year in 31 March 2003 at year ended during the of accrued of accrued over year accrued of increase 31 March 2003 year in pension pension at end less any pension, a less any or at date of accrued as at of previous contributions excluding contributions cessation pension 31 March 2003 year made inflation a made Note per annum per annum 000 000 000 per annum 000 R N Haythornthwaite 1 5,459 3,281 54 20 34 3,244 32 A N Hennah 2 4,098 4,098 38 38 4,098 38 K A ODonovan 2 144,033 15,660 1,355 1,151 204 13,478 127 Notes 1.
The benefits shown for R N Haythornthwaite relate to his participation in the approved pension scheme up to the Inland Revenue earnings limit.
With respect to his earnings above that limit, 158,400 was paid to an unapproved money purchase scheme together with the supplementary pension payment as set out in the table headed Directors remuneration on page 25.
K A ODonovan ceased to be employed on 31 December 2002.
A N Hennah commenced employment on 5 October 2002.
The changes in transfer values over the year reflect any changes in pensionable pay and the service of each director.
They also take into account changes in the actuarial assumptions, particularly those related to equity and bond returns.
As a result, changes in transfer values may be positive or negative, depending on investment conditions.
All benefits are due at age 60.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the level of inflation subject to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
A minimum increase of 3% per annum applies to K A ODonovan.
For death before retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension is payable, if applicable, plus a capital sum of four times the members salary.
For death after retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension is payable plus the balance of a five year guarantee if applicable.
In the event of death after leaving service but before commencement of pension a spouses pension of two-thirds of the accrued preserved pension is payable plus a capital sum of five times the accrued preserved pension.
In all circumstances childrens allowances are also payable if applicable.
Auditable information The information in the remuneration report subject to audit pursuant to the Directors Report Regulations 2002 is that included in the tables and related notes in the sections relating to directors remuneration, directors interests over ordinary shares, share options and long term incentive awards and directors pension entitlements.
The directors remuneration report was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 May 2003 and signed on its behalf by: R L Brjesson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
