Directors Remuneration Report Part I This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on the Groups policy on executive remuneration and determines the remuneration packages of each of the executive directors.
The Committee has written terms of reference and is comprised solely of independent non-executive directors.
During the year, the members were John C Morgan Chairman, Roberto Monti and D John Ogren.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman and Chief Executive, attended meetings, except when his own remuneration was being discussed, to provide advice on setting remuneration for other executive directors.
In addition the Groups Head of Human Resources has provided advice to the Committee.
Freshfields and Monks Partnership provided advice to the committee on the design of the Long Term Retention Plan.
Remuneration Policy The Committee gives full consideration to the relevant provisions of the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 in formulating remuneration policy.
The Committees policy is designed to ensure executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Group and that their rewards are in keeping with the overall compensation goals and structures which apply across the Group.
Remuneration packages are designed to be competitive with those offered by a range of companies within the same business sectors and geographic areas as the Group.
Remuneration packages comprise performance related and non-performance related elements designed to attract, retain and incentivise international executives with the necessary skills and expertise to deliver shareholder value.
The total remuneration package for each executive director comprises a basic salary, benefits-in-kind, annual cash bonus and participation in the Groups pension, Long Term Retention Plan LTRP and share option schemes.
Sir Ian Wood, Chairman and Chief Executive, does not participate in the Groups LTRP or share option schemes.
This report also sets out the Groups policy on executive directors remuneration for 2004 and, so far as practicable, for future years, subject to changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practices.
Basic Salary In determining basic salaries of the executive directors, the Committee seeks to set total remuneration at competitive levels while ensuring that performance related pay makes up a significant part of the total package.
Annual Cash Bonus Annual cash bonuses are based on a combination of i the executive directors performance against annually agreed objectives aimed at achievement of the Groups business related goals and ii the Group financial performance, measured against annually established financial budgets, comprising both an EBITA and a return on capital employed measure.
The 38 John Wood Group PLC Committee fixed the maximum bonus potential for executive directors for 2003 at 50% of basic salary.
Actual bonuses for the year are disclosed in the table set out in Part II.
Bonus payments are not part of pensionable earnings for service after 5 April 2002.
The structure in setting the executive directors performance bonus arrangements for 2004 remains unchanged, although greater emphasis has been placed on the achievement of financial objectives and less on the achievement of personal objectives.
Share Options Share options and LTRP awards were granted to executive directors during 2003 as disclosed in the table set out in Part II.
Pensions UK based executive directors are entitled to membership of the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme which is a defined benefit pension scheme.
This entitles them to the following benefits: 1.
Life assurance cover of four times basic salary.
A retirement pension subject to Inland Revenue restrictions based upon an accrual rate of 1 60th of final salary per year of service up to a maximum of 40 60ths.
Normal retirement age under the scheme is 65.
If A G Langlands or Sir Ian Wood die in pensionable service, their surviving spouses or dependants are entitled to a pension of two thirds of the pension that would have been received at normal retirement date based on the final pensionable salary at the date of death.
Retirement pensions relating to service post 6 April 1997 will increase annually at the lower of RPI or 5%, however there will be no increases to pensions for service prior to 6 April 1997 except to comply with contracting out requirements for post April 1988 Guaranteed Minimum Pensions.
Sir Ian Wood and A G Langlands are non-contributory members of the Groups UK pension scheme.
Sir Ian Wood and A G Langlands receive pension increases of 3% per annum on pensions accrued prior to 6 April 1997 and a minimum increase of 3% on pension accrued after 6 April 1997.
Sir Ian Wood and A G Langlands, at age 65, are entitled to a pension of two thirds of final pensionable salary less retained benefits from previous employers schemes.
Only A G Langlands has such retained benefits.
The maximum level of benefits which can be provided by an approved pension scheme for joiners post June 1989 currently stands at 99,000.
Benefits are provided to A G Langlands in excess of the cap, and are provided by way of an unfunded, unapproved arrangement.
A G Semple and W R Brooks participate in a Group defined contribution arrangement.
During the year the Groups contributions on their behalf amounted to US$ 6,000 2002: US$5,500 and US$7,000 2002: US$6,000 respectively.
They also have life insurance cover of approximately four times salary.
John Wood Group PLC 39 Directors Remuneration Report Share Option Schemes and Long Term Retention Plans Prior to listing on the London Stock Exchange the Group operated two approved executive share option schemes, the John Wood Group PLC 1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the John Wood Group PLC 2000 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and two unapproved executive share option schemes, the John Wood Group PLC 1996 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme and the John Wood Group PLC 2000 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the Former Share Option Schemes.
The options granted under the Former Share Option Schemes vest on the basis of periods of continuous employment with the Group and do not have additional performance conditions attached which have to be satisfied prior to vesting.
The Board has resolved that no further options will be granted under the Former Share Option Schemes.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is important for the Group to be in a position to incentivise and retain its executive directors and key management by granting share options and LTRP awards within parameters acceptable to the Groups shareholders.
Accordingly the Group has adopted the John Wood Group PLC No 1 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme and the John Wood Group PLC No 2 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the Share Option Schemes and the John Wood Group Plc No 1 2003 Long Term Retention Plan and the John Wood Group Plc No 2 2003 Long Term Retention Plan the LTRP Schemes.
The Share Option Schemes and the proposed parameters of their operation were approved by shareholders on the listing of the Group in June 2002 and the LTRP Schemes and the proposed parameters of their operation were approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
Options granted under the Share Option Schemes are exercisable between four and ten years from the grant date and options granted to Group Directors are subject to the achievement of performance criteria.
Options granted to employees are not subject to performance conditions.
This is to ensure that the Groups option package is competitive in all locations where it has operations, in particular in the US where the Companys competitors do not normally impose performance conditions on the vesting of options.
The current performance condition for Board members in the Share Option Schemes is that annualised earnings per share growth over the measurement period must be an average of 3% per annum greater than the percentage increase, if any, in the Retail Price Index, over that period.
The measurement period is a period of four consecutive financial years, starting from the financial year commencing immediately before the date of grant.
If the performance conditions are not achieved for the first four consecutive financial years, re-testing of the performance condition may occur over an extended measurement period of five, six or eight consecutive financial years, but any such re-testing continues to start from the original base point.
The operation of the Share Option Schemes is subject to ongoing review by the Remuneration Committee with regard to the performance conditions, level of allocation and the frequency of issue of options, taking into account the practice of comparable companies.
Grants of options are considered on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee and grants to any individual are generally phased rather than awarded in blocks.
In the absence of exceptional circumstances, the Share Option Scheme rules set one times annual salary as a maximum individual award level.
The principle behind the LTRP Schemes is effectively that a notional overall bonus pool will be calculated annually based on growth in the Groups adjusted earnings per share in the prior year.
The Remuneration Committees intention, based on 40 John Wood Group PLC current conditions, is that there will be no bonus pool if the prior year adjusted EPS growth is under a threshold of RPI plus 3% per annum.
The maximum bonus pool would be 5% of EBTA earnings before tax, amortization, exceptional items and impairments, which would be awarded if the adjusted EPS growth meets or exceeds RPI plus 10% per annum.
In setting limits the Remuneration Committee is of the view that they should be challenging but achievable.
To increase the retention value and alignment with shareholder interests the annual awards from this notional bonus pool will be made wholly in shares under the LTRP Schemes, which then vest 4 years later if the executive continues to be employed by the Group.
The level of share award from the notional bonus pool to an individual will be calculated based on the market value of the shares at the time of grant.
The method of granting these share awards will be by way of par value options, which will be exercisable between the fourth and fifth anniversary of grant.
In the absence of exceptional circumstances, the LTRP Scheme rules set one times annual salary as a maximum individual award from the notional bonus pool, although it is the Remuneration Committees intention that individual awards would not normally be more than 50% of annual salary.
The Share Option Schemes and the proposed LTRP will operate in aggregate within the Association of British Insurers dilution limits in terms of the issue of new shares.
The method of calculating the notional bonus pool for each year will be based on the formula above, as amended from time to time to reflect changing markets and remuneration practices.
Service Contracts The executive directors service contracts, all entered into with effect from 1 May 2002, have no fixed term and are terminable by either party giving to the other not less than 12 months written notice of termination.
It is the Remuneration Committees view that these contractual notice periods continue to be appropriate and in line with current best practice.
None of the service contracts provides for pre-determined amounts of compensation in the event of early termination.
On termination of service contracts, executive directors are entitled to the payment of their salary and benefits in kind provided that they will be subject to a general duty to mitigate their loss.
Within contractual constraints, the Remuneration Committee will endeavour to ensure that executive directors do not receive unwarranted payments if it is judged that their performance has had a detrimental effect on shareholder value.
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external directorships or other significant appointments without the Boards prior consent.
Non-Executive Directors Non-executive directors are paid directors fees, which reflect the commitment expected of them, and are reimbursed all necessary and reasonable expenses in the performance of their duties.
Additional fees are paid in respect of membership of a committee of the Group.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the Groups annual bonus, share option or pension plans.
The non-executive directors have each entered into letters of engagement addressing remuneration, services to be provided, conflicts of interest and confidentiality.
Subject to the requirement for retirement by rotation under the Articles of Association, the letters of engagement do not have fixed terms and are terminable by either party giving to the other not less than 90 days written notice of termination.
John Wood Group PLC 41 Directors Remuneration Report Performance Graph As the Company is listed in the UK FTSE 250 index, by way of providing a reasonable Total Shareholder Return comparison, the graph below compares the Total Shareholder Return on a holding of shares in John Wood Group PLC since flotation with the Total Shareholder Return on a holding of shares in the companies in the UK FTSE 250 index.
Information is not given pre-flotation as there is no meaningful comparison available for this period.
2 In addition to the annual cash bonus plan, W R Brooks participated in an incentive scheme under which he received a 42 John Wood Group PLC May 02 Jun 02 Jul 02 Aug 02 Sep 02 Oct 02 Nov 02 Dec 02 Jan 03 Feb 03 Mar 03 Apr 03 May 03 Jun 03 Jul 03 Aug 03 Sep 03 Oct 03 Nov 03 Dec 03 bonus based upon the Well Support divisions level of performance over a three-year period when compared to a target.
A final instalment of $497,000 was paid to W R Brooks in 2003.
The directors emoluments paid to UK based directors are paid in sterling.
The US dollar figures in the table above are translated at the average rate of exchange for 2003 of 1 US$1.6406.
Total sterling amounts paid to these directors are provided for information.
Pensions The directors below had the following accrued entitlements under the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme at 31 December 2003.
For A G Langlands, the figures also include his entitlement under the unfunded, unapproved arrangement.
Age at Increase in Increase in Accumulated Accumulated Exchange 31 Dec 2003 accrued pension accrued pension total accrued total accrued impact on including excluding pension at pension at accrued inflation inflation 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002 pension $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Sir Ian Wood 61 35 30 259 198 26 A G Langlands 45 18 16 95 68 9 W Edgar 65 2 1 23 19 2 Increase in transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value of pension of increase in of accrued of accrued entitlement Exchange pension benefit at benefit at less member impact on entitlement 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002 contributions transfer values $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Sir Ian Wood 394 3,409 2,533 534 342 A G Langlands 122 668 423 179 66 W Edgar 14 323 279 10 34 The underlying pension figures in the above table are sterling denominated and have been translated into US dollars at the appropriate exchange rates.
There were no member contributions during the year.
John Wood Group PLC 43 Directors Remuneration Report Share options According to the register of directors interests maintained under the Companies Act 1985, other than as stated below, no directors or members of their immediate families have any options to subscribe for shares in any Group company.
On behalf of the Board J Morgan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 44 John Wood Group PLC
