Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and best practice.
Ernst & Young also provided advice to the the Committee in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Company on remuneration for non-executive directors and senior Report Regulations 2002 and in accordance with the revised management and provided advice on tax issues to the Group.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and it has been approved by the Board.
Sir Nigel Rudd, the former Chairman, Michael Harper, the Chief Executive, John Nicholas, the Group Finance Director, Bob Dwyer, A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 28 April the Director of Human Resources, and Diane Quinlan, the 2004 inviting them to consider and approve this report.
Company Secretary, also provided support and advice to the Committee.
None participated in discussions concerning their Remuneration Committee own remuneration.
During the financial year to 31 December 2003, the members of the Committee were John Poulter Chairman of the Committee, The Committee operates under clear written terms of reference Norman Askew who joined the Committee on 25 February 2003, which are set out on the Companys website at www.
John Gummer and Michael Kirkwood.
The Board considers that The Committee confirms that, except for the inclusion of bonuses the Committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive within the definition of pensionable earnings under the Kidde UK directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as defined benefit pension plan, as described on page 9, and for shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
Richard Gillingwater setting the Chairmans remuneration which is determined by the joined the Committee on 1 February 2004 and Michael Kirkwood Board, its constitution and operation complies with the principles ceased to be a member of the Committee on that date.
There set out in the Code and it has applied the principles in Section 1 were no other changes to the composition of the Committee of the Code throughout the year.
between the year end and the date of this Report.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive Remuneration policy for executive Directors and Director of Human Resources may attend and speak at The objective of the Committee is to ensure that members of meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of executive management are provided with appropriate incentives the Committee.
However, they are not involved in discussions to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and concerning their own remuneration.
responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the performance of the Company.
Share ownership is The Committee met five times in 2003 and there was full encouraged together with equity-linked incentives that help to attendance except for one meeting which Mr Kirkwood was align the interests of directors and executive management with unable to attend.
The policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required, taking account The purpose of the Committee is: of industry, market and country benchmarks and the Companys position relative to other companies.
The Committee also takes to assess and approve a broad remuneration strategy for into consideration the levels of remuneration elsewhere within the Group, to determine short and long-term incentive pay the Company.
structures for the Companys executive directors and executive management i. e. members of the Executive Committee to The Committees aim is to provide a balanced package, with both ensure they are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions fixed and variable elements, to ensure that an appropriate proportion to the Companys overall performance of executive directors remuneration is performance related.
to demonstrate that the remuneration of the directors and The short-term and long-term incentive awards received by the executive management of the Company is set by a committee executives are made relative to base salary and have been of Board members who are independent of management and provided under plans which are outlined in the following pages.
free from any business or other relationship which could In order to have due regard to the interests of shareholders, the interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement: use of share incentives is considered to be an important part of that they have no personal interest in the outcome of their the executive remuneration package and aligns the interests of decisions and will give due regard to the interests of the the executives with those of shareholders.
shareholders, to the financial and commercial health of the Company and to the comments of Investment Protection There are four main elements of the remuneration package for Committees including for example, the Association of British executive directors: Insurers guidelines and recommendations of the Combined Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules, associated basic annual salary and benefits guidance and company law.
annual bonus share incentives and During the year, the Committee appointed Ernst & Young in retirement benefits.
an advisory role to provide independent, objective advice on remuneration for executive directors and members of the The performance related elements, when valued at typical Executive Committee including benchmarking, advice on cash and performance levels, comprise more than 50% of the total package share based incentives and guidance on compliance, governance excluding retirement benefits.
8 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Salary and benefits Share incentives Base salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually by The long-term incentive plans the Performance Share Plan and the Committee and are determined by reference to individual the Executive Share Option Scheme use Earnings Per Share EPS responsibilities, skills and experience, performance, salary levels in growth as the performance condition.
EPS was chosen because it the Group and external market data.
Salary levels are set within a focuses on the financial performance of the business as earnings range around the market median for similar roles in a selection of performance has a direct influence on the share price.
The comparator group of companies has aligns remuneration with business strategy and supports been selected on the basis of: shareholder value.
In addition, the Committee considered that EPS is an internationally recognised measure underlying financial Size companies within a reasonable range in revenue and performance, which is understood by both shareholders and the market capitalisation terms relative to Kidde are included Companys executives.
Sectors in which Kidde competes for managerial and technical talent, i. e. engineering, aerospace, electronics and electrical For both the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Share equipment manufacture Option Scheme, the Performance Period is the three financial years UK quoted companies operating internationally.
of the Company starting with the financial year in which the option or award is granted.
The percentage increase in the EPS Benefits include the provision of a car, fuel, medical and is measured by comparing the EPS of the financial year of the permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Company immediately preceding the start of the Performance Period with the EPS for the last financial year of the Company Annual bonus in the Performance Period.
The Companys auditors certify A discretionary annual cash bonus opportunity of up to 50% of performance against the target.
base salary is available to the executive directors.
Performance targets are determined at the beginning of each financial year No re-testing of share awards or options is permitted.
and are aimed at motivating participants to achieve key business objectives.
For 2003, targets included profitability, sales and other The Company complies with the guidelines on dilution limits set qualitative objectives.
by the Association of British Insurers, which regulates the number of shares which may be made available to employees under According to the definition of pensionable earnings under the long-term incentive schemes.
Kidde UK defined benefit Pension Plan, bonuses payable to all members of the plan, including the executive directors, are The following table summarises Kiddes current dilution position.
The Kidde UK Pension Plan is now closed to new Ordinary Shares 838,269,490 members.
It is the policy of the Committee that any future executive 5% Limit 41,913,475 directors, who are not existing members of the Kidde UK Pension 10% Limit 83,826,949 Plan, will not have bonuses which are pensionable.
Under the Bonus Investment Plan, participants, including executive Total awards Headroom No of % of No of % of directors, may elect to invest 50% of their bonus after deduction Shares Capital Shares Capital of income tax to purchase Company shares, known as Deferred Executive Share Option Scheme 23,927,967 2.85 Shares.
The shares purchased are then matched with a number Performance Share Plan 6,887,365 0.82 of shares equal to the gross bonus invested, known as Matching Total under discretionary plans 30,815,332 3.68 11,098,142 1.32 Shares.
The shares are held in trust for a period of three years from the date of award and will vest provided that the participant Savings Related Share Option Scheme 8,405,627 1.00 remains in a participating companys employment at the end of Employee Stock Purchase Plan 1,650,577 0.20 the three-year retention period.
There are no performance Total under all plans 40,871,536 4.88 42,955,413 5.12 conditions attached to this plan as it is aimed at encouraging share ownership and participation is voluntary.
Performance share plan The Plan allows the Company to grant participating individuals, The participant may apply to withdraw the Deferred Shares from including executive directors, awards over shares of up to 100% the trust at any time during the retention period, in which case, of annual base salary in any year 200% of annual base salary in the Matching Shares in respect of those Deferred Shares will exceptional circumstances.
Subject to the Companys code of immediately lapse.
practice on dealing in listed securities, awards will be made in the period following the publication of the Companys preliminary During the year, Mr Harper purchased 54,611 Deferred Shares results.
Awards are subject to achievement of the required under the Plan with a further 91,018 Matching Shares held in performance target and will vest on the achievement of the trust.
Mr Nicholas elected to take his bonus in cash.
required performance criteria and expire ten years from the date of award.
In respect of awards made in 2003, the percentage growth in the Groups EPS over the fixed three-year performance period must be at least 4% per annum.
If the performance condition is not met, the award will lapse.
For EPS growth 9 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors remuneration report continued between 4% and 10% per annum, awards vest on a sliding scale.
Company operates an Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP which Vesting is not subject to re-testing.
is a savings plan linked to the Companys American Depository Receipts ADRs.
Under the ESPP, participants have a right to In respect of awards made in 2003 and to be made in 2004, purchase ADRs at the lower of the ADR prices at the start or end the vesting schedule is as follows: of each 12 month savings period, less a 15% discount.
The executive directors are not eligible to participate in the ESPP.
EPS Growth pa Vesting Level Over 70% of Kiddes employees globally are eligible to participate Less than 4% Nil in an all employee share scheme.
The Company has authority and, 4% 14% 5% 29% where appropriate, will consider introducing further share plans 6% 43% for its overseas employees in order to provide them with the 7% 57% opportunity to purchase shares where permitted by local 8% 71% legislation.
9% 85% 10% or more 100% A Share Incentive Plan has been approved by shareholders but has The executive directors received an award under the Plan in 2003 not yet been implemented.
Retirement benefits For awards made in 2001, the performance target has been met J M Harper and J E Nicholas are members of the Kidde UK Pension in full and 100% of the awards will vest.
The Pension Plan is a funded, Inland Revenue Approved, defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
Pensionable Executive Share Option Scheme earnings under the Pension Plan include base salary at 1 April plus The Company operates both an Inland Revenue Approved share the annual average pensionable bonus over the rolling three year option scheme and an Unapproved scheme on a global basis, period to that date.
The Plans main features applicable to the under which selected employees, including executive directors, are executive directors are: eligible to receive options over the Companys shares at the market price at the time of grant.
Grants of options are normally a normal pension age of 60 made annually and the maximum grant permitted to a participant life assurance cover of four times base salary in any 12-month period is restricted to no more than two times final pensionable salary is pensionable earnings in the annual base salary.
Options are normally exercisable between three 12 months prior to retirement and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the achievement pensions payable in the event of ill health of a performance condition which is set by the Committee prior to spouses and dependants pensions on death the grant.
The performance condition relating to all options membership is non-contributory granted to date requires that the percentage growth in the a pension of 2 3rds of final pensionable salary at age 60 or Groups EPS over a fixed three-year performance period exceeds pro rated for an earlier retirement.
the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 3% per annum.
If the performance condition is not met, the option lapses.
Members may also convert part of their pension into a lump sum cash payment.
The pension of J E Nicholas includes an unfunded For options granted in 2001, the performance target has been benefit promise from the Company by reference to his salary in met and options will be exercisable from the third anniversary of excess of the Inland Revenues earnings cap.
With the permission of the Company and the Trustees of the It is the policy of the Committee not to make grants of awards or pension plan, a director can take early retirement at any time from options to the same individuals under the Performance Share Plan the age of 50 with a reduced pension reflecting his shorter service and the Executive Share Option Scheme in the same year.
The pension is based on final pensionable earnings and Accordingly, there have been no grants to the executive directors pensionable service at the date of retirement.
under the Executive Share Option Scheme in the year to 31 December 2003.
All pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions are subject to contractual annual increases in line with the annual All Employee Share Schemes rise in the Retail Prices Index.
For most members this is up to a The Company operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme maximum of 3% in any one year for pension built up to 5 April in the UK which enables eligible employees, including executive 1997, and a maximum of 5% a year for service after that date.
directors, to acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company For members of one fund, 4% per annum fixed increases apply.
at a discount of up to 20% of their market price, using the proceeds of a related save as you earn contract.
In the USA, the 10 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Performance graph Policy on external appointments The graph below shows Kiddes total shareholder return between The Company recognises that, during their employment with listing on the London Stock Exchange on 14 November 2000 and Kidde plc, executive directors may be invited to become non- 31 December 2003 relative to those companies in the FTSE 250 executive directors of other companies and that such duties can Index for the same period.
This index has been chosen because broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive directors may, the Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and uses with the written consent of the Company, accept directorships companies from this index for other benchmarking purposes.
outside the Company, except those that could conflict with the Companys business and interests, waiving their right to any fees.
In respect of his appointment as a director of UMECO plc and Kidde TSR comparative performance since 14 Nov 2000 Ricardo plc, Mr Harper is eligible to receive a fee of 17,500 and 200 27,500 respectively.
These fees have been waived by Mr Harper 180 and are paid to Kidde.
Mr Nicholas does not have any outside 160 appointments.
140 120 Policy on non-executive directors The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have letters 100 of appointment.
Their appointment and subsequent reappointment 80 is subject to election or re-election by shareholders.
It is the policy 60 of the Company to appoint non-executive directors for an initial 40 period of three years.
Non-executive directors do not participate in 20 any of the Companys annual or long-term incentive plans and are not eligible for any pension benefits.
0 The time commitment expected of non-executive directors is set out in their letters of appointment.
By accepting the appointment, Kidde TSR FTSE 250 Index TSR they have confirmed that they are able to allocate sufficient time Service contracts to meet the expectations of their role.
The agreement of the Executive directors Chairman of the Nomination Committee has to be sought before It is the Companys policy to have 12 month notice periods for accepting additional commitments that might affect the time they executive directors.
J M Harper and J E Nicholas have rolling are able to devote to their role.
service contracts with the Company dated 9 October 2000 which came into force on 14 November 2000, the date the Company With effect from 1 January 2004, the non-executive directors, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The contracts are terminable excluding the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, receive on 12 months notice by the Company or by the director.
The an annual fee of 30,000 and an additional 5,000 in respect of Company may terminate the employment of the executive their chairmanship of Board committees.
The Chairman receives directors at any time by paying them a sum equal to their salary an annual fee of 125,000 plus 5,000 in respect of his and the value of their other benefits for the period of 12 months.
chairmanship of the Nomination Committee.
The Senior It is a condition of each service contract that, if the Company Independent Director receives an annual fee of 35,000.
In terminates the employment of an executive director other than addition, they are entitled to be reimbursed for approved expenses because the Company is entitled to do so under the terms of the incurred in connection with their duties.
The remuneration of the service contract the director will be entitled to a sum equal to the non-executive directors is a matter for the Board, excluding the salary which would have been earned between the date of actual non-executive directors, within the overall limits set by the termination and the earliest lawful termination date in the form of Companys articles of association and having regard to market liquidated damages.
This sum shall be in full and final settlement practice.
of all claims other than any claim which may be brought in respect of a statutory redundancy payment, share options or other Interests in shares share incentive schemes arising out of their employment or The interests of the directors holding office at 31 December 2003 termination thereof except for salary and holiday accrued due.
in the share capital of the Company are set out overleaf.
All of the interests are beneficial with the exception of 4,000 shares held by J M Harper on behalf of a minor child.
Save as disclosed below, none of the directors had any interest in any other securities of the Company or any other company in the Group.
J S Gummer M J Kirkwood 15,000 15,000 J W Poulter 11,000 11,000 1 or date of appointment if later.
2 These shares comprise: 54,611 Deferred shares and 91,018 Matching shares under the Bonus Investment Plan.
Matching shares are awarded conditional upon the Deferred shares being retained in trust until 14 March 2006.
The only changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2003 and 3 March 2004 relate to the purchase by J M Harper on 2 January 2004 of 163 shares for his PEP.
Audited Information The following information has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Individual Directors Remuneration The remuneration of the directors of Kidde plc for the year ended 31 December 2003 is set out below.
2 Benefits comprise all tax assessable benefits arising from employment by the Company.
These include a non-contributory pension, fully expensed company car, medical and permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Benefits included use of a company car, fuel and medical insurance.
5 Mr Kirkwoods fees are paid to the Charities Aid Foundation.
No sums were paid in respect of compensation for loss of office.
No director waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003.
Directors pension entitlements Increase in Transfer value Accrued pension, 000 Transfer value, 000 accrued of increase in Age pension in accrued pension 1 1 at At Increase in At At Increase in At year in year 31.12.03 31.12.02 year 31.12.03 31.12.02 year 31.12.03, 000, 000 J M Harper 58 301 49 350 4,617 1,248 5,865 41 685 J E Nicholas 47 82 18 100 488 202 690 16 107 These figures have been restated.
Due to an actuarial error, the 2002 figures in last years remuneration report were understated.
None of the other directors are eligible for pension benefits.
1 The increase in the additional pension earned during the year is reported excluding inflation.
The directors did not make any personal contributions to the scheme.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 60 based on service to 31 December 2003.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Institute of Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values and by reference to market conditions at the date of valuation.
Transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual directors.
12 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Interests in Share Options and Share Awards The interests of the directors holding office at 31 December 2003 in the share capital of the Company pursuant to share options and share awards are set out below.
Performance shares can vest on the achievement of the required performance criteria outlined in the remuneration policy and expire ten years from the date of award.
The Company has established an Employee Benefit Trust EBT to operate in conjunction with its share schemes.
As participants in the share schemes, the executive directors have a potential interest in any shares acquired by the EBT.
No awards vested or lapsed during the year.
No other directors have been granted share options or awards in the shares in the Company or other Group entities or have an interest in any options or awards.
None of the terms and conditions of the share options or awards was varied during the year.
All awards were granted in respect of qualifying services and were granted at nil cost to the directors and were in respect of past performance.
At 31 December 2003, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was 100% for shares awarded in June 2001, 100% for shares awarded in November 2002 and 85% for shares awarded in March 2003.
The market price of the Companys shares on 31 December 2003 was 106.5p and ranged from 56p to 114.75p during the year.
The market price of the Companys shares on 5 March 2003, the date awards were made under the Performance Share Plan, was 59.5p.
The market price of the Companys shares on 24 November 2003, the date Mr Harper exercised his executive share options, was 108.5p.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2004 and signed on its behalf by: J W Poulter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
