DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION The report below has been prepared by the remuneration which owns Monks Partnership, provided minor consultancy committee and approved by the Board.
The Companys services relating to employment taxation to the Company auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have audited all the tables of data during the year.
The committee was assisted in its work by the and related footnotes in this report, and any other items company secretary, who also acts as secretary to the stipulated, by law, for their review.
committee, and received recommendations from the chief executive in relation to remuneration of executive directors The Remuneration Committee and senior managers.
The remuneration committee was established in November The Combined Code 1993, and its terms of reference were most recently revised in November 2002.
Its principal functions are: The June 1998 version of the Combined Code referred to on page 10 contains various requirements relating to to make recommendations to the Board on the Companys directors remuneration, which have been applied as noted in framework of executive remuneration: this report.
The Company complies and has throughout the to determine individual remuneration packages within that year complied with all of the Codes principles and provisions.
framework for the executive directors and senior Importantly, no director ever plays any part in setting the level employees: of his own remuneration.
to oversee the administration of the Companys share option schemes: and The committee has noted the suggestions for best practice to review directors expenses, concerning remuneration contained in the revised Combined Code published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
Council and is pleased to confirm that the Company is fully compliant.
The committee comprises Roger Phillimore chairman, Current remuneration policy and practice Peter Godsoe, Michael Hartnall and Sir Alastair Morton.
All of its members are independent non-executive directors, who Non-Executive Directors The fees of the non-executive have no financial interest other than as shareholders in the directors are determined by the Board, with the benefit matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest of professional advice.
When deciding an appropriate level of arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day fee for each non-executive director, the Board considers the involvement in running the business of the Group.
Given their responsibility and time commitment required of each diverse backgrounds and experience, these four independent individual, taking into account the number of meetings each non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view on attends, the time required for reading Board and other papers, executive remuneration issues.
The committee met six times their membership or chairmanship of Board committees or during the year, and has met on a further two occasions in the case of Sir John Craven chairmanship of the Board, and between the year end and the date of this report.
the significant overseas travel required of all non-executive directors by the Company.
During the year, the committee was advised by Monks Partnership, an independent firm of remuneration consultants During the year the fees of the non-executive directors were who were appointed by the committee and report exclusively reviewed by the Board with the benefit of professional advice, to the committee.
Monks Partnership had no other provided by Monks Partnership.
The non-executive directors involvement with the Company or Group during the year, save did not play any part in these deliberations.
The catalyst for for the provision of advice on the level of the non-executive the review was the increased, and increasing, responsibilities directors fees to the Company.
, imposed on non-executive directors by the needs of good 14 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION corporate governance, the Companys need to ensure that it executive directors will be eligible to participate.
Further can continue to attract and retain individuals of the highest details of these proposals are set out in the circular calibre and the demands made on our non-executive directors containing the notice of annual general meeting circulated resulting from the extent of strategic repositioning.
The with this annual report.
The committee believes that conclusion of the review was that fee levels were no longer participation in this plan and the annual cash bonus scheme adequate in current and foreseen circumstances and should create a more meaningful performance-related accordingly an adjustment was made, as reflected in element in each directors overall remuneration, and the table of remuneration in this report.
therefore enhance the focus on the creation of shareholder value over the longer term.
Executive Directors The remuneration committees objective is to provide the Company with a remuneration framework The committee is alert to the danger of paying more than enabling it to attract, retain and motivate executive directors is necessary, and intends to closely monitor both basic pay of the required quality, but without paying more than is and total remuneration for executive directors and senior necessary for this purpose.
In setting the remuneration of managers in the light of individual and corporate individuals within this framework, the committee seeks to performance, to ensure that the Companys reward give the executive directors every encouragement to enhance structures remain appropriate.
the Companys performance whilst ensuring that they are fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their individual The basic components comprising the remuneration package contributions.
The committee also monitors the elements of each executive director in the year under review were basic and amounts of remuneration paid by comparable companies pay, benefits in kind, an annual cash bonus, participation in and takes account of relative performance.
the Companys share schemes and membership of an occupational pension scheme.
Based on advice received from its consultants, the committee Service contracts believes that the overall values of the remuneration packages of the executive directors are broadly comparable to those The service contracts of Edward Haslam, Ian Farmer and John awarded by peer group companies.
However, the analysis Robinson for part of the year provided for periods of notice of produced for the committee demonstrates that, relative to more than one year.
These notice periods reduced on a month comparable companies, the current pay structures provide for month basis between 1 October 2002 at which time the insufficient incentives by way of performance-related required notice was fifteen months and 31 December 2002 remuneration.
The committee firmly believes that for when the notice period was reduced to 364 days.
All the executive directors to succeed in delivering value to executive directors now have notice periods of 364 days.
shareholders over the long term, they need to be given a more material and clearly identifiable incentive element The remuneration committee would be responsible for within their individual remuneration packages.
settling any payment to be made if a directors employment ended, and would have full regard to the provisions of the As a first step towards this more performance-related Combined Code and other components of best practice in this remuneration strategy, the committee introduced the area.
In particular, no director is contractually entitled to a opportunity for all executive directors, and selected senior payment in lieu of notice and the committee would have managers, to earn an annual cash bonus during the year.
regard to the individuals legal duty to mitigate their loss Further details of this scheme are set out in this report.
when settling any compensation due following termination The annual general meeting of the Company in 2004 will of employment.
be asked to approve a new incentive plan in which the 15 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Edward Haslam holds a contract with the Company dated No executive director holds any executive directorship or 18 October 2002.
This is a rolling contract terminable other appointment outside the Group.
It is both the Companys than for gross misconduct and certain other circumstances policy, and generally a requirement of the individuals contract which may result in summary dismissal on 364 days prior of employment, that no executive director may take up such written notice by either the Company or the individual.
In the an appointment without the approval of the Board.
event of termination, the Company is entitled to impose a period of gardening leave of up to six months, if it so chooses.
The Board believes that in the right circumstances the holding of non-executive directorships and similar Ian Farmer holds a contract with the Company dated appointments by executive directors can be useful and 15 October 2001, and John Robinson holds a contract with appropriate if they help those involved gain additional skills the Company dated 1 April 1999 most recently amended by and experience, or promote the interests of the Group.
Whilst avariation dated 15 October 2001, both of which are in it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual virtually identical form to that of Mr Haslam.
holding such a role outside the Group would generally be permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating Peter Ledger is based in South Africa and has a contract with to that appointment.
the Group dated 6 October 1988, most recently amended by a variation dated 25 November 2002.
He is employed on a rolling Mr Haslam is a non-executive director of Ashanti Goldfields contract terminable on 364 days prior written notice by either Company Limited and of Furuya Metals Co Limited, Tokyo.
the Company or the individual.
Mr Farmer is a non-executive director of the International Platinum Association.
Neither retains any remuneration in The non-executive directors are each appointed for respect of their services to these companies.
a fixed period of three years, subject to the provisions Performance graphs of the Companys articles of association for retirement by rotation and for earlier cessation for any other reason.
No The primary role of the directors is to deliver value to compensation would be payable to non-executive directors shareholders, and it is against this backdrop that their for loss of office, save for any arrears of fees.
The following graphs show the value, at 30 September 2003, of 100 invested in Lonmins Non-Group Directorships Sam Jonah is the chief executive of shares five years previously, compared with the current value Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited and has, and during the of the same amount invested at the same date in the FTSE All year has had, no executive role with Lonmin Plc.
He was, until Share index and the FTSE Mining Sector.
The Company is a 28 February 2003, an employee of the Company and up to this constituent of both these indices, and the Board believes that date Lonmin provided his remuneration and other benefits, these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Companys with Ashanti reimbursing the Company in full.
From 1 March performance in delivering value to shareholders relative to 2003 onwards, Ashanti has paid Dr Jonah directly, although he both the market as a whole and its peers.
has continued to serve as a non-executive director of Lonmin Plc.
Dr Jonah is also a director of several non-Group companies and organisations.
16 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION 500.0 500.0 Lonmin TSR FTSE All Share Index Lonmin TSR FTSE Mining Sector 450.0 450.0 400.0 400.0 350.0 350.0 300.0 300.0 250.0 250.0 200.0 200.0 150.0 150.0 100.0 100.0 50.0 50.0 0.0 0.0 Sep-98 Mar-99 Sep-99 Mar-00 Sep-00 Mar-01 Sep-01 Mar-02 Sep-02 Mar-03 Sep-03 Sep-98 Mar-99 Sep-99 Mar-00 Sep-00 Mar-01 Sep-01 Mar-02 Sep-02 Mar-03 Sep-03 Source: Cazenove Directors remuneration For the year ended 30 September 2003 the directors were remunerated as follows: Salary Bonus Benefits Total for Total for 1 and fees in kind year to year to 30.9.
02 Director Executive directors Edward Haslam 451,170 186,018 51,878 689,066 472,029 Ian Farmer 248,745 85,568 36,785 371,098 277,194 2 Peter Ledger 200,002 71,730 26,465 298,197 John Robinson 281,190 96,729 23,057 400,976 295,054 Non-executive directors Sir John Craven 204,529 204,529 120,000 3 Peter Godsoe 60,000 60,000 41,984 4 Peter Harper 6,212 6,212 50,000 5 Michael Hartnall 24,760 24,760 6 Sam Jonah 50,000 50,000 50,000 Sir Alastair Morton 80,000 80,000 45,000 Roger Phillimore 107,442 107,442 60,000 Notes 1 Benefits in kind for the executive directors comprised the provision of a fully- 4 Mr Harper retired on 26 October 2002. expensed car, the provision of annual health checks and private medical insurance 5 Mr Hartnall was appointed a director on 8 May 2003 and his remuneration and, in the case of Mr Haslam and Mr Farmer, a childrens education allowance.
disclosed above relates to the period of approximately five months from Mr Haslam also benefits from life assurance in excess of the Inland Revenue then until the year-end.
earnings cap, the cost of which is taxable as a benefit in kind and which is 6 The figures set out above for Dr Jonah are for the entire year under review included in the table above.
and relate solely to his remuneration as a director of the Company which, 2 Mr Ledger was appointed a director on 21 November 2002 and his remuneration as explained above, was in a non-executive capacity.
disclosed above relates to the period of approximately ten months from then until 7 No director received any expense allowances or any compensation for loss the year-end.
of office during the year.
3Mr Godsoe was appointed a director on 29 November 2001.
The comparator figure 8 Although the Groups functional currency is US dollars, these figures are stated for the year to 30 September 2002 therefore relates to a period of approximately in sterling as the directors emoluments are predominantly paid in this currency.
9 The data in this table has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc.
17 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual cash bonuses Economic Empowerment in South Africa, to continue our As part of its initiative to increase the proportion of strong track record of protecting the environment and performance-related incentive pay, during the year, the development of the Companys future strategy.
remuneration committee introduced an annual cash bonus scheme for the executive directors and key senior executives The weighting between the two elements is 65 35 for the of the Company and Lonplats.
The scheme enables the executive directors and 80 20 for senior managers, due to directors to earn a bonus of up to 40% of their basic pay their lower involvement in strategic direction.
The committee 50% in the case of the chief executive if the targets set believes that a scheme of this type helps to provide an within the scheme are met.
appropriate degree of performance-related pay within the executives overall remuneration, so creating a meaningful The committee examined different methods of evaluating incentive to out-perform.
The Companys financial results are Pensions heavily affected by the commodity pricing of the metals we mine, refine and sell, and by the exchange rate of the currency Defined benefit arrangements Edward Haslam, in which our costs are incurred the South African rand Ian Farmer and John Robinson are members of the Lonmin against the US dollar.
The combined effect of these two Superannuation Scheme, an Inland Revenue approved variables, over which the Company has no control, is that our UK contributory final salary scheme established as a trust profit and earnings per share figures are extremely volatile, independent of the Company which provides benefits for all and not predictable.
For this reason, the committee concluded UK employees of Lonmin Plc.
The scheme is fully funded and that it did not have a profit measure available to it that was normal retirement age for all members in service at or after sufficiently robust or capable of forward projection.
Since 1 April 1998 is 60: members in service prior to that date can the purpose of the annual bonus plan is to drive superior opt to retire at 65.
The trust deed requires active members to management performance over the short term, it was decided make contributions to the scheme from salary and the to base the plan on those key measures that are capable of Company to contribute in line with the recommendations responding to management influence.
of the scheme actuary, at the trustees request.
The Company has on the actuarys advice contributed to the scheme during The bonus comprises two elements being: the year.
the operational element equally weighted between platinum production measured in troy ounces, production The scheme is designed to enable all members to obtain cost control in local currency terms in terms of annual agood standard of benefit from secure and well managed percentage increase and mine safety performance investments within the Inland Revenue maximum at normal measured as a rate relative to millions of man hours retirement subject to their having completed appropriate worked, with stretching targets needing to be achieved periods of service.
The scheme is contracted-out of the State before payment can result: and arrangements and is fully compliant with all relevant the strategic element an assessment of the progress made legislation and regulatory requirements.
Independent advice is in achieving the corporate developments needed to help sought by the Company and trustees when administering the ensure that we deliver value to shareholders over the longScheme and managing the assets.
The trustees meet quarterly term.
Whilst this element is inherently more subjective, the to review and manage all aspects of the scheme.
committees objective in creating this bonus element was to reward material progress in addressing the immediate Commutation of pension is permitted at retirement, so strategic imperatives facing the Company.
For the year under enabling members to exchange part of their pension for review these were primarily the need to address Black a tax-free lump sum, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
18 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION In the event of death whilst in service a capital sum equal to 6 April 1997 will increase by the lower of three per cent and four times salary is payable by the trustees together with a the increase in RPI.
pension to a qualifying spouse or dependant of two-thirds of the prospective pension which would become payable to the The Inland Revenue earnings cap restricts both pension and member at age 60.
In certain circumstances where there are life assurance benefits for higher paid employees who became young children or children in full-time education or vocational members of their scheme on or after 1 June 1989.
It therefore training, an allowance would also be payable to them.
does not apply to Ian Farmer and John Robinson, each being members before that date.
It does apply to Edward Haslam In the event of death after leaving service but prior to and as a consequence he benefits from an unfunded retirement, a pension would be payable to a qualifying retirement benefit scheme operating on a defined benefits spouse or dependant.
basis, which is included in the data disclosed below.
In the case of death after retirement, a spouses pension of Prior to joining the UK scheme on 12 November 1999, two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension would Mr Haslam was a member of The Lonmin Superannuation be payable, revalued up to the date of death.
If the members Scheme Overseas.
This plan was established in Jersey to death occurs within five years of retirement, the balance of provide benefits broadly similar to those under the UK scheme the five years unpaid pension would also be payable.
for those directors and senior executives of the Group employed overseas.
Mr Haslam retains accrued benefits In line with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995, in this scheme as a deferred member, which are included in pensions accrued since 6 April 1997 are once in payment the numerical disclosures.
increased each year by the lower of five per cent and the increase in UK retail price inflation RPI.
Pensions in excess Further details of the executive directors defined pension of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension accrued prior to benefits are: Director Additional Accrued Transfer Transfer Increase Increase Increase pension pension value of value of in transfer in transfer in transfer 2 4 earned in at 30.9.
03 accrued accrued value value net of value net of 1 the year pension at pension at employees inflation and 3 5 30.9.
03 contributions employees 6 contributions Edward Haslam 11,739 140,659 2,304,030 2,656,690 352,660 347,755 284,187 Ian Farmer 6,734 78,740 537,450 644,050 106,600 94,359 79,531 John Robinson 8,769 128,567 1,311,720 1,529,450 217,730 203,867 167,676 Notes 4 The increase in transfer value represents the additional capital amount necessary 1 This additional pension earned in the year is stated without allowance for UK to fund the increase in the accrued pension that the director would be entitled to retail price inflation of 2.8% year-on-year.
There were no changes to the basis on take with him as part of the total transfer value, were he to leave the Company which benefits accrued during the year.
and move his benefits to another scheme.
The figure therefore reflects prevailing 2 The pension entitlement shown above is that which would be paid annually on market conditions at the date on which it is evaluated.
For clarity, the transfer retirement at age 60, but based on service to 30 September 2003.
The normal value is not a sum due to the director.
retirement dates for the three directors are 17 April 2004 Edward Haslam, 5 This adjusts the increase in transfer value to reflect the fact that the director 25 March 2022 Ian Farmer and 4 August 2014 John Robinson.
has shared in the funding of the increased pension provision by contributing 5% 3 The Institute and Faculty of Actuaries introduced a new basis of calculating of his basic pay to the scheme.
transfer values during the year, and the prior year figures above have been 6 This adjusts further the increase in transfer value to reflect UK retail price restated to take account of this change so that they are directly comparable inflation of 2.8%.
7 The data in this table has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc.
19 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION The pension entitlements shown in the table exclude any The purpose of the scheme is to provide directors and benefits that might be attributable to additional voluntary employees with an incentive to deliver value to shareholders contributions.
and, by exercising their option, to benefit directly from their contribution to furthering the interests of the Group.
Since Defined contribution arrangements Sam Jonah has a personal 1994, this has been achieved by making the exercise of options pension arrangement.
This is a non-contributory arrangement by all participants subject to stretching but realistic funded until 28 February 2003 by the Company and fully performance conditions relating to the delivery of value to reimbursed pursuant to an agreement with Ashanti Goldfields shareholders, which must be met before the option can be Company Limited.
Since that date, Ashanti has been exercised.
Details of these for the Companys various executive responsible for Dr Jonahs pension provision.
No figures share option schemes are as follows: are therefore given for Dr Jonah.
Options granted before 1994 in common with virtually all Peter Ledger is a member of the Sentinel Mining Industry plans in force at that time, and in full accord with best Retirement Fund, an industry-wide defined contribution plan practice then in force, exercise was not subject to attainment established in South Africa.
of their salaries and their employer contributes a total of 20.52 per cent.
which the fund uses to provide retirement, Options granted in or after 1994 but before 1998 exercise disability and death benefits.
For the year ended 30 September was subject to attainment of the performance condition that, 2003, these employer contributions amounted to 26,979 over a consecutive three-year period, the total return to R341,145 $43,293.
This data has been audited by KPMG shareholders was greater than the total return on the Audit Plc.
FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index during the same period.
That condition was attained during 2000 and the options Pensions generally granted during this period became exercisable.
No element of any directors remuneration other than basic salary is pensionable.
Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002 exercise was subject to attainment of a similar performance condition.
Except as disclosed above, the Company has given no However, to relate the condition specifically to the industry undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension in which we operate this required that the total return to benefits for any director.
No former director enjoys pension shareholders over a consecutive three-year period must be benefits in excess of those provided, in accordance with the greater than the total return on the Mining Sector of the FTSE provisions of the trust deeds and rules, to all members of the Actuaries Share Indices.
The conditions attaching to the relevant scheme.
options granted in 1998, 1999 and 2000 were attained in 2001, 2002 and October 2003 respectively and these options Share schemes became exercisable.
Executive share option schemes Eligibility to participate in these schemes is not subject to a performance criterion, and Options granted in or after 2002 whilst exercise remains the executive directors are therefore able to receive a grant subject to achievement of total shareholder return TSR of options, save that anyone in the final year of employment greater than that on the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries before retirement cannot be granted an option.
On this basis, Share Indices, this must be achieved in one of the periods of options were granted to three executive directors during the three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each year, as shown in the table of share options.
case relative to a fixed base year.
Further information on the performance condition is given in note 22 to the Accounts.
20 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Company routinely assesses whether these performance included in the table of shareholdings on page 7.
No other conditions have been met by reference to both published data, directors participate in this arrangement.
and information supplied by its advisers.
Sharesave Share plan The Company offers an Inland Revenue approved In addition, the Board is mindful of the limited availability savings-related share option scheme to all UK-remunerated of proven and experienced managers in South Africa and employees, including certain of the executive directors.
Under the consequent need to provide existing management this scheme, the participant enters into a savings contract with meaningful incentive packages, making them more likely and in return is granted an option over the Companys shares to remain in our employment.
to be funded by the balance on their savings account at the end of the contractual savings period.
The option price may, The Company therefore established an independent trust at the Boards discretion, be at a discount of up to 20% to which has purchased shares of the Company in the market, the prevailing mid-market price at the time of granting.
funded by a loan from the Company of 3.8 million The Company has historically granted all such options $5.4 million.
The trust currently holds 346,000 ordinary with a 20% discount.
shares of US$1 each, which are held for issue to selected key Share schemes generally managers of Lonplats but not the Company over a five-year period, under the rules of the Lonmin Plc Share Plan.
This is Except under the savings-related share option schemes and designed as an employee retention scheme, although there the Lonmin Plc Share Plan, no options have been granted is an inherent incentive element since participants will that have an exercise price at a discount to the market price benefit from any increase in the Lonmin share price.
For at the time the exercise price was set.
No options have been administrative and other reasons the trust has not allocated granted to non-executive directors, although Dr Jonah retains shares outright to participants, but has granted options over the right to exercise the options granted to him during his 339,240 shares at a price of 0.01 per share.
Peter Ledger was period of executive service.
Directors are strongly encouraged granted and exercised options under the plan prior to his to hold the shares issued to them upon the exercise appointment as a director and the resulting shares are of options.
21 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION The options held by directors over ordinary shares of the company are set out in the table below: Shares under option Options exercised 1 1.10.02 Exercise Scheme and Date of grant Date from Date on Date Number Exercise Market Notional 3 or later 30.9.
03 price performance which which of of price price pre-tax 2 4 date of and condition normally first option exercise shares gain appointment 25.11.03 exercisable lapses Shares Shares of $1 of $1 Pence Pence Pence Ian Farmer 60,000 60,000 668.5 c 3 8.6.
13 94,986 121,986 Notes 1 The share option schemes under which these options were granted are : 5The opening balance for Mr Ledger relates to 21 November 2002, a The Lonmin Overseas and Associate Share Option Scheme the date on which he was appointed a director.
b The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 1994 6 The data in this table has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc.
c The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme formerly The Lonmin Overseas and Associate Share Option Scheme 1994 No cash consideration was required for the grant of options.
d The Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994.
Except as disclosed above, no options held by directors were 2 The performance conditions are fully explained in the narrative, but are briefly: 1 No performance condition attaches since these were not generally required exercised or lapsed during the year or to the date of this at the time the option was granted report.
By way of comparison with the exercise prices, the 2TSR exceeds that achieved on the FTSE All-Share index over any 3 years 3TSR exceeds that achieved on the FTSE mining sector over any 3 years closing middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary 4TSR exceeds that achieved on the FTSE mining sector over 3, 4, 5 or 6 years shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 3 The market price is the closing middle market price per share on the date Official List, was 933p on 30 September 2003, and the price of exercise.
4The notional pre-tax gain is the difference between the market price and the ranged between 661.5p and 999.5p during the financial year.
The total notional pre-tax gains made by directors exercising options during the year was 66,938 2002 4 directors, 2,836,619.
22 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Future remuneration philosophy, that the incentive plans, performance conditions and levels policy and practice at which payment is triggered should be designed with the During the year the remuneration committee has, with the objective that they can be operated throughout the assistance of Monks Partnership, undertaken a full review of economic cycle: the make-up of, and balance between elements within, the that the design of the incentive plans must not engender executive directors remuneration.
It has also assessed the management actions that could expose the shareholders likely needs of the Group in future years and identified a peer to undue risk: and group against which it may be competing for the recruitment that accountability and transparency can be maintained of executive directors and senior managers.
The committee and demonstrated at all times.
believes that a greater proportion of performance-related remuneration is required in future if its directors are to The committee has proposed, and the Board has endorsed, achieve the levels of medium and long term out-performance a future remuneration strategy based on a blend of some, that the Boards strategic vision requires.
or all, of: basic pay: The review identified a number of areas where the Company benefits in kind: would be unable to compete with its peers when developing an opportunity to earn an annual cash bonus: remuneration packages for individual directors.
In addition, the award of shares under the Companys executive it identified that the current packages fail adequately to align share option schemes and or the proposed long-term directors interests with those of shareholders over the incentive plan: medium and longer term.
The committee believes that by participation in a deferred annual bonus plan incentivising the directors more heavily than at present, it comprising part of the proposed incentive plan : and will help achieve the stretching goals that the Board has set membership of an occupational pension scheme.
and therefore deliver value to shareholders.
It is the committees intention that in future a significant proportion The proposed Shareholder Value Incentive Plan comprises of total reward will be linked to the achievement of new arrangements for the Company.
Full details of this, the demanding performance targets directly relating to the adoption of which requires shareholder approval, are set out delivery of value to shareholders.
in the circular to shareholders containing the notice of annual general meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
The The committees policy is built on the following principles: Company has discussed these proposals with its major that base pay should not be excessive, and should shareholders, and appropriate institutional bodies such as therefore be at around median market levels, but that the Association of British Insurers, and taken note of their upper quartile performance should lead to potential upper comments and views wherever possible.
quartile total reward: that total reward should be capable of reaching top Ultimately, the committee believes that the interests of quartile levels, but such that a significant proportion of pay the directors and senior managers will best be aligned with is at risk: those of shareholders by requiring that personally significant that incentive reward must only be earned through shareholdings are built up and retained.
For this reason, the achievement of demanding performance conditions, set Board has introduced a shareholding policy, which is explained in a manner consistent with shareholders interests over fully below.
all time periods: 23 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Benchmarking methodology Proposed new Lonmin Plc Shareholder Value Incentive Plan The committee has analysed remuneration practices in companies of similar turnover and market capitalisation, The committee proposes to implement a new long term and also in UK and overseas companies undertaking similar incentive plan comprising three elements: activities to the Group.
From these analyses, it has identified a new deferred annual bonus plan: arelevant peer group, with which we would be likely to be in a new long-term incentive plan: and direct competition in the recruitment of executive talent.
a revised executive share option plan.
The aim of the remuneration committee is to ensure that our remuneration framework is competitive with those of the peer Further details of the plan are set out in the circular group companies, without generating excessive reward for containing the notice of annual general meeting which Lonmins directors and senior executives.
Basic pay Directors shareholding obligation Whilst the committee tends to have regard to overall Ultimately, the committee believes that the most powerful remuneration, including performance-related elements, way of ensuring that the actions of the directors are best individuals inevitably focus on headline basic pay, especially aligned with shareholders interests is for the directors to at the point of recruitment.
For this reason, the Company will build up and retain personally significant holdings of the need to offer salaries at around median market levels.
As a matter of policy, the Board expects all will enable us to attract and retain suitable directors and directors to acquire an interest in the Companys shares, over executives in future, without paying more than is necessary.
the five years to 30 September 2008, equal in value to 100% of their basic pay or, in the case of non-executive directors, fees Annual cash bonus and 150% in the case of the chief executive.
In this way, As explained earlier in this report, the ability for directors to shareholder value becomes a paramount principle underlying earn an annual cash bonus forms a powerful incentive to meet all Board decisions, since real personal wealth will be at stake.
The committee proposes to continue to Failure to achieve these targets may result in exclusion from provide cash bonuses using the broad design of scheme participation in some or all of the incentive schemes that the introduced in 2002.
For the financial year 200304 the scheme Company operates.
will again be operated on a blend of operational measures Pensions 80% and strategic measures 20%.
To ensure that individual performance is more precisely recognised, certain additional The committee is monitoring the recent green paper on elements of bonus will be based on the achievement of pensions and the Inland Revenue proposals on their tax personal objectives in support of the corporate goals, although treatment, and the gradually unfolding debate on these operational targets will remain common to all individuals issues.
Until such time as the likely nature of the regulatory bonus objectives.
framework is known with more clarity, the committee is unable to frame detailed proposals as to how the Company Of necessity, the design of individual bonus plans will evolve can treat pensions within its remuneration framework.
For from year to year, in line with the Companys strategic needs.
the time being, therefore, the current arrangements will The committee will continue to monitor the competitive remain in full force and effect.
environment and will devise amended or new plans in future years to ensure that the Company can continue to recruit, This report was approved by the Board on 25 November 2003. retain and motivate the most able senior executives, and that they are given the clearest possible incentive to deliver exceptional value to shareholders.
Roger Phillimore, Chairman, remuneration committee 24 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003
