Misys plc Financial review OPERATING RESULTS for the year ended 31 May 2005 REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT RETURN ON REVENUE 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m % % Like for like operations Banking 238 222 43 37 18 17 Healthcare 288 273 43 40 15 15 General Insurance 34 31 16 15 47 46 Sesame 319 335 6 10 2 3 Group 6 5 Total like for like 879 861 102 97 11 11 Operating exceptional items 9 8 Businesses disposed of 13 Acquisitions 9 Goodwill amortisation 52 64 Changes in exchange rates 26 5 Statutory operating results from continuing operations 888 900 41 30 i.
The statutory operating profit from continuing operations is analysed by business into Banking: 35.5m 2004: 26.9m, Healthcare 20.2m 2004: 20.7m, General Insurance 15.8m 2004: 14.8m, Sesame 24.6m loss 2004: 26.9m loss and Group costs 6.3m 2004: 5.3m.
The businesses disposed of in the prior year related solely to the Banking Division and in the prior year contributed incremental revenue of 13.3m and operated at breakeven.
The businesses acquired in the current and prior year contributed incremental revenue and operating profit pre goodwill amortisation for Banking: revenue of 7.3m and a profit of 0.5m and for Healthcare: revenue of 2.6m and a loss of 0.8m.
v. Restating the results for 2004 using the average exchange rates for 2005 has decreased 2004 revenues by 26.3m Banking: 5.6m and Healthcare: 20.7m and operating profit by 4.5m Banking: 1.3m and Healthcare: 3.2m.
The most significant impact is from the movement in the US dollar, where the average exchange rate in 2005 was US$1.86:1 compared to US$1.73:1 in 2004.
To assist the readers understanding Overall Group revenues for the year at by the reduction in profits at Sesame.
of the results, the table above shows 879m were 2% above those of the Group operating margins were broadly the results for all businesses owned previous year.
in line with the prior year.
throughout both periods on a like-forBanking, Healthcare and General Banking like basis and also reconciles these to Insurance all generated increased The momentum achieved in the the figures as reported in the statutory revenues and operating profit, second half of the previous year was profit and loss account.
The like-forreflecting our continued investment maintained throughout 2004 05 with like results are stated before the in key products and underpinned by total revenues at 238m rising by 7%.
operating exceptional items and the stronger underlying market conditions, Initial Licence Fees ILF order intake charge for goodwill amortisation, particularly in Banking.
Sesames at 76m was 16% ahead of the prior and exclude the results of businesses revenues were 5% below the previous year, resulting in both strong growth in disposed of and the incremental benefit year, reflecting a continuation of the ILF revenues, up 13% for the full year, of acquisitions.
Figures are quoted in weaker market conditions seen over and an 18% increase in the closing sterling using average exchange rates the last two years.
The 2% overall order book to 31m.
As a consequence for the year ended 31 May 2005. growth in Group revenues flowed of the extended nature of contract GROUP AND BUSINESS through to operating profit, which at negotiation and implementation the PERFORMANCE 102m was 5% above the prior year, ILF order book is being recognised over Group notwithstanding increased development a longer period than has historically The information in this section relating expenditure in both Banking and been the case.
to the Group and businesses financial Healthcare.
Strong growth in profits in results are on a like-for-like basis, as Banking and good growth in Healthcare defined and presented above.
and General Insurance was partly offset www.
com Banking, Healthcare and General Insurance all generated increased revenues and operating profit, reflecting our continued investment in key products.
Maintenance revenues at 112m again Maintenance revenues also showed General Insurance showed modest growth at 2% ahead good growth at 7% ahead of last year.
Record revenues at 34m were 8% of last year.
More significantly, In contrast, transaction services ahead of last year driven by our professional services revenues which revenues fell by 1%.
continued commitment to product had declined for a number of years development.
Our new product As previously indicated, one-off costs grew strongly, particularly in the first launches have performed well.
Premium relating to the integration of Misys half, with total revenues at 46m, Finance revenues were boosted by the CPR have been incurred over the last 12% higher than the previous year.
substantial increase in electronic two years and this integration was The closing order book for professional transmission of documentation between completed in line with our original services is ahead of a year ago and this, finance providers and intermediaries plans by 31 May 2005.
The costs together with the stronger ILF order whilst OASys Commercial, which incurred in financial year 2004 05 intake, means that further growth in supports the digitisation of commercial amount to 3.4m which were in professional services revenue should lines insurance, is well positioned for addition to 2.4m incurred in the be seen in 2005 06. future growth.
With good cost control 19 year ended 31 May 2004.
In addition, and the strong growth in revenues, Operating profit at 43m was 17% as announced in June 2004, investment operating profit at 16m set another ahead of last year reflecting both the in the Misys EMR product is being new record for the business.
strong growth in revenues and accelerated and it is anticipated that improving margins.
the incremental spend over the two Sesame years ended 31 May 2006 will be With the Financial Services Authority Healthcare 4.3m.
These expenditures are also FSA extending its reach to include the Revenues at 288m were 6% ahead proceeding according to plan with regulation of mortgages and general of last year with growth occurring in costs of 2.2m incurred in the year insurance during the past year, Sesame all major revenue streams with the ended 31 May 2005.
It is expected has created innovative market-leading exception of transaction processing.
that the balance of these costs will be product and service propositions for its Order intake for professional services incurred in the current financial year, existing and future members.
was ahead in all businesses, feeding with the majority in the first half.
These Membership growth over the year was through to revenues, which at 29m costs, and those related to Misys CPR, encouraging: the number of Registered grew 10% in the year.
This growth have not been treated as exceptional Individuals RIs across Sesames reflects the increasing importance of and have been charged against regulated network of appointed professional services in our total order operating profits.
representatives together with Sesame intake mix.
Direct, the service company for directly Operating profit at 43m was 6% regulated firms, grew by over 20% ILF order intake at 56m was 7% ahead of last year, notwithstanding the to 8,150 members at the year end.
This reflected the increased investment in Misys CPR and continued strong demand for Misys Misys EMR.
At 17%, margins before Revenues at 319m were 5% below EMR and Misys Homecare, partly offset the increased investment in Misys CPR last year, although the rate of reduction by reduced ILF order intake in Hospital and Misys EMR were slightly ahead of slowed in the second half.
Operating Systems as a result of delays in last year.
Margins after the increased profit of 6m was 4m below last year, finalising a number of larger Misys CPR investment were broadly in line with although slightly ahead of internal orders.
Growth in ILF order intake led the prior year.
expectations at the start of the year, to growth in ILF revenues, which at as mortgage revenue started earlier 57m were 5% ahead of the prior year.
than expected and there were benefits Misys plc Financial review continued from the delay of costs associated with capital at risk products was carried out the launch of the multi-tie proposition.
by the FSA during the year.
As a result of the review Sesame agreed to Misys announced on 11 July 2005 that reassess the conclusions reached on Sesame had sold its 60% stake in historic complaints received, and based AssureWeb Limited, the B2B internet on the results of this work to date a portal for transaction of life and charge of 3m has been recorded pensions business, to the five existing during the year.
In addition, Sesame investing providers AEGON UK, Clerical has agreed to a review of promotional Medical, Friends Provident, Norwich material and carry out a review of the Union and Scottish Widows.
The suitability of a sample of sales selected investing providers will see their from the general population of sales of collective ownership stake in structured capital at risk products made AssureWeb increase from 40% to by its member networks.
100% and have now taken full operational responsibility.
At present, it is not possible to estimate the costs of review or redress that may Operating exceptional items be incurred as a result of any further A net operating exceptional charge review work, including that in respect of 9m has been made this year in of promotional material that may be relation to regulatory review and future required.
As a result no provision has endowment complaints costs.
been made for this potential liability.
During the year, along with the rest Further review work is likely to result in of the industry, Sesame experienced additional provisions being made which 20 a significant increase in the volume themselves may be material but, in the of complaints from consumers about opinion of the Directors, should not advice given by IFAs regarding sales have a material effect on the value of of endowment polices.
This is due to the Misys Group.
increased consumer awareness, recent Overall Group The charges in the current year have poor stock market conditions and been partly offset by a credit of 4m revenues for the action taken by the majority of product following a reappraisal of the 8m providers to crystallise their liabilities year at 879m provision charged last year in respect with regard to past endowment were 2% above of a specific review in relation to a complaints.
Given the significant levels former member network.
those of the of endowment complaints currently being received, the increasing rate at Further details of these items can be previous year.
which these are being upheld and the found in notes 2, 27 and 32 to the expectation that the volume of future financial statements.
complaints will be significant, a Group costs provision of 10m has been made for The net charge for the year, at 6m, the Directors best estimate of the cost is an increase of 1m on last year and of complaints that will be received in includes 3m 2004: 3m profit arising the future with respect to past sales on the disposal of warrants held in of endowments.
relation to WebMDs common stock.
Separately, and in common with other This is the last of the three tranches companies in the sector, a thematic of warrants and accordingly Group review of Sesames and its predecessor costs next year will not benefit from networks past sales of structured this profit.
com REVENUE PROFILE at constant exchange rates 2005 2004 TOTAL i ii 2005 TOTAL LIKE FOR LIKE LIKE FOR LIKE m% m% m % ILF 131 15 130 15 118 14 Maintenance 239 27 234 26 226 26 Transaction Processing 398 45 398 45 408 47 Professional Services 88 10 85 10 79 9 Hardware 32 3 32 4 30 4 888 100 879 100 861 100 i Excluding the incremental benefit of the 2004 and 2005 acquisitions.
ii Excluding the benefit of businesses disposed of in 2004.
Revenue may be analysed under current year.
The strongest growth was the prior year across all businesses.
five generic headings, being ILF, in ILF and professional services which The largest variance has been within maintenance including recurring grew by 9% and 8% respectively, Sesame, related to the funding licence fees RLF, transaction driven by a strong performance in arrangements in respect of AssureWeb.
processing, professional services and Banking.
Maintenance revenues also PROFIT BEFORE TAX, EARNINGS hardware.
ILF is the revenue generated showed good growth at 4% on the PER SHARE EPS AND PROPOSED when Misys sells the right to use a back of another strong performance DIVIDEND software product including significant in Healthcare.
Transaction processing Statutory profit before taxation, upgrades to a customer.
When a revenues were slightly down on last at 28m was 5m above last year, 21 customer buys software they also enter year 2% nearly all of which related reflecting the improvement in the into either a maintenance or RLF to Sesame as discussed earlier.
These contracts provide Hardware revenues are less significant charge on ongoing ordinary activities technical support or trouble-shooting due both to their size and their lower at 13m is broadly in line with last year, assistance helpdesk etc.
In addition, margin, but also grew 9% matching although last year also benefited from a maintenance contract provides the growth in ILF.
an exceptional tax credit in respect of routine upgrades and enhancements.
DEFERRED INCOME prior years of 14m.
The underlying Maintenance also includes fees for Deferred income on the balance sheet, effective tax rate on profit before support contracts for hardware.
which represents amounts invoiced taxation, exceptional items and Related to some products, Misys but not yet recognised as revenue, is goodwill amortisation at 14% was provides transaction processing 117m 2004: 122m.
Within the broadly in line with last year.
services, comprising both EDI services, overall balance, 80m 2004: 77m Basic EPS at 2.9p was 1.5p below last being an electronic link between parties relates to deferred maintenance fees year.
Adjusted basic EPS adjusted to who wish to exchange data, and that are generally invoiced annually exclude exceptional items, goodwill computer aided processing activities, in advance and recognised over the amortisation and the 2004 exceptional such as data centre capabilities or contract period.
The remaining 37m tax credit in respect of prior years internet transactions.
Misys undertakes 2004: 45m relates to amounts noted above at 15.6p 2004:14.8p both forms of transaction processing in invoiced for products or services that was 6% ahead of last year.
In the Sesame and General Insurance, while have not yet been delivered, completed opinion of the Directors, the adjusted Healthcare currently focuses on EDI.
or fully accepted by the customer at basic EPS provides more comparable the balance sheet date.
The reduction On a like-for-like basis, all revenue and representative information on the reflects the different profiles of streams other than transaction continuing and established trading payments related to the contract processing recorded growth for the activities of the Group.
balances outstanding in 2005 against Misys plc Financial review continued The Board is recommending a final the latter due to the share buyback Trading Update in December 2005 and dividend of 4.28p per share.
This would programme towards the end of the the Interim Results in January 2006. raise the full year dividend to 6.84p, year ended 31 May 2004 and during TREASURY OPERATIONS AND an increase of 5% over last year.
Interest CONTROLS cover, before goodwill amortisation, OPERATING CASH FLOW The Group has in place treasury policies was nearly 10 times.
The Group has maintained its strong that are reviewed annually by the Board cash performance with operating cash NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS and more regularly by the Treasury flows of 89m 2004: 98m.
This UK GAAP Committee that comprises certain good performance, which follows even There have been no changes in UK executive Directors and a non-executive stronger cash generation in prior years, GAAP that have affected the Group Director.
The policy covers all significant resulted from the rigorous cash during the year.
areas of treasury activity, including management by the Groups operating foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity IFRS businesses.
As a result the cumulative and credit risk.
The Group has a International Financial Reporting operating cash flow over the last five centralised treasury that provides a Standards IFRS, from 1 January 2005, years of 573m is 18m above the service to the corporate centre and to are being applied across the European cumulative operating profit before the operating businesses.
Its primary Union for the first time and the goodwill amortisation over the same function is to manage the foreign Groups first reported results under period.
Capital expenditure at 10m exchange, interest rate, liquidity and IFRS will be for the six months ended was 1m below last years level.
credit risks arising from the operations 30 November 2005.
The first full year of the business.
It is not a profit centre The net cash inflow from trading reported under IFRS will be for the year and it enters into derivative contracts before corporate activities i. e. before ended 31 May 2006.
It is expected solely for the purpose of hedging the the cost of acquisitions, proceeds from that the change in reporting will impact exposures that arise in the normal disposals, dividend payments and the Groups accounts principally in 22 course of business.
The Groups policy financing including the share buyback the areas of share-based payments, is not to enter into speculative programme was in line with last year capitalisation of development costs, transactions.
the ending of goodwill amortisation, and the deferred tax consequences The Treasury Committee is responsible Dividend payments in the full year, of the various IFRS adjustments.
When for ensuring that the Group operates being last years final dividend and this reporting these results, the Group within the treasury policies agreed by years interim dividend, totalled 34m will include a reconciliation of the the Board.
Regular reports are made to compared with 33m in the prior year.
results for the six months ended the Board from the Treasurer and from PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES 30 November 2004 and the year the Treasury Committee.
During the year the Group has ended 31 May 2005 from UK GAAP The Group finances its operations purchased 26m shares at a cost figures to the new IFRS figures.
through a mixture of retained profits, of 53m.
As part of the Groups communication new equity, loan notes and bank NET DEBT, INTEREST CHARGES relating to this change an initial borrowings.
It is policy to ensure that AND BORROWINGS briefing was held for analysts in April the Group has sufficient resources to Net debt at 31 May 2005 was 219m 2005 which was also webcast live and support the business and, as a result, compared with 183m at 31 May is available on the Misys website at substantial committed facilities are 2004.
This increase in net debt of www.
Prior to the end of maintained.
The Group also has a 36m is mainly as a result of the share November 2005, the Group will publish policy to ensure that it maintains buybacks discussed above.
a reconciliation of its results for the six a comfortable margin between months ended 30 November 2004 and committed facilities and the likely The interest and other finance costs the year ended 31 May 2005 from UK peak borrowings during a year.
charge at 10m was 3m higher than GAAP figures to the new IFRS figures.
This is due to a combination During the year the core debt financing The first occasion on which new results of increased averaged interest rates for the Group was reviewed and the will be reported under IFRS will be the and increased average borrowings, maturities extended.
com year Eurobond, which was issued in The Group invests its cash and cash December 2001 and which enabled the equivalents, and enters into contracts Group to raise net funding of up to for derivative financial instruments, 380m at that time, was redeemed in with institutions of high credit quality, full.
The associated interest derivatives and limits its exposure to any one that were used to convert the sterling counterparty.
The Groups revenue is denominated debt at fixed interest derived from various industries and rates into US dollar denominated could be directly affected by the overall debt at floating interest rates have condition of those industries.
The large also been terminated.
The short term number of customers, their credit facility of $250m, that had a geographical distribution, and the final maturity no later than April 2006, reasonably short collection terms was repaid in full.
The core financing mitigates the credit risk associated with now comes from a new revolving this.
The Group routinely monitors its facility of $850m 466m at year exposure to credit losses and maintains end exchange rates.
This comprises an allowance for anticipated losses.
a tranche of $585m, which matures in March 2010, and a second tranche Howard Evans of $265m which matures no later than Finance Director March 2007.
The previous facilities matured in April and December 2006.
The new facilities allow the Group to borrow funds in any major currency at the related floating rates on interest.
23 The Group has protected the interest charge on up to $350m of the bank debt from increases in interest rates through a series of interest rate caps that have a final maturity in June 2007.
This gives the Group a mixture of floating rate and capped debt.
The Group has subsidiaries in 29 countries and trades in over 120.
Subsidiaries may trade in currencies other than their functional currency of operation usually sterling or US dollars.
It is the Groups policy to eliminate transactional currency exposures through forward currency contracts as soon as the contractual commitments are known.
The Group is subject to currency exposures on the translation of the net assets of, and profits earned by, its overseas subsidiaries, primarily in the US and Europe.
