N Brown Group plc 14 Report and Accounts 2005 DEAN MOORE FINANCIAL DIRECTOR Financial review The group performance was underpinned by the strong recovery of the core Home Shopping division.
Gross margin before operating exceptional items improved by 110bps to 54.4% as a result of lower bad debt charges and fewer discounted offers.
The cost reduction programme has resulted in a 4m reduction in the groups cost base.
The quality of the groups balance sheet has been considerably improved during the year, following the impairment of assets providing a less than acceptable rate of return, and on a net cash inflow before financing of 19.3m which has been achieved by focused working capital management and lower rates of capital expenditure.
The board have recommended that the final dividend of 4.1p per share be maintained at the rate of the prior year giving an unchanged total dividend for the year of 5.84p per share.
This change has no impact on the profit and The group performance was underpinned by the strong The quality of the groups balance sheet has been loss account.
recovery of the core Home Shopping division.
Sales for considerably improved during the year, following the The group is required to prepare its financial statements the group were down 2.2% on the prior year, but 0.9% impairment of assets providing a less than acceptable for the 52 weeks ending February 2006 in accordance up within core home shopping.
rate of return, and on a net cash inflow before financing with International Financial Reporting Standards of 19.3m 2004, outflow 30.5m.
Gross margin before operating exceptional items IFRS.
The group will ensure that its requirements improved by 110bps to 54.4%.
This exceeded This cash inflow reduced borrowings to 126.2m under IFRS will be met and adopted in the next expectations for both the group and core home 2004, 145.6 and has been achieved by focused interim statement.
shopping business as a result of lower bad debt working capital management and lower rates of The review of the impact of the change to IFRS is charges and less discounted offers than experienced capital expenditure of 9.4m 2004, 25.4m.
At the time of writing, the main adjustments in the previous year following the Royal Mail strike.
Gearing fell to 52% from 60% in 2004 and net assets per to the groups financial statements are expected to The cost reduction programme, which commenced share remained stable at 82.4p per share 2004, 82.8p.
arise from changes to accounting for pensions, share during July 2004, has resulted in a 4m reduction in based payments, goodwill, financial instruments and TREASURY the groups cost base.
Savings were made across all the presentation of dividends.
Treasury policy is set to ensure that funding categories of expenditure, and when combined to the arrangements minimise commercial risk, which are We believe that these are the major adjustments to the gross margin benefits maintained the group operating both cost effective and adequate to support ongoing profit and loss account that will arise in the transition profit before operating exceptional items at 54.4m trading and development activity.
As there is still work to do to finalise a range 2004, 54.2m despite the 10.2m fall in turnover.
requirements are supported by a 200m securitisation of minor adjustments and to review the completeness The share of the losses of the joint venture Express facility arranged by HSBC Bank Plc.
of the adjustments it is therefore possible that other Shopping TV Channel amounted to 1.9m.
Net interest adjustments may come to light which will impact the Interest rate swaps and fixed rate finance leases payable increased from 6.1m to 8.1m, as a result of group in the preparation of the first full set of IFRS provided a fixed rate of interest on 10.6m 2004, base rate rises and higher levels of average borrowings financial statements for the year ending February 2006.
Anticipated foreign compared to the previous year.
exchange requirements, for the purchase of stocks SHAREHOLDERS RETURN The performance of our other activities continued denominated in US dollars or similarly linked currencies The share price of 124.5p at the beginning of the year to deteriorate throughout the year.
Following a may be hedged for up to three years ahead to fix the had risen to 135.0p at the year-end, providing a market fundamental review of both the House of Stirling and cost of sterling.
This hedging activity involves the use capitalisation of 398.8m 2004, 367.7m.
Financial Services operations, the board have radically of spot and forward contracts.
The board have recommended that the final dividend restructured both businesses.
To facilitate this, An analysis of derivative instruments utilised to manage of 4.1p per share be maintained at the rate of the prior impairment provisions totalling 25.5m have been treasury risk is given in note 23 on page 50 in year giving an unchanged total dividend for the year of made.
These provisions are highlighted separately accordance with FRS13.
5.84p per share covered 1.9 times pre-operating as exceptional items on the face of the profit and exceptional items 2004, 2.1 times.
Within House of Stirling, ACCOUNTING STANDARDS an impairment charge of 22.5m has been provided AND GOING CONCERN against stock and debtors.
Direct lending ceased Having made appropriate enquiries and having within First Financial in October 2004: new continued to operate an appropriate risk management applications for loans have been brokered on a process during the year, the directors are pleased to commercial basis to third party lenders.
The existing report that adequate resources exist to enable the debtor book for this business will be collected out over group to operate for the foreseeable future.
A going future periods and as a result an impairment provision concern basis adopted in the preparation of the of 3m has been made.
accounts is therefore considered appropriate.
The effect of these exceptional charges has reduced Group accounting policies reflect current professional profit on ordinary activities before taxation to 18.6m standards and related guidelines issued by the UK 2004, 31.0m.
TAXATION The accounts for the 52 weeks to 28 February 2004 The rate of corporation tax on profit before operating have been restated following the implementation of exceptional items for the year is 24.9% 2004, UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
The group continues to enjoy tax levels The effect of this change is that shares held within below the basic rate due to lower rates of tax paid Employee Share Option Schemes are no longer by our overseas subsidiaries and to beneficial tax classified in the balance sheet as a fixed asset planning activities.
investment but as a deduction from shareholders DEAN MOORE
