Financial review: Our financial Our financial position remains satisfactory despite difficult trading conditions.
Our business is characterised by strong cash flow.
Over position remains the next two years we will continue to address the pension deficit and will bear exceptional cash costs associated with the restructuring satisfactory of the business.
However, we expect to remain comfortably positioned against our key measure of financial strength interest cover throughout this period.
At the 2005 year end interest cover before despite difficult goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was satisfactory at 4.6 times.
trading conditions Sales Continuing sales were up 2.0 per cent at 1,416.1 million.
Underlying Ian Ellis sales, excluding the impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments and the 53rd week last year, grew by 2.7 per cent.
Total underlying growth Head of Finance with our top five retailers was around the same level with strong progress being made with both Tesco and Asda.
Ambient and Chilled both showed continuing sales growth of 7.5 per cent and 2.0 per cent respectively.
Frozen showed a decline in continuing sales of 2.2 per cent, mainly because of changes in contracts resulting from Morrisons acquisition of Safeway and lower promotional volumes in our Dalepak business.
Selling price increases of approximately 1.0 per cent are included in the above figures.
These were around 0.2 per cent below the level of input cost inflation experienced within the year.
Operating profit Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was down 4.3 per cent at 102.4 million, with continuing businesses showing a decline of 2.9 per cent.
Good performances were achieved in both Frozen and Ambient, but these were offset by a disappointing result from Chilled.
Continuing Ambient operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increased by 5.2 million to 31.5 million, a rise of 19.8 per cent.
This was achieved through cost savings, improved efficiencies and increased sales.
Continuing Frozen operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was held at 36.1 million, with lower volumes being offset by improved efficiencies across the division.
Continuing Chilled operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was down 19.2 per cent at 35.0 million.
Relatively weak sales to our largest customer throughout the year and a poor trading period in the run up to Christmas affected efficiencies and profitability.
Overall efficiency levels were below our targets and cost inflation was not fully recovered.
Exceptional items The group reorganisation and the proposed factory closures resulted in a 34.7 million post-tax operating exceptional charge, including 1.1 million impairment of goodwill.
The resulting cash outflow was 22.9 million.
These exceptional costs will continue into next year as we finalise the site closures and complete the group reorganisation.
The losses on the sale of Eden Vale Minsterley, Emile Tissot and Cavaghan & Gray Seafood, which have been treated as discontinued operations, were 25.9 million, 6.1 million and 2.8 million respectively.
The property at Croydon and the office in Hull were sold for net proceeds of 13.6 million, resulting in a profit of 9.3 million.
The total post-tax loss from the business and property sales was 22.1 million, and included 29.3 million relating to goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Analysed in the turnover and segmental analysis 08 Financial review Northern Foods plc Pre-tax profit Divestments and rationalisation Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items We realised proceeds of 34.6 million through the sale of the Emile was 80.2 million, 6.7 per cent lower than last year.
After the Tissot frozen foodservice business to Dawn Fresh Foods Limited on exceptional group reorganisation costs, the losses on the sale of 1 May 2004: the disposal of the Eden Vale Minsterley fresh chilled dairy Eden Vale Minsterley, Emile Tissot and Cavaghan & Gray Seafood, the products business to Uniq Prepared Foods Limited on 22 May 2004: profit on the disposal of Croydon and the office in Hull, and goodwill and the disposal of the Cavaghan & Gray Seafood chilled and frozen amortisation of 4.0 million, there was a pre-tax profit of 4.3 million fish business to IFP Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Icelandic compared to 75.4 million last year.
Taxation Previously announced plans to close the Evesham Foods factory The tax charge on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional and the London Road, Carlisle facility of Cavaghan & Gray during items for the year was 21 per cent 2004: 18 per cent.
Low Irish tax 2005 are on plan from both a cost and benefits point of view.
The rates, settlement of prior year items and tax efficient funding were transfer of their production to other group factories will eliminate the main reasons for the difference between this rate and the basic unnecessary duplication and enhance plant utilisation and productivity.
rate of UK corporation tax.
Manufacturing ceased at the London Road site on 31 March 2005 and at the Evesham site on 14 April 2005.
Earnings per share Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, earnings Operating exceptional items per share fell 6.0 per cent to 12.95 pence.
Basic earnings per share The cash outflow from the group reorganisation and the factory fell to 0.53 pence 2004: 12.78 pence, reflecting the inclusion of the closures was 22.9 million.
exceptional items from the group reorganisation, the factory closures and the losses on the business disposals.
Balance sheet The net result of trading, capital expenditure, acquisitions and Dividend divestments led to a decrease in trading capital employed to The total dividend for the year is 9.05 pence per share.
Net debt at the year cover before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items is 1.4 times, end was 333.3 million 2004: 332.4 million.
EBITDA interest with the cash dividend during the year being 43.8 million.
cover before exceptional items was 7.5 times 2004: 8.1 times.
Change in net debt Adding back goodwill previously written off, our average invested Net debt was stable at 333.3 million.
The key ratio to consider capital was 901.2 million 2004: 929.1 million.
The post-tax return in evaluating our debt capacity is interest cover before goodwill on average invested capital ROIC before goodwill amortisation amortisation and exceptional items, and this remained satisfactory at and exceptional items was 8.8 per cent 2004: 9.2 per cent.
EBITDA interest cover before exceptional weighted average cost of capital at 6.6 per cent, we still achieved items was 7.5 times 2004: 8.1 times.
Tight control of capital a healthy margin over the cost of funds.
expenditure was offset by higher working capital, mainly caused by the movement in the pension prepayment of 33.9 million.
Pensions This included the special pension contribution of 20.0 million We believe that a defined benefit pension scheme is an important announced in March 2005.
The movement in net debt is analysed below: benefit to our employees and is part of the remuneration package offered to support the recruitment, motivation and retention of high calibre individuals.
Having decided to maintain our final salary scheme in 2005 2004 2002, we increased contributions for all employees from 5 to 7 per cent m m and removed a number of company-funded early retirement provisions Free cash flow 59.8 66.5 for future service.
In March 2005 we announced the closure of the Dividends 43.8 44.9 scheme to new entrants and introduced Pension Builder, a new defined Special pension contribution 20.0 benefit scheme based on a career average principle.
Cash outflow on exceptional items 22.9 4.9 Net business disposals 33.5 18.2 The latest full valuation of the final salary scheme was carried out Exceptional asset sales 13.6 as at 31 March 2002 using a market-based approach.
The market Share buybacks 24.2 37.1 value of the schemes assets was 449.9 million which represented Other cash flows 3.1 6.6 95 per cent of the value of accrued benefits allowing for assumed Change in net debt 0.9 8.8 future increases in earnings.
The scheme is in the process of being valued as at 31 March 2005.
The change in net debt reflects the following items: The fund is relatively immature with almost twice the level of contributions going in as pensions paid out, which leaves us able to Capital expenditure take a long term view of investment returns.
We continue to charge We have held capital expenditure to a level below depreciation pension costs against profits based on SSAP 24 and the latest full at 62.6 million.
Going forward, we will ensure tight control of valuation of the scheme.
The variation credit due to the amortisation this spend and keep it in line with depreciation.
Within this spend, of past surpluses reduces the pension charge by 0.7 million.
we have undertaken a number of strategic projects including the completion of our installation of SAP and the completion of our new pizza facility on the site of the former Savoury Foods factory in Nottingham.
Work is ongoing to open our new frozen pizza site in Ireland, and a number of efficiency investments have been undertaken across the group.
Northern Foods plc Financial review 09 The net pension deficit under FRS 17 is estimated to be 116.6 million, Currency down from 155.7 million last year.
This reduction is as a result of the The group operates primarily in the UK.
Forward foreign exchange growth in assets, offset to some extent by the increase in liabilities contracts and currency options may be used to hedge foreign resulting from a lower discount rate.
It also reflects the 20.0 million transactional cash flows.
Accordingly, any gains and losses on these special contribution paid in March 2005 and the removal of the contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account when the remaining discretionary benefits in the scheme.
Since the year end underlying transaction is settled.
To the extent that a forward foreign a further 20.0 million has been paid to the scheme to reduce the exchange contract is not a hedge, any resulting gain or loss is taken deficit further.
to the profit and loss account.
The group does not hedge against translation and all significant derivatives require board approval.
Treasury management The group has a centralised treasury function which operates within Implementing International Financial Reporting Standards a policy framework approved and regularly reviewed by the board.
We are on schedule to implement International Financial Reporting The department is not run as a profit centre and is subject to internal Standards IFRS.
On 1 June 2005 we released a briefing announcement audit review.
Its activities are routinely reported to the board.
The on our corporate website indicating the major effects for Northern purpose of the centralised treasury function is to manage the main Foods.
There is no cash impact and the indicative effects on profit treasury risks, including liquidity, interest rates and foreign currency.
before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for the year While each business unit in the group is responsible for its own cash ended 2005 are: management, all resulting cash flows and balances are managed 2005 by the centralised treasury function to minimise borrowings and m interest costs.
Pensions 15 Convertible subordinated bonds 2 The main treasury policies are summarised below: Forward currency contracts 1 Liquidity We will report under IFRS for the first time in the six months to The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding September 2005 and will release a restatement of our March 2005 by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate facilities, figures under IFRS in early September 2005.
Under IAS 19, we have supplemented by uncommitted facilities.
The policy is to ensure indicated a post-tax pension deficit of 118 million which will appear that forecast net borrowings plus reasonable operating headroom on the balance sheet of Northern Foods plc, together with the reversal are covered by committed facilities, which mature at least 12 months of the post-tax SSAP 24 prepayment of 67 million.
Ian Ellis Bank facilities Head of Finance The committed core of our funding arrangements is formed by long term facilities currently comprising a 450.0 million five-year 1 June 2005 revolving credit facility 2006 and a 91.3 million fixed rate bond 2008.
Short term funding requirements are met through a mix of committed overdraft facilities of 23.0 million and other uncommitted short term facilities of 67.0 million.
Interest rates The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
The objective is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range of 20 to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the medium term, although the group may operate outside that range during the year.
Board approval is required for use of interest rate derivatives and no interest rate derivatives are currently in place.
10 Financial review Northern Foods plc
