CORPORATE GOVERNANCE UK listed companies are required by the Financial Services Authority non-executive Director following his retirement.
During the year, The provisions of the New Code applicable to listed companies are divided meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were by invitation.
the designated UK Listing Authority to include a statement in their annual the Chairmen, respectively Mr Waring until 5 January 2005 and into four parts, as set out below: The external auditors attended three Audit Committee meetings.
accounts on compliance with the Principles of Good Corporate Governance Mr Ballinger from that date, were satisfied that at all times the The internal audit manager attended two Audit Committee meetings.
1 Directors and Code of Best Practice set out in the Combined Code published in balance of skills and experience between the executive and The non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, but without executive The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, Directors present, met informally on four occasions during the year.
a revised form in July 2003 the New Code.
This New Code, which non-executive Directors was appropriate for the requirements of the currently comprising four executive and five non-executive Directors, In addition, the non-executive Directors met informally on two occasions incorporates recommendations made in the Higgs Report on the role and business and Mr Ballinger remains of that view.
details of whom are set out on page 10.
All the non-executive Directors during the year without the Chairman being present.
effectiveness of non-executive Directors and in the Financial Reporting Performance evaluation: during the year, an evaluation process of are considered to be independent both in the sense outlined in the New Councils new guidance for audit committees, applies to the Company the performance of the Board and of its committees was carried out, Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to assure the Code and in terms of the criteria laid down by the National Association of for the first time for the financial year ended 30 April 2005. led by the Chairman, Mr Ballinger.
The process consisted of a formal Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to properly fulfil Pension Funds for judging the independence of non-executive Directors.
and detailed questionnaire completed by each Director, followed by their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss During the year the Corporate Governance Committee, established by the Mr Williams, as Deputy Chairman, is considered to be the senior such one-to-one meetings with the Chairman.
As a result of this process, matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
Board in 2003, consisting of the Deputy Chairman, the Finance Director and independent Director.
The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Mr Ballinger was satisfied that all the non-executive Directors the Company Secretary, continued to review the Companys compliance Officer are separate.
The division of their responsibilities has been set The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each Annual General continued to demonstrate a commitment to their role and in with best practice and made further recommendations towards achieving out in writing, approved by the Board and is available on the Companys Meeting of the Company all Directors who held office at the time of the two particular to devote adequate time to properly carry out their duties compliance with the New Code.
The Board accepted the Committees website.
preceding Annual General Meetings and did not retire by rotation shall be as a member of the Board and Board committees.
The process recommendations and considers that the Company complied with the subject to re-election.
In addition, any Director appointed by the Board The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has responsibility initiated during the year is an evolutionary one in that it will continue New Code throughout the year, except for the following: during the year is obliged to seek re-election at the next following Annual for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual Business Plan, financial to be developed during the current year to include in particular an General Meeting.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee, Board composition: the New Code requires that at least half the reporting to and relationships with shareholders, dividend policy, internal assessment of the performance of individual Directors.
With the which is chaired by Mr Ballinger.
All the non-executive Directors and the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent financial and other controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance policy, change to the position of Chairman during the year, it was not felt Chief Executive are members.
Its main function is to lead the process for non-executive Directors.
With four executive Directors, compliance major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, Board structure, appropriate to carry out a review of the performance of either of Board appointments by selecting and proposing to the Board suitable would require a total of five non-executive Directors, including the remuneration policy, corporate governance and compliance.
them: the non-executive Directors will carry out such a review during candidates of appropriate calibre.
The Committee would normally expect Chairman.
The Company did not comply with this requirement the current year.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed to enable to use the services of professional search consultants to help in the search except for the period between Mr Ballingers appointment on them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed management accounts for candidates.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are 10 November 2004 and Mr Warings retirement on 5 January 2005 are prepared and copies sent to all Board members every month and, in available on the Companys website.
and the period following Mr Browns appointment on 13 April 2005. advance of each Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all items During the year, the Committee lead the process which resulted in the As is referred to elsewhere in these Report and Accounts, Mr Williams to be discussed is circulated.
appointment of Mr Brown to the Board in April 2005 and, previously, under will be retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year the Chairmanship of Mr Williams, the appointment of Mr Ballinger to the 28 September 2005.
There is no present intention to appoint a further is detailed below.
In both cases the services of external search All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual General consultants were used.
Attendance by executive Directors at BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION A B AB AB AB M Ballinger 66 4 1 11 F M Waring 9 8 4 4 2 1 S J Smith 12 12 6 3 3 3 J Astrand 12 12 7 7 5 5 3 3 T Brown 1 1 1 P J Moorhouse 12 12 6 2 G T Murray 12 11 6 A T Noble 12 12 6 1 P Rogerson 12 12 7 7 5 5 3 3 R Williams 12 12 7 7 5 5 3 3 A Maximum number of meetings the Director was entitled to attend.
B Number of meetings attended 18 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Boards policy on non-audit work is: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION 2 Directors remuneration 4 Relations with Shareholders Tax advisory and other audit-related work including in particular The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration of Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with Corporation Tax.
This is work that, in their capacity as auditors, they the Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly accounts with a each Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 17. institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such are best placed to carry out and will generally be asked to do so.
comparison against their business plan and against the previous year, information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted Nevertheless, where appropriate, they will be asked for a fee quote.
with regular review by management of variances from targeted performance 3 Accountability and audit within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the Non-audit related and general consultancy work.
This type of work will levels.
A business plan is prepared by management and approved by the An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is included in the time of announcing the Companys interim and full year results, they are either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or to the consultants Board annually.
Each operating unit prepares a three year business plan Chairmans Statement on page 2 and in the Operational and Financial invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
who are felt to be best able to provide the expertise and working with performance reported against key performance indicators on a Review on pages 4 to 9.
The Companys major institutional shareholders have been advised by relationship required.
In certain instances, such as the appointment of monthly basis together with comparisons to plan and prior year.
These are the Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions of the New Code, INTERNAL CONTROL consultants to provide external advice and support to the internal audit reviewed regularly by management.
Forecasts are updated regularly the Senior Independent Director and other non-executives may attend Provision C2.1 of the New Code requires the Directors to conduct an annual department, the auditors will not be invited to compete for the work.
these briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Fees paid and payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of the year All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for discussion CONTROL PROCEDURES Turnbull Report, published by the ICAEW in September 1999, provides under review are as follows: at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than the recommended The Board and the Groups management have adopted a schedule of relevant guidance for directors on compliance with the internal control minimum 20 working days notice is given.
The Company has adopted the matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring provisions of the New Code.
practice of issuing a brief statement at the Annual General Meeting, which that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, 30 April The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls is simultaneously released to the London Stock Exchange, on current financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Measures taken include 2005 2004 which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records trading conditions.
In addition, the Company issues brief pre-close clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and 000 000 are maintained and that the financial information used within the business trading statements two months prior to the announcement of both its authorisation, physical controls, segregation of duties and routine and Statutory audit work and interim review 228 178 and for publication is reliable.
Although no system of internal controls can interim and full year results.
In compliance with the requirement in the ad hoc checks.
Tax compliance 60 82 provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the New Code, the Company has adopted the practice at general meetings MONITORING Other 106 73 Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable of the Company of advising shareholders of the numbers of proxy votes The Board has delegated to executive management implementation of Total 394 333 assurance that, should any problems occur, these are identified on a timely lodged on each resolution, after the resolution has been dealt with on a the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit Committee, This includes audit fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP for basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key features of the Groups system of show of hands.
receives reports on the system of control from the external auditors and the statutory audit of Fualsa which has a year end different to internal controls, which was in place throughout the period covered by the from management.
An independent internal audit function reports financial statements, are described below: that of the Group.
In prior years this audit was performed by bi-annually to the Audit Committee primarily on the key areas of risk an audit firm other than Deloitte & Touche LLP.
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT within the business.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure within which effectiveness of the system of internal controls covering financial, individual responsibilities of line and financial management for the operational and compliance matters and risk management, for the period maintenance of strong internal controls and the production of accurate covered by these financial statements in accordance with the guidance and timely financial management information are identified and can be contained in the Turnbull Report.
Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with AUDIT the procedures set out in written manuals.
To demonstrate the Boards Membership of the Audit Committee is shown on page 10.
The Committee commitment to maintaining the highest business and ethical standards has written terms of reference setting out its duties which are available on and to promote a culture of honesty and integrity amongst all staff, the the Companys website.
These include matters relating to the appointment Board has established a confidential telephone service, operated by an and fees of the external auditors and review of the annual and interim independent external organisation, which may be used by all staff to report statements, of the Groups internal controls and of the nature, scope and any issues of concern relating to dishonesty or malpractice within the results of the internal audit programme.
The Committee has access to Group.
All issues reported are investigated by senior management.
the resources and facilities it requires to enable it to carry out its duties.
IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS These include external professional advice and direct access to the The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined Company Secretary and other relevant staff.
Both the external auditors and responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the Group and the internal audit manager have direct access to members of the Committee for developing systems to mitigate and manage those risks.
The control of and can meet with the Committee without the Companys management key risks is reviewed by the Board and the Groups management at their being present.
In addition to the meetings referred to in the table above, monthly meetings.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an the members of the Committee, together with the Chairman of the Board, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant had informal meetings with the external auditors with no other Directors risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review present.
The Committee also monitors the independence and objectivity and up to the date of approval of these accounts and accords with the of the external auditors in carrying out their statutory audit work on behalf Turnbull guidance.
of shareholders and providing other fee-paying services to the Company.
20 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 21 REPORT OF THE AUDITORS HEALTH & SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NORTHGATE PLC The Board recognises that the monitoring and control of health and We have audited the financial statements of Northgate plc for the year We also review whether the company has complied with the requirements Property safety and environmental issues forms a key part of its risk management ended 30 April 2005 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss set out in Listing Rules 9.8.
8R 2 with regards to the amount of each element As at 30 April 2005, the vehicle rental business in the UK and Ireland programme.
account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, in the remuneration package and information on share options, 9.8.
8R 3, operated out of 76 properties, of which 36 were primary sites and 40 the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, the 4 and 5 with regards to details of long term incentive schemes for The Board has designated the Chief Executive as the person ultimately were branches.
All but four of these sites all of which are branches are accounting policies and the related Notes 1 to 26 together with the directors, 9.8.
8R 11 with regards to money purchase schemes, and responsible to the Board for all health, safety and environmental matters located on industrial estates, so our activities have minimal impact on the reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt and the notes to the 9.8.
8R 12 with regards to defined benefit schemes, and we give a throughout the Group.
Responsibility for implementing the Groups policy local community of the areas in which we operate.
A typical primary site consolidated cash flow statement.
These financial statements have been statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
is devolved to regional and depot management.
will have an area of 1.2 acres, will comprise approximately 9,000 sq.
ft. prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also of workshops and office facilities, with the remainder hard-standing and We read the Report of the Directors and the other information contained in The Group has adopted the principles set out in the management model audited the information in the part of the Remuneration Report that is will employ approximately 35 people.
A typical branch location will have the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section HSG 65 Successful Health and Safety Management.
This enables the described as having been audited.
an area of 0.3 acres, have a small office often of the portacabin type, including the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and consider the Group to apply consistent health and safety standards and disciplines at This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in a valet washbay and in some cases a workshop facility, again, often a implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent all locations.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work modular building.
They employ an average of 9 people.
Three of the primary misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Comprehensive health and safety procedures and vehicle user manuals has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members sites, Darlington, Banbury and Snodland are shared with Northgate Vehicle provide guidance and advice on implementing the Groups health and Basis of audit opinion those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Sales.
In addition, the head office building in Darlington houses all central safety policy.
Relevant training is provided to all employees through a no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing administrative and support services and the Northgate Vehicle Solutions rolling programme designed to promote a positive health and safety assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Part of the responsibilities of the Group health and safety officer is to A head office steering group reviews health and safety and environmental have formed.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration visit all locations annually to carry out a health and safety audit.
Where performance and policy issues on a quarterly basis.
Technical advice and Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of appropriate, outside professional advice and services are also used: support is provided by a qualified health and safety officer.
the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Respective responsibilities of preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting in compliance with the Electricity at Work Regulations, a rolling Health and safety and environmental issues impact on the Groups Directors and auditors policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the programme of electrical inspections and surveys, covering all Group operations in two main areas: As described in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
locations, is carried out by qualified electrical contractors: Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in Vehicle fleet We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information a programme of surveys has been put in place to meet the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The total fleet in the UK and Ireland at 30 April 2005 was 52,600, with an and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us requirements of the new Asbestos Regulations, which came into They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information average age of between 15 and 16 months, of which 6,400 were cars and the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial force in 2004, using licensed contractors: contained in the annual report including the Remuneration Report.
Cars are sold after an average life of 20 statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the all hazardous waste principally engine oils, batteries, tyres and months and commercial vehicles of 30 months.
Our fleet is therefore having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with other vehicle consumables is collected and disposed of by licensed comprised entirely of modern vehicles.
Over 99% of the fleet is diesel caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing contractors: powered.
Of the 3,400 cars purchased in calendar year 2004, just over 30% we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information standards.
We expect this to rise to 75% in calendar year 2005 prior to acquiring new sites, environmental risk assessments, in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give and to 100% in 2006.
Commercial vehicle manufacturers are still debating to ISO 9000 standard, are carried out by external consultants: described as having been audited.
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the launch of Euro IV products but current expectations are that such all primary sites and some branch locations have above-ground fuel of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been products should become available in the UK in the last quarter of 2006.
A programme to upgrade those tanks which do not currently properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion: To encourage a safe driving culture amongst our own staff, we have comply with the guidelines relating to double-bunding laid down by the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs arranged with the Institute of Advanced Motorists a rolling programme Environment Agency in PPG2 will be completed by September 2005. not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept of the Company and the Group as at 30 April 2005 and of the profit of the of driver assessment and training for all employees who have a company During the year under review, no major incidents classed as those proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Group for the year then ended: and vehicle or who are otherwise required to drive as part of their duties.
resulting in death, serious injury or significant pollution occurred at any explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the financial statements and that part of the Remuneration Report of our locations.
No health and safety enforcement notices were served regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company The Group was the first UK vehicle rental company to participate in the described as having been audited have been properly prepared in on any company in the Group and there were no convictions for health and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Institute of Road Transport Engineers Certification scheme for motor accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and safety offences during the year.
technicians, run in conjunction with the Society of Operation Engineers.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the The Groups commitment to health and safety has been recognised during Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC To date over 30% of our technicians have successfully completed the Deloitte & Touche LLP the year, with a Merit award from the Royal Society for the Prevention Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the course.
The Group has received an award from Brake, the road safety Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of Accidents for demonstrating the effective implementation of safety Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not organisation, for its initiative in adopting the scheme.
Leeds arrangements within the organisation.
required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control 4 July 2005 cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
22 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 23 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25
