39 Appendix to the operating and financial review GROUP FINANCIAL KPIs Gearing to RCV Definition and calculation The ratio of Group net debt to NWLs Regulatory Capital Value RCV.
The RCV represents the total capital value of the appointed water and sewerage business on which Ofwat allows a rate of return at price reviews based on its view of the cost of capital.
Purpose The RCV generates most of the revenue stream of the Group and the regulatory gearing is an important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data NWLs RCV is calculated by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, based on its last price determination.
Group net debt is disclosed in the audited financial statements.
Cash interest cover Definition and calculation Net cash inflow from operating activities less tax divided by net interest paid excluding non recurring items, such as hedging gains losses and issue costs on new borrowings.
Purpose Measures the ability of the Group to service its debt.
Source of underlying data Audited financial statements.
Cash flow to net debt Definition and calculation Net cash inflow from operating activities less tax paid divided by net debt.
Purpose Indicates the Groups ability to reduce debt in the absence of need for additional investment, without resorting to asset disposal.
NWL FINANCIAL KPIs Regulatory gearing Definition and calculation The ratio of NWL net debt to NWLs RCV.
David Forster at NWLs Fontburn reservoir in Northumberland.
NWLs net debt can be found in the audited regulatory accounts and Ofwat annual reports on financial performance.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 40 Appendix to the operating and financial review continued NWL NON-FINANCIAL KPIs Customer service standards Definition and calculation Customer service standards are established by Ofwat, the economic regulator, and calculated using source data in the company.
Purpose To monitor performance of NWL against these predetermined standards and other companies.
Source of underlying data Information collected by the company and submitted to Ofwat annually in June.
Customer satisfaction Definition and calculation NWIs sewage treatment works at Inverclyde, Ayrshire.
Domestic customers satisfaction with overall service and overall value for money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the surveys carried out during the year.
Purpose To enable the tracking of perception of reputation, service and value for money over time.
Source of underlying data Surveys of 500 customers chosen at random but representative of the customer base as a whole in each of the northern and southern areas, carried out in June and December total of 2000 customers.
Drinking water quality Definition and calculation Compliance with drinking water regulations as monitored by the DWI.
Purpose To monitor drinking water quality.
Source of underlying data Samples recorded by NWL and audited by DWI.
Environmental performance Definition and calculation Percentage of population equivalent served by non-compliant works failing LUT consents.
Purpose To monitor the performance of NWLs sewage treatment works and their impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data Information recorded by NWL and the EA and reported on by the latter.
