13 Operating and financial review INTRODUCTION The new operating and financial review standard comes into force next year and the Board has endeavoured to follow the new standard in this years annual report.
The review which follows, reflects our interpretation of the content and style of the requirements of the new standard.
The review contains significantly more information for stakeholders and we would welcome their feedback prior to the introduction of the regulations next year.
NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES The Groups businesses The composition of the Group is set out at the start of the annual report, with the largest element by far being NWL, a regulated water and sewerage company.
Further details on our other operations can be found on pages 21 to 23.
NWL drives the performance of the Group both in terms of its size and its turnover and it continues to be the main focus for the Group.
As a consequence, the financial performance of the Group is dominated by the water industry regulatory price review which takes place every five years.
The water industry is subject to a range of UK and EU legislation.
Standards, particularly those that relate to the environment, are being tightened on a regular basis and require increasing levels of investment.
The standards of service provided by NWL are monitored by three main regulators Ofwat for customer levels of service, the EA for environmental protection and the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI for drinking water quality.
NWL works closely with these and the other organisations that have an interest in the services it provides.
NWL's Mark Morris, Kevin Ashworth and Billy Hind carrying out an environmental assessment at Horsley water treatment works, However, Ofwats main role is as the water industrys economic regulator, which it as part of our ISO 14001 certification.
principally exercises through the price-setting process.
Ofwat sets price limits for NWL every five years.
Water companies are largely natural monopolies and, recognising this, the Government, following Ofwats advice and wide consultation, is cautiously opening up to competition the market for provision of water to large industrial and commercial customers.
In accordance with the Water Act 2003, preparations were made during the year for the introduction of competitive licences for the retail supply of water and common carriage where a licensee is entitled to use a water undertakers network to supply customers see page 17 for further details.
NWL operates in two different regions: Northumbrian Water in the north east of England and Essex and Suffolk in the south east.
Its northern operating area is in a region of modest economic growth, with a declining industrial customer base and industrial demand for water, but with a growing demand from domestic customers.
It is well placed to meet anticipated demand due to well developed resources, such as Kielder Water, and the above average rainfall experienced in the region.
By comparison, NWLs southern operating area is in a region that has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, rapid economic and population growth, although it has also seen a reduction in demand from heavy industry.
This emphasises the importance of the companys well developed plans for resource development to meet additional water demands in a region where water resources are already constrained.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 14 Operating and financial review continued Despite differing socio-economic characteristics, and increases in levels of water and sewerage charges during the year, NWLs proactive cash collection approach has allowed it to maintain its collection rates.
This is against a background of increasing bad debt across the industry in recent years, following the removal by the Government in 1999 of powers of disconnection for non-payment.
In the north, NWL has been successful in extending its expertise into the provision of industrial effluent treatment services through its massive treatment works at Bran Sands on Teesside.
Entec, Fastflow and AES all provide services to NWL, under conditions that are subject to transfer pricing regulations.
They, and the other subsidiaries, continue to be successful in winning contracts in competitive markets.
Business strategy The Group has a well developed, focused strategy with an integrated framework NWLs Stuart Richardson and Ian Macpherson study flow data for delivery.
Our strategy has grown from the Groups core competencies of water at Bran Sands Six Sigma office.
It reflects current market conditions with clear measurable objectives for the future.
Our mission is clear to be a national leader: our strategy reflects this and provides a clear direction for all of our activities.
Each individual subsidiary company develops its own strategy based on its core competencies.
All are focused on organic growth and on delivering effectively and Mission efficiently within their target markets.
To be a national leader in Business planning is an important process within the Group and is a key ingredient the provision of sustainable in delivering the long term objectives of the business.
It is central to the delivery of the corporate objectives and also to establishing the targets and key actions against water, waste water and which business units report and are measured.
environmental solutions and, through its competitive Objectives position, to deliver Maintaining excellent reputation and key relationships by: creating shareholder value: stakeholder value and delivering best service levels to customers: delivering regulatory outputs: and grow its business.
engaging with all key stakeholder groups.
Ensuring a stable financial profile by: maximising revenue: delivering operational efficiency: and securing low cost long term funds.
Developing a culture of continuous improvement by: maintaining a rigorous risk management process: promoting a flexible and proactive attitude: embracing a sustainable and responsible approach: ensuring a focus on safety: and encouraging employees to fulfil their potential.
15 Within NWL the framework for delivery is built on a number of key themes: Building our future an approach which informs employees of the organisational strategy and reinforces the culture and values of the business.
Roadmap a tool which illustrates the five year vision and milestones for implementation in key objective areas.
Functional delivery plans developed at departmental level, plans focus on specific objectives, targets and delivery of each individual business unit.
Balanced scorecard an approach to measure success based on performance indicators.
CURRENT DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE Northumbrian Water Group plc Business development and performance A large number of performance indicators are in use across the Group, covering both financial and non-financial performance.
In the case of NWL, many of these are combined in a balanced scorecard used to calculate employees bonuses.
A much smaller number of these are Key Performance Indicators, or KPIs.
At NWG level the KPIs are all financial, but to illustrate the approach to the non-financial KPIs, those for NWL are described in an appendix see page 40.
A summary of the Groups progress in achieving its objectives, as measured against the KPIs is set out below.
a Financial performance against KPIs The financial performance of the Group and NWL is monitored against the same KPIs.
Target Performance 2 Current year Previous year 1 KPI NWG NWL NWG NWL NWG NWL 3 Gearing to RCV 80% 70% 76% 68% 81% 62% Cash interest cover 2.5x 3.0x 2.7x 3.4x 2.7x 3.3x Cash flow to net debt 13% 13% 15% 17% 14% 17% Bob Coulthard from Entec checks site plans.
Each KPI is defined in the appendix see page 39.
Figures for the previous year are pro forma as at 31 March 2004.
Less than 65% for the appointed business.
Group gearing to Regulated Capital Value RCV reduced from 81% to 76% over the year as a consequence of the improved cash flows arising from NWLs successful IDoK see page 18 and, more importantly, helped to maintain cash interest cover at 2.7 times.
More details are given in the financial review section on page 35.
At NWL, gearing increased to 68% due to the Kielder securitisation, proceeds of which were used to repay acquisition debt owed by both NSL and NWL.
For the licensed business within NWL, gearing was unchanged at 59%.
NWL continued to perform well against operating costs and capital investment efficiency targets.
Over the five year period from 2000 01 to 2004 05, NWL beat its efficiency targets with operating costs at an average of 0.8% p. a. below the Ofwat target.
This equates to cumulative operating savings of 45 million over the five years.
Capital investment for the same period amounted to 36 million outperformance against the Ofwat target.
b Other measures and evidence The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans and annual budgets, which are reviewed and submitted to the Board for approval.
Targets are set to Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 16 Operating and financial review continued measure performance and regular financial forecasts are made.
Business plans and budgets include an assessment of the key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
On a monthly basis, management compares the actual operational and financial performance of each business with plan and budget and this is reported to the Board.
c NWL performance against non-financial KPIs Performance Current Previous Target year year Customer service standards See narrative below Customer satisfaction overall service 88% 91% value for money 74% 79% Drinking water quality 99.9% 99.9% Environmental performance 100% 99.7% NWL maintained its high level of service, achieving greater than 99.9% compliance with drinking water regulations, 100% compliance with Look Up Table LUT effluent consents, and a star rating on most Director General DG measures.
The only shortcoming related to DG5, which measures performance on sewer flooding.
Due to intense summer storms, NWLs performance slipped on this measure.
Whether such storms are rare events, unlikely to recur in the near future, or reflect changed weather patterns associated with climate change, remains to be seen.
Customer satisfaction surveys showed sustained customer satisfaction but reduced perceived value for money.
The probable explanation for this is the 10% real increase in prices resulting from the IDoK and the publicity given to prospective price increases over the next five years as a result of Ofwats 2004 price review.
Financial performance An overview of the Group financial performance is provided in the financial review section on pages 35 to 38 Trends As is the case in most industrial and commercial sectors, stakeholders expect continuous improvement.
Regulatory reviews demand further efficiency savings and even better customer service.
New legislation increases the required operating standards, needing further capital investment, and competition in the Groups non-regulated markets becomes stiffer.
So far the Group has demonstrated an excellent record of meeting, and in many cases exceeding, its targets and in growing its non-core business.
We have every confidence that we can continue to deliver the improvements expected of us.
Changes in the external environment Water industry periodic review of price limits Following the announcement of Ofwats draft determination on 5 August, that NWL would be allowed to raise its price limits by 7.8% above the rate of inflation over the years 2005-10, NWLs executive directors had further discussions with the regulator.
They raised a number of company-specific issues: movement on these, the final ministerial guidance and representation by WaterVoice, the industrys customer watchdog, and others, contributed to an increase in the final determination for NWL published by Ofwat on 2 December 2004.
A final settlement tank at NWLs Howdon sewage treatment works.
17 This allows NWL to raise its price limits by 15% above the rate of inflation over the next five years.
The determination means that in, 2004 05 prices, the average bill for water and sewerage services in NWLs northern area Northumbrian Water will rise by 28 over the five year period, to 260 in 2010: the average bill for wateronly services in NWLs southern area Essex & Suffolk Water will rise by 21, to 153 in 2010.
In the north, despite these increases, NWL will have the lowest average household bill for water and sewerage in the industry in 2009 10.
The final determination increased NWLs allowance for capital maintenance and recognised the need to increase investment to prevent discoloured water and further alleviate flooding from sewers in its northern area issues that were identified as a priority by NWLs customers and the local WaterVoice committee.
The full amount requested for these investments by NWL in its business plan was not granted, but the amount allowed in prices will allow significant progress to be made towards reducing the impact of discoloured water and sewer flooding.
Additional investment was also allowed to meet water demand from major housing developments in NWLs southern area.
In the final determination, Ofwat made a number of significant changes to its draft proposal.
In particular, appropriate allowances were made for increases to base operating expenditure for energy costs and pension contributions, and the impact of new Inland Revenue tax rules on the business was taken into account.
NWG announced, on 15 December 2004, that the NWL board had accepted the Fastflows Jason Dixon and Craig Parker carrying out mains refurbishment.
New water competition measures Preparations within NWL were made during the year for the introduction of new water competition measures contained in the Water Act 2003.
The Act introduces two types of licences for new water suppliers retail licences, for the retail supply of water, and combined licences, involving both retail supply and the common carriage of water.
To be eligible to change supplier, customers must use more than 50 megalitres of water per year at a single premises, and the water must be for non-household use.
New water suppliers can apply to Ofwat for licences from the summer of 2005 and licences will be granted from the autumn of 2005.
Ofwat has issued draft guidance on the implementation of the new licence arrangements and established advisory groups during 2004 to consider access terms, eligibility and licensing.
NWLs preparations include the updating of our access code, deriving access prices both for retail and common carriage, and the introduction of a customer transfer protocol.
NWL has been influential in the guidance on access pricing and was one of two companies chosen by Ofwat to carry out dry runs of the application and pricing process with a prospective licensee.
The competition process is intended to provide lower prices for customers, while being cost neutral for the current supplier.
In calculating access prices, avoided costs such as the cost of billing for retail licences and the cost of supplying and treating the volume of water and the possible avoidance of capital investment for combined licences are subtracted from the tariff the customer pays to the incumbent supplier.
This means licensees can only gain profitable access by operating more efficiently than the incumbent undertaker.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 18 Operating and financial review continued Northumbrian Water Limited Financial performance in 2004 05 and year end position Turnover was 508.2 million for the year to 31 March 2005 ten months to 31 March 2004: 386.2 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 454.6 million.
The increased turnover during the year is mainly due to price increases following an IDoK by Ofwat.
NWL successfully applied for an increase in its price limits to fund unanticipated additional costs caused by increased customer bad debt, water quality monitoring and new obligations requiring capital expenditure.
In addition, a separate determination compensated for loss of revenue arising from the actual demand for water being lower than that allowed for by Ofwat at its 1999 price review.
Operating costs for the year were 306.4 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 252.8 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 301.9 million.
Depreciation increased by 9.8 million due to further capital investment.
Other cost increases reflecting general inflationary price rises have been offset by operational efficiency savings and the non-recurrence of exceptional costs from 2003 04.
Operating costs for the appointed business in 2004 05 are 7.6 million lower than those in the 1999 final determination, despite incurring additional costs not funded in that determination.
This reflects the continual drive in the business to identify and deliver efficiencies.
Operating profit for the year was 201.8 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 133.4 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 152.7 million, which reflects an increase in turnover of 53.6 million, offset slightly by a net increase in operating costs of 4.5 million.
Investment Net capital investment, excluding inter group costs at NWL, for the year was 208.8 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 156.7 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 161.6 million.
NWL has met its regulatory outputs required to meet quality objectives and delivered the capital efficiencies assumed by Ofwat.
Capital maintenance investment has remained in line with the Ofwat forecast.
Lower customer demand has resulted in lower investment relating to the supply demand balance and has meant that the regulated business has invested less than the Ofwat forecast for 2000-05.
To safeguard the quality of its water supplies, NWLs investment in new and refurbished assets continued.
The new water treatment works at Wearhead in County Durham was commissioned, serving the Wear Valley and Sunderland areas.
An extension to the water treatment works at Lound, serving the Lowestoft area in Suffolk, was also completed.
Work began at Horsley and Whittle define in Northumberland to provide additional treatment facilities to remove minute traces of pesticides occasionally present in the water.
Further progress has been made with the long term project to increase water resources in Essex by enlarging Abberton reservoir.
An allowance for the costs of the project during the next five years was made in NWLs final determination.
Further details on the scheme and its progress are given in the future development and performance section on page 25.
During the year, capital investment projects were also completed at Marske and Skinningrove on the Cleveland coast.
New underground storm water storage tanks were constructed at Marske to protect the quality of the adjacent designated bathing water.
At Skinningrove, the new sewage treatment works will improve the quality of the local watercourse and the sea.
Preparations were made for the provision of storm water storage tanks at Redcar.
Landscaping to create a water vole pool at Wear Valley water treatment works.
19 A number of sewerage projects were completed or started in Northumberland.
The replacement sewage treatment works at Belford, the new works at Boulmer and the transfer work at Hadston were all completed during the year.
Work began on the new sewage treatment works at Seahouses and new pipelines to transfer sewage from Bamburgh and Beadnell to Seahouses.
Preparations were also made for new sewage treatment works at Haggerston Castle and at Craster.
Customer performance NWL continues to provide its customers with excellent levels of service and is still the only water and sewerage company to have achieved a star rating for all aspects of its service standards by Ofwat.
However, for the third year running its performance was affected by exceptional adverse weather conditions.
Severe summer storms in August 2004 resulted in sewer flooding, and torrential rainfall in January 2005 increased the flow in the River Tyne to such an extent that the river washed away water mains serving Hexham, which is unprecedented, and the town was without water for several days.
For further details see the case study on page 5.
The drinking water regulations for both sampling and the provision of information Paul Burgess from NWLs Suffolk distribution team working from changed for 2004.
The sampling regime is now substantially changed, making his mobile office.
comparisons with previous years difficult.
However, NWLs own monitoring during 2004 demonstrated that its customers in its northern and southern areas continued to receive excellent quality drinking water.
The investment allowed in the Ofwat final determination towards the cost of tackling discoloured water will bring improvements for affected customers over the next five years and should also improve NWLs future score in the Ofwat performance measures.
The same is true of the investment allowed to reduce sewer flooding.
In 2004 05, our leakage level targets were agreed with Ofwat at 159.5 megalitres per day mld in the northern operating area, and 69.8 mld in the south.
Both targets were met in the period.
In 2003 04, we responded to 7,065 customer complaints across our northern and southern operating areas.
This equates to 3.5 complaints per 1,000 properties, below the industry average of 4.87 complaints per 1,000 properties.
WaterVoice audits the quality of our complaint handling.
During this process WaterVoice visits our premises to audit our procedures, track samples of complaint correspondence through our systems and assess the quality of our responses.
In 2003 04, 88.3% of all northern complaints and 96% of all southern complaints audited were scored as good.
NWL continued its successful initiative to encourage as many of its customers as possible to use direct debit, administratively the most efficient way to collect payment for bills.
Despite the increase in domestic bills, NWL maintained the previous years collection performance.
It was also an active participant in a WaterVoice debt conference, looking at the issue of affordability and the impact bad debts have both on companies and on the customers who pay their bills on time.
Developments were also made in the customer records systems, introducing two new customer systems and linking them to the companys geographical information system.
This development allows the better management of responses to customers calls and also allows customers records to be viewed in association with maps showing the location of their property and records of incidents and queries.
Customer calls, for example reporting discoloured water, are immediately plotted Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 20 Operating and financial review continued geographically, showing the development and potential spread of any incident.
The new system is used to predict actual and potential impacts and allows a much better service to be provided to customers.
This innovative development is a significant step forward within the industry and has generated considerable interest with Government and other utilities.
Commercial performance The number of companies taking advantage of NWLs innovative effluent treatment service at Bran Sands on Teesside was increased with the signing of a 25 year contract to treat effluent from fine chemicals company Degussa.
Following a successful pilot trial, a contract was signed with Lafarge for the use of the sewage sludge pellets produced by NWLs sludge driers at Bran Sands, as a fuel in the manufacture of cement.
The contract reduces NWLs disposal costs and Winter Wonderland delivers the magic of Christmas at NWLs provides a secure and sustainable outlet for the sludge.
NWL was also successful in Kielder Water.
a bid to supply water services to the new racecourse being built at Great Leighs, to the north of Chelmsford.
NWLs non-appointed businesses performed well.
Leisure not only reduced costs, but also increased the occupancy of its holiday cabins at Kielder and income from retail sales and fisheries at its reservoirs.
An imaginative new offering, Winter Wonderland, attracted nearly 4,000 customers to Kielder for a variety of activities before Christmas, a traditionally quiet period.
Property Solutions, which provides a range of service and environmental searches, continued to see its income and profitability grow despite the slow down in the property market.
Income from third party arrangements which provide insurance, water coolers and gardening products also continued to grow during the period.
Environmental performance NWL gained certification to ISO 14001, a framework of control for an Environmental Management System against which the company can be certified by a third party, for the whole of its business in December 2004.
This was a significant achievement which builds on the pioneering certification of its sewage treatment and recreation activities.
In 2004, NWLs sewage treatment works continued to perform to the highest levels and all met their consents during the year.
Compliance is measured by the EA and reported by Ofwat against standards set by the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive and the Water Resources Act.
The environmental impact of this performance is measured by beach and bathing water reports although other factors such as diffuse pollution can affect such performance.
In 2005, Encams announced that 16 beaches in the north east would receive seaside awards.
In 2004, the last year for which figures were published by the EA, 100% 33 bathing waters in NWLs area passed the EU mandatory standard and 70% 23 passed the guideline standard.
In addition, blue flags were awarded to seven beaches.
August 2004 was the wettest August in the UK since 1956, with more than twice the normal average rainfall for that month.
This rainfall was widespread, heavy and prolonged, with only eight dry days recorded in some areas.
Flooding was experienced in Hartlepool, Darlington and Bishop Auckland.
As a result, NWL is unlikely to achieve the highest levels of service in Ofwats sewer flooding categories when its results for 2004 05 are published.
21 In 2004, NWL was prosecuted for causing pollution of a burn in Houghton-le-Spring on two occasions in 2003, for which it paid fines totalling 2,000.
In January 2005, it was prosecuted on two occasions for a total of four minor pollution incidents, two in Cleveland and two in Durham, with fines totalling 4,270.
Although any prosecution is unacceptable, NWL had the fewest prosecutions in the water industry in England and Wales during the year.
Following negotiations last year, NWLs electricity demand since April 2004 has been supplied from green and high efficiency sources such as hydro, wind and high quality combined heat and power.
NWL also signed a long term agreement with RWE npower for it to operate and sell the energy from NWLs hydroelectric power station at Kielder Water.
Trends and factors underlying development, performance and position NWL performed well in Ofwats unit cost and relative efficiency assessment for 2003 04, published in January 2005.
It scored A grades the highest grade on an A to E scale for capital maintenance efficiency in both its water service and its sewerage service, and B grades for operating efficiency in its water service and its sewerage service.
A key example of NWLs drive for efficiency is the successful employment of the Six Sigma process improvement technique at its Bran Sands site which has now been extended to other areas of the business.
This and other performance improvement measures allowed NWL to beat its cost reduction targets for the year see case study on page 9. INTERNATIONAL WATER Northumbrian Water International NWI NWI is the trading division of NSL responsible for managing the Groups interests in contracts in Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
Turnover was 23.1 million in 2004 05 ten months to 31 March 2004: 17.6 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 20.7 million, reflecting the commissioning and subsequent operation of the Cork plant.
Operating profit for the year was 2.3 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 2.1million: 2003 04 pro forma: 2.2 million.
In Scotland, the Group is party to two private finance initiative PFI contracts with Scottish Water for waste water treatment.
At Levenmouth, where the Group has a 75% shareholding in both project and operating companies, the effluent treatment plant continues to perform well.
Improvements to the odour treatment facilities are under way with completion of commissioning and performance testing due in early 2006.
At Ayrshire, where the Group has a 50% interest in the project company and a 75% interest in the operating company, the three effluent treatment plants have also continued to perform well while the final certificate for the design and construction stage relating to the sludge treatment centre, was issued in November 2004.
NSL subsidiary AquaGib provides water services in Gibraltar.
In the Republic of Ireland, NWI is part of a consortium that designed and built a 70 million waste water treatment plant for Cork City Council.
The taking-over certificate was issued by the Council in September 2004 marking the completion of the design and construction phase and handover of the plant to NWI for the 20 year operation and maintenance phase of the contract.
AquaGib Limited, owned by the Group in joint venture with the Government of Gibraltar, continues to operate Gibraltars dual drinking water and sea water distribution systems under its 30 year contract with the Government of Gibraltar.
Potable water charges to customers were increased on 1 April 2005 for the first Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 22 Operating and financial review continued time since 1986 and the future level of Government subsidy for customers is still under discussion.
RELATED SERVICES COMPANIES The Groups non-water companies turnover was 87.7 million for the year ten months to 31 March 2004: 70.2 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 82.1 million and operating profit was 4.8 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 3.2 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 3.4 million.
The related services companies continue to build their businesses and to expand their client bases.
Entec UK Limited Entec Entec is one of the UKs largest environmental and engineering consultancy companies, employing around 600 people delivering projects to both the Group and a range of external organisations in the public and private sectors.
Over the last five years it has grown strongly to reach a turnover of 41.5 million for the year, up 5% on the previous year ten months to 31 March 2004: 33.8 million, with 77% of revenue now being generated outside the Group.
Services provided include water and industrial engineering, contaminated land remediation, development planning, risk and safety management, energy services, environmental appraisal, environmental management and compliance, sustainable John Maltman and John Cairns from Fastflow carry out water development, water management and waste management consultancy.
Project highlights during the year included a major partnering contract with Scottish Water Solutions, programme and project management services at UKAEA Dounreay, regeneration consultancy to the Telford Millennium Community project, research into affordable housing for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, technical advice to Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority for Europes largest waste PFI contract, a flood risk study for the Association of British Insurers and an integral role in a number of NWLs ongoing investment projects including the Wear Valley water treatment works.
Entec was named in an independent poll in Environment Business magazine as the environmental consultancy with the best reputation among customers of the 36 consultancies listed.
It was also named as the Royal Town Planning Institutes Planning Consultancy of the Year 2004.
Fastflow Pipeline Services Limited Fastflow Fastflow is the Groups specialist underground asset management business, providing water, sewer and gas network renewal and refurbishment services.
During 2004 05 it employed an average of around 220 people.
Turnover was 15.6 million during the year 2004 05, representing a reduction of 3% compared pro forma with 2003 04 ten months to 31 March 2004: 13.4 million.
Turnover and costs were adversely affected by the cyclical nature of water industry asset management programmes, which resulted in a reduction in workload.
The company is well placed for the demands of the next programme, having successfully tendered for Northumbrian Waters 2005-10 water mains rehabilitation contract.
23 During 2004, Fastflow also extended its capabilities to include gas pipeline work, and completed work to a value of over 0.5 million.
This provided valuable experience and another step in its strategy of developing specialist underground asset management skills.
Analytical & Environmental Services Limited AES AES is a leading environmental monitoring company providing high quality monitoring services, analysis and technical consultancy to major industrial groups, environmental regulators and local authorities throughout the UK and Ireland.
AES employs over 300 people in eight locations.
Although turnover from NWL decreased, total turnover for the year increased marginally to 13.2 million compared to the pro forma figures ten months to 31 March 2004: 10.9 million reflecting strong growth in external markets.
ULG working with fishermen in Bangladesh.
AES expanded in Wales after setting up a new office in Cwmbran as a base for its team of air quality scientists and occupational hygienists and will continue to extend its range of services during the coming year by offering a range of health and safety training courses.
AES successfully achieved accreditation for ISO 14001 during the year and MCERTS accreditation for a range of soils analysis.
A number of major contracts won were with environment agencies EA, SEPA and Irish EPA and in the mineral, retail and pharmaceutical sectors see case study on page 7. INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANCIES SA Agrer NV Agrer and ULG Northumbrian Limited ULG provide overseas aid funded project work through a number of funding agencies and a large database of associate consultants.
Agrer Agrer is based in Belgium, and employs 26 people working on agriculture and rural development, conservation and sustainable management projects.
Its turnover for the year was 6.0 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 3.8 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 4.4 million.
Agrer has won contracts with the EU as well as in Mali, the Democratic Republic of Congo and a contract to support the Belgian Federal Justice Department.
ULG ULG assists governments and local organisations to better manage their natural resources and support rural communities and employs eight people.
It had a successful year and its turnover was 3.4 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 2.6 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 3.0 million.
New projects were won in the Falkland Islands, Kosovo, Kyrgyz Republic, Romania, Tanzania and Uzbekistan, and ULG was awarded Investors in People status.
Northumbrian Water Technical Centre Limited NWTC The Technical Centre brings innovative solutions and productive partnerships to the Group and was merged with the technical department in NWL on 1 April 2005.
Its turnover for the year was 0.9 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 1.0 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 1.3 million.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE Ofwats review of NWLs price limits set a number of factors in place for the next five years to 2010 and, given the impact of NWL on the Group, it will be a significant influence on the future development, performance and position of the Group.
Beyond its regulated business, the Group anticipates modest organic growth in all areas.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 24 Operating and financial review continued Final determination Financial aspects The NWL price limits set by Ofwat for the next five years are: Price limits per year 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 % increase above inflation 6.5 3.7 3.2 1.0 0.6 The determination included assumptions on operating and capital efficiencies.
They were: annual average operating efficiency improvements of 1.2% for water and 2.0% for sewerage: overall capital maintenance efficiency improvements of 3.6% for water and 3.9% for sewerage for the full five year period : and overall capital enhancement improvements of 14.8% for water and 14.6% for sewerage for the full five year period.
NWLs Regulatory Capital Value will be: Regulatory Capital Value at 31 March 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 Outturn prices, assuming inflation of 2.5% per year million 2,628 2,759 2,879 2,983 3,062 Ofwat sets price limits using the industry cost of capital as a target rate of return on investment.
For the 2004 review of price limits, a figure of 5.1% real post tax was used.
However, for later years in the period, this return proved insufficient for many companies to achieve adequate financial ratios for relevant investment grade rating from ratings agencies.
Consequently, upward financeability adjustments to price limits were needed to ensure that the financial ratios will be sufficient.
In NWLs case, the financeability adjustment was 20 million 2002 03 prices over the five year period.
Investment aspects Over the next five years to 2010, NWL will invest 839 million 2002 03 prices on further improvements to its services and the environment.
This will include capital NWLs Wayne Marshall and Davey Miller working on a water maintenance as well as further improvements to the quality of drinking water, main improvement.
sewerage assets, discharges to the environment, and levels of service provided to customers.
As outlined in the resources, risks and relationships section on page 26, NWL is increasing its investment in maintaining its above ground sewerage assets, which have been assessed by Ofwat as deteriorating.
NWL has invested heavily in the provision of new above ground sewerage assets and has effectively doubled its asset base in this area in the last ten years.
Increased capital maintenance investment will achieve and maintain a stable performance.
The extent and impact of flooding from sewers is an issue of concern to NWL, its customers and WaterVoice.
The funding allowed for this service improvement will not eradicate the problem, but it will permit the worst cases to be addressed on the basis of a prioritisation scheme agreed with Ofwat and WaterVoice.
NWL will also continue to invest in new and improved sewage treatment works to meet the discharge standards required for the protection of environments designated as sensitive and the requirements of the EU Freshwater Fish Directive.
At the same time, NWL is continuing to invest in improvements to unsatisfactory sewage overflows and in the reduction of odours from a number of its sewage treatment works.
25 NWL has now entered the pre-planning submission stage of the project to enlarge its Abberton reservoir for water supply in Essex.
Already ten years in preparation, this major scheme involves changes to existing abstraction licences, the provision of new pipelines, the raising of the reservoirs existing dam by 3.2 metres and the construction of four additional small dams.
The planning application is due to be submitted in 2006 and, provided the planning process proceeds smoothly, construction will begin in 2010.
Once filled in 2014, the capacity of the enlarged reservoir will be some 60% greater, although with only a modest take-up of surrounding land.
Also during the next five years, NWL will: complete its 20 year mains relining programme and institute a mains flushing programme to further reduce the incidence of discoloured water: invest in further assets at three of its Northumberland water treatment works to provide additional protection against pesticides: and carry out a project to identify whether the management of the upland catchment of the River Tees would be effective in protecting the raw water quality.
Future trends and factors There is a range of known changes, both short term and longer term, that may have an impact on the future development, performance and position of NWGs subsidiaries in general and NWL in particular.
These include: the separation of WaterVoice from Ofwat in October 2005 and the replacement of Ofwat with the new Water Services Regulatory Authority, with a board instead of a Director General, in April 2006: the operation of the new competition regime in water supply, outlined in the current development and performance section on page 17, which will see the creation of new licences from the autumn of 2005: the introduction of new British and European legislation such as the Traffic Management Bill and Water Framework Directive, the deadlines in existing legislation such as the lower lead in drinking water requirement in 2013 and proposals for future legislation such as the proposal for water and sewerage companies to adopt private sewers : some of these could provide new commercial opportunities for Entec and AES: the impact of changes in population and industry levels, particularly with the development of the Thames Gateway area, on the demand for and supply of water: and the impact of climate change, particularly where it relates to the increased incidence of flooding and changes in rainfall patterns: this, too, could provide commercial opportunities for Entec.
RESOURCES, RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS Resources Water resources There are significant water resource differences between NWLs northern and southern areas.
In the north, the massive Kielder Water enables NWL, during periods of drought, to recharge the rivers from which it abstracts, ensuring there is sufficient water to meet its customers needs.
The picture is very different in NWLs southern area, where in a dry year it imports 50% of the water it needs in Essex.
AESs Ken Wood and Mark Elliott test waste emissions from an incinerator stack.
NWL has taken steps in both its operating areas to progressively reduce leakage from its mains such that leakage in both areas is at or below its economic level.
In its southern area NWL has also built the unique, award-winning Langford recycling plant that reclaims water that used to be lost to the environment.
NWL is also entering the pre-planning submission stages of the major long term project to enlarge its Abberton reservoir in Essex, working closely with the EA and other statutory consultees and stakeholders further details are given above.
In Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 26 Operating and financial review continued addition, NWL is continuing to encourage customers in both its areas to use water as wisely as possible through a wide-ranging educational and information programme.
In the southern operating area, where water resources are under pressure, NWL actively encourages its customers to opt to have a meter fitted.
In addition, NWL was one of the first companies to require a meter to be installed on changes of property ownership and, after a successful trial of this approach, this policy is now being rolled out across the Essex area.
In the northern area, which has a more favourable water resource situation, the policy is to respond positively to all requests for optional meters.
Infrastructure Ofwat measures the performance of water companies stewardship of their asset base under four categories water above and below ground and sewerage above and below ground.
NWL has been assessed as having a stable rating for the two water and the below ground sewerage assets, but its above ground sewerage assets were determined as deteriorating by Ofwat.
In the last five years, NWL has invested in sewerage above ground assets at levels over those assessed as being necessary by Ofwat at its last review of price levels.
NWLs Alistair Baker with a Red Kite which was released as part of the Northern Kites project.
This was a consequence of rigorous prioritisation to obtain the maximum benefit from combined maintenance expenditure in both water and sewerage assets.
Investing at the levels set by the regulator would, in NWLs view, have resulted in a substantial deterioration in asset performance, leading to a detrimental impact on the environment.
Total maintenance expenditure remained in line with Ofwat allowances.
Environment Policy and management The Group has a Sustainable Development Committee that meets at least twice per year.
Its function is to establish best practice, to ensure compliance on ethical, economic, environmental and social matters in the context of sustainable development and to evaluate future trends across the Group.
This committee interacts with NWLs management team, which formally considers sustainable development matters four times per year.
NWLs Sustainable Development Steering Group develops, monitors and reviews progress against NWLs sustainable development strategy and encourages and facilitates cross-functional decision making for sustainable development.
In addition, the Southern and Northern Area Community and Environment Committees guide local delivery and direction of environment, ethics and community issues within NWL.
NWG has an environment policy and a sustainable development policy.
The Managing Director is accountable to the Board for these issues.
Continual improvement against the policies is monitored through quality and environmental management systems.
Environment policy The Group is committed to preventing pollution, minimising its adverse environmental impacts, in the context of its activities as a water supply and sewerage undertaker, and promoting positive environmental outcomes.
This is demonstrated through research to promote and deliver innovative solutions, together with an ongoing commitment to improve its environmental performance across all its activities, including asset design, construction, operation and disposal, 27 focusing specifically on air and climate systems, the water environment, resource and raw material use, waste, conservation of biodiversity and heritage and local communities.
Sustainable development policy The Group aims to use resources efficiently and procure materials, goods and commodities on the basis of their environmental, social and economic impacts.
At the same time, NWL will work to reduce, where possible, the amount of wastes generated and reuse or recycle by-products.
It will also protect and enhance biological diversity, ecological systems and cultural heritage.
People Employee turnover within NWL and the other Group companies is stable, relative to the sectors in which the subsidiaries operate.
An overview of employees satisfaction with various aspects of NWL and Entec, the two largest employers in the Group, is given in the employees section on page 31.
Workforce profile The average number of employees in the main business units is as follows: Average number of Group business unit employees % NWL 2,475 65 NWI 134 4 Entec 599 16 Fastflow 222 6 AES 319 8 Other 43 1 Total employees 3,792 100 Financial The Group has substantial undrawn committed bank facilities available to it in the event that it is unable to raise finance at attractive rates from the markets at a particular time.
Risks and uncertainties All the subsidiaries within the Group are required to identify, and assess the impact of, risks to their businesses.
The Group uses a model that identifies risks under five headings environmental, external, operational, financial and reputational.
For each risk the unmanaged and managed likelihood and consequence are identified, management controls and frequency of monitoring are reported and the scale of the risks is assessed.
Further details of the Groups treasury risks are contained in note 19 to the financial statements.
Apart from NWL, none of the subsidiaries have risks considered to be significant Neal Warren from NWL's Essex distribution team carrying out routine maintenance on a stop valve.
to the Groups short and long term value.
The NWG Board considers social, environmental and ethical risks as outlined in the corporate governance report on page 46.
At NWL, measures have been set to enable it to determine whether the risks are significant to the business.
The model is reviewed in detail every year and the NWL management team assesses the appropriateness of each risk, its assessment and score in detail.
The outcome of this review is considered by the NWG and NWL Audit committees.
In addition, the management of significant risks is considered by the NWL board at each of its meetings.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 28 Operating and financial review continued The provisions of the Ofwat interim and final determinations and the measures taken by the Group to strengthen its financial position have removed many of the risks and uncertainties that existed at the time the Group entered the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in September 2003.
Those that remain can be classified as follows: Changes to the regulatory environment and to legislation Regulation functions in the place of competition in the water industry and regulators encourage high standards and the adoption of industry best practice.
As a result, NWL is subject to ever tightening standards, often requiring additional human and financial resources and the provision of new assets and systems.
Similarly, British and European legislation changes on a regular basis, and interpretation of existing laws can also change.
Ofwat is required to take account of changes in legal obligations applying to water companies when setting price limits at the five yearly periodic reviews.
Where changes having a material financial impact occur between reviews, they may trigger an interim determination, allowing NWL to request a change in prices before the end of the five year period.
Less significant unforeseen costs can be logged up, so that the costs can be taken into account retrospectively at the next price review.
The Group companies keep themselves informed of actual and likely changes to the regulatory and legislative frameworks, to anticipate, and where possible prepare for, the impact the changes will have.
Often, the same legislation that creates additional cost burdens in NWL also creates market opportunities for the other Group companies.
Changes to weather patterns and their impact The Groups main business, the provision of water and sewerage services, is closely linked to the water cycle and is therefore influenced by the vagaries of the British weather.
NWL is skilled and experienced in dealing with climatic uncertainties, both in terms of the impact of having too little and too much rainfall.
Weather patterns appear to be changing, with increasing incidences of hot, dry summers and heavy rain in winter.
However, severe localised storms seem to have become a regular occurrence in August in recent years, causing unwelcome sewer flooding to homes and properties.
Although completely outside its control, this has a detrimental impact on NWLs overall performance in the Ofwat service measures.
Excess water also had unexpected results in January 2005, when the twin water mains buried beneath the river bed, serving the Northumberland town of Hexham, were washed away by the swollen River Tyne.
Supplies were lost for up to seven days for the towns 6,800 properties.
NWLs response to this extreme event is described more fully in the case study on page 5.
Colleagues taking advantage of the facilities at Kielder Working with Entec, NWL has assessed the possible impact of global warming on Conference & Training Centre.
not only its own operations but also on those of key industrial and commercial customers.
The Group has arranged a conference for September 2005, with the CBI, on the impact of climate change.
In its northern area, because of Kielder Water and the water transfer scheme, NWL has sufficient water reserves and is able to keep its major rivers topped up during periods of drought.
However, its southern area is in one of the driest parts of the UK and NWL continues to do everything it can to ensure there is enough water available for customers needs.
NWL has an excellent record of leakage detection and repair in its northern and southern areas and has invested in its innovative, award-winning water recycling plant at Langford.
Its plans to enlarge Abberton reservoir in Essex, and to meet the water needs of the next 25 years, are now well advanced further details are provided on page 25.
29 Social, environmental and ethical risks The principal social, environmental or ethical risk considered to be significant to the value of the Group concerns the loss of NWLs ability to use its sewage sludge as a soil conditioner on agricultural land.
The potential impact of the risk would be to require NWL and other water and sewerage companies to find or develop alternative re-use or disposal routes for its sewage sludge, which could mean higher capital and revenue costs to provide additional sludge processing facilities.
However, as reported on page 8, NWL has recently signed a contract with Lafarge for the use of sewage sludge pellets as a fuel replacement in cement manufacture, which will secure the sludge disposal route in the medium term.
Relationships Reputation The Group has a strong reputation.
It is active in the communities it serves with Sir Trevor Brooking and NWLs John Mowbray at the launch a number of community programmes, including employee volunteering and of the southern Chill out campaign.
sponsorship, which are detailed in the social and community relations section on pages 32 to 34.
NWG has several research programmes which monitor customer satisfaction and reputation and identify areas which need improvement.
NWLs customer tracking survey is in its sixth year enabling it to monitor trends: the overall satisfaction level for 2004 was 87.25%, which is a rise of 0.25% from the previous years results.
Additional research with opinion formers in the north, completed at the beginning of 2004, concluded that their attitudes were largely positive towards NWG, held it in high regard and considered it to be one of the top companies in the region.
The reputation of NWG was further recognised by the number of awards it received during the period.
Stakeholder relations The Group as a whole has a code of conduct covering its relationships with its customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, shareholders and other investors and the environment.
For NWL, key relationships also include those with its regulators.
NWG undertakes regular dialogue with stakeholders, for example, via direct meetings with the business community or their representative groups such as the CBI and Chambers of Commerce.
It is an active member of these and other organisations.
It also meets regularly with national, regional and local authorities as well as MPs and MEPs and other appropriate organisations to explain ongoing work and issues.
This includes attendance at Party Conferences to ensure that it has the opportunity to speak to all representatives.
NWL interacts with local communities through public meetings and literature when it needs to explain the impact of work it requires to carry out in their area.
Industry relations NWL is a committed member of Water UK, the industry association that represents all UK water and waste water service suppliers at national and European level.
It provides a positive framework for the industry to engage with Government, regulators, stakeholder organisations and the public and helps to develop policy and improve understanding of the industry.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 30 Operating and financial review continued Investor relations Apart from statutory information, investors could request a copy of the Sustainable Development Performance Report for last year.
As part of its ongoing commitment to corporate governance, NWG has undertaken an independent survey of its largest shareholders to ascertain their views on a range of issues regarding the Company.
The overriding conclusion from the report was that shareholders are pleased with the performance of the Company: that the Company is well placed to achieve the operational targets set out in the regulatory review and that the management team has performed very well and is very accessible.
Regulatory NWL has good working relationships with its three main regulators Ofwat, EA, DWI and with WaterVoice.
It has also proactively built relationships with other bodies, such as English Nature and the National Trust, with the regional development agencies and local authorities in whose areas it operates, and with environmental and social charities.
These relationships were particularly useful during the Ofwat review of price limits: they allowed a full exchange of views and the seeking, and general achievement, of a consensus on the investment needs and priorities.
Key industrial customers NWL has a unique raw water base and a greater dependency on its key industrial customers than is the case with other UK water companies.
As a result, it has well-established relationships with its key industrial and commercial customers, forged through managed accounts.
This proactive approach to customers has allowed NWL not only to maintain existing relationships, but also to build its business by providing additional services to existing and new customers.
It has also contributed to the attraction of inward investment to the north east of England in NWLs Carolyn King taking part in a Just an hour challenge the past, by providing the right quality and availability of water, and access to creating a herb garden at Scotswood Community Gardens, effluent treatment services, that prospective investors find attractive.
Domestic customers Market surveys consistently show high levels of satisfaction among NWLs domestic customer base.
This customer loyalty was severely tested in January 2005 in Hexham, when the water supply to the whole area was interrupted for several days.
What could have been a customer relations disaster was avoided because of the efforts of our employees and their speed of response to what was a major emergency, as described in the case study on page 5.
Employees As the Group operates in a number of different sectors, with their own types of employment, it does not have a formal Group-wide employee policy.
Each subsidiary has its own policy, designed to reflect its own situation and to create the workforce it needs to meet its business objectives.
Nevertheless, each subsidiary aims to create a unified company that contains a diverse range of individuals: recruits and retains high calibre employees who are valued for their contribution and able to fulfil their potential: provides opportunities for its employees to develop their skills and capabilities so they are equipped and ready for the challenges they will face: establishes a stimulating and safe working environment in which a sensible work life balance is promoted and appropriate training is provided: and rewards individual and team contributions, while expecting employees to be committed to, and involved in, the companys future success.
Recruitment and retention rates within the Group differ from subsidiary to subsidiary, depending on the sector and type of employees concerned.
Generally, staff turnover levels are normal compared with the averages for the sector within 31 which each subsidiary operates.
For example, turnover in NWL during the year was less than 7%.
By comparison, the companies working in the consultancy sector experience a much higher turnover, as consultants tend to be more willing to move jobs.
However, Entecs level of staff turnover is less than 16%, much lower than that of its competitors.
The Group companies each have their strategies for retaining staff, including the provision of attractive terms and conditions, family-friendly policies and, in some cases, bonuses.
For example, during the course of the year, NWL took steps to introduce a job evaluation system and single salary policy, with a supporting equal pay audit being carried out across the business to harmonise its terms and conditions across its workforce.
It will introduce a flexible benefits scheme in 2005 06, including tax-efficient and money-saving opportunities for employees.
Since April 2004, Group employees have been able to invest in NWG shares in a tax-efficient way through the Share Incentive Plan SIP, which provides a free share for every three purchased.
By the end of the year, some 1,143 Group employees were involved in the SIP, owning a total of 944,569 NWG shares 0.18% of issued share capital.
Group companies carry out checks on the morale and motivation of their employees, both informally through the appraisal system and the analysis of absence statistics and more formally through employee attitude surveys.
NWL carries out such surveys on an annual basis.
They measure employees attitudes to the company and its image, management, communications, training and development, team spirit, health and safety, customer service and the environment.
Of those questioned in 2004, 82% said they enjoyed their job, 74% were proud to work for NWL, 72% were happy with their current position and 62% believed they had the opportunity to learn and grow as an employee.
The results of the 2004 survey showed an increase of 24% in the number of employees believing they were kept well informed about the companys future plans compared with the 2003 results.
Increases were also seen in job security up 16%, belief that the survey would lead to improvements up 15% and confidence in the senior management team up 12%.
The results were reported back to employees in a special booklet that identified employees key issues and the actions the management proposed to take in response.
Entec is the second largest subsidiary in the Group and it carries out its employee Lindsey Green and Chris Pratt from AES operating the satisfaction survey every two years.
The results of the survey carried out in May  which is used for the analysis of metals in soils and stack emission samples.
2004 showed an all-round increase in satisfaction levels since the last survey.
Training and development All Group companies are committed to the training and development of their employees, for the benefit of the individuals and the companies.
The main subsidiaries use annual appraisals to assess and encourage performance, to identify career development possibilities and training needs, and to provide a formal opportunity for feedback and dialogue.
During the year, NWL introduced skills matrices for every role, giving details of training undertaken to date and identifying current and future training needs and priorities, particularly for key technical and health and safety training.
NWL also introduced a new passport system for its employees in operational roles: the passports outline the training and occupational health standards required for the role they undertake.
The passports are generated by a new human resources Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 32 Operating and financial review continued system introduced during the year, called mydata, which gives employees and their managers self-service access to data held on them, including employment and training records, qualifications, emergency contacts and pay slip details.
It will be further developed during 2005 06 to provide leave and sickness absence records.
To develop its leaders, NWL has three formal training programmes the graduate development programme GDP for newly recruited graduates, the management development programme MDP for senior managers and the team leader development programme TLDP for junior managers, supervisors and team leaders.
In its four years of operation, 17 graduates have joined the GDP and the majority of those who have completed the programme have gone on to gain a permanent management or technical position within NWL.
The MDP and TLDP programmes are centred around the capability framework NWL has developed for its managers and team leaders.
Around 150 senior managers have taken part in the MDP programme over the last four years and a further 36 will join it in 2005 06.
The TLDP was introduced during the year: over the next three years around 250 team leaders will take part in the programme.
It covers similar areas to the MDP, focusing on leadership skills, individuals strengths and weaknesses, understanding the needs of others and communication skills.
NWL also runs an apprenticeship programme in its maintenance craft area with a view to employing up to three young people each year.
NWL is collaborating with the Learning and Skills Council to equip employees with essential skills for the workplace.
The intention is for NWL to create its own accredited learning framework as part of an application for Investors in People in 2006 07.
Working environment A safe working environment is essential for all Group companies, particularly those that have employees whose roles involve working with hazardous substances or in potentially dangerous situations.
All Group companies have health and safety policies and ensure that their employees receive the necessary training to safely carry out their jobs.
They also have policies to promote the health and wellbeing of their workforces.
During the year, NWL introduced a new five year health and safety plan, including reductions it wishes to see in the number of reportable accidents year on year.
To encourage its employees to be more aware of their own, and their colleagues safety, it also introduced an initiative, Care for safety, whereby the correct reporting The launch of Care for safety at Lumley Castle, County Durham.
of accidents and hazards, the lack of reportable accidents and the encouragement of positive behaviour resulted in monthly cash payments to the charity Mencap.
In the first 12 months of operation, the charity has received 20,500.
However, NWL had 44 reportable accidents during 2004 05, an increase over 2003 04 figures.
NWL also introduced its Just culture framework for the investigation of reportable accidents.
This seeks to identify the causes and implications of accidents and to ensure that lessons are learned and safe behaviour and practices are encouraged.
Social and community relations The Group policy is to support the communities in which it operates and in other areas where considered appropriate.
Subsidiary companies are permitted to make charitable donations, educational and cultural contributions, gifts in kind and to encourage employee volunteering and fund raising.
The level of the support given is appropriate to the size and profitability of the subsidiary and the impact it has on 33 the community in which it operates.
All support is provided in accordance with the Group code of conduct.
Group subsidiaries operate in different sectors and with widely varying impacts on their local communities, so each has its own practice so far as the Group policy is applied.
For the small subsidiaries, although the scope for social involvement is limited, they variously support charities and employees fund raising efforts, provide work-place opportunities for school children or university students or provide training for unemployed people.
NWL, AES and ULG encourage their employees to take part in community activities through their Just an hour programmes, details of which are given below.
NWG is a member of Business in the Communitys Per Cent Club, donating 2.2% of pre tax profit to the community in terms of cash, facilities used and time given.
Employee involvement runs throughout the Group and, in the north east, John Cuthbert chairs the Business Leaders Group of Business in the Community to help promote responsible involvement by other companies as well as NWG.
He also chairs the Regional Skills Partnership, which promotes the proper development and provision of skills in the north east.
The Group has also taken the lead nationally in such issues as the provision of Affordable Rural Housing.
This is all part of NWGs responsible business practice and this work has been recognised in different ways.
NWGs application to the FTSE4Good UK Index was accepted in September 2004 and NWL completed the Corporate Responsibility Index for Business in the Community for the second year running and moved up to 28th place.
In May 2004, NWL was awarded the Business in the Community Award at the North East Business Awards organised by the Trinity Mirror Group and Essex & Suffolk Water received the Essex Countywide Business Award-Community Category 2004, both for their active community involvement.
NWLs southern distribution team Just an hour challenge to lay a water supply to the 201 year old Smock Windmill in Upminster, Essex.
Because of its size, the community nature of its business and the impact of its capital investment programme, NWL has the greatest social and community involvement in the Group.
Its community involvement policy focuses its support on five key areas economy, social inclusion, environment, education and regional support building partnerships and providing resources rather than giving grants and sponsorship, with employee volunteering being key to its success.
A key part of the implementation of NWLs policy is its Just an hour programme, which allows employees to give at least 12 hours of work time per year to a community or environmental project.
During the year, 738 of its employees 29.5% of the workforce were registered for the programme, of which 427 58% actively took part in a project, completing a total of 3,717 hours of voluntary work.
This is an increase of 16% on the amount of hours volunteered in 2003 04. AES has also adopted the programme.
Just an hour projects completed during the year include: refurbishing a drop-in centre in Upper Teesdale, planting 2,000 trees in the new nature reserve at Abberton reservoir, making gardens and erecting fencing at Bill Quay Community Farm in Gateshead, holding industry and young enterprise days at schools in Essex and helping primary school pupils in inner city Newcastle with their IT and English skills through an e-pals project see case study on page 12.
NWL supports many projects that promote the economic regeneration of the areas it serves, working with organisations such as the regional development agencies, Newcastle Gateshead initiative, Essex Economic Partnership and Kielder Partnership.
Each has specific outputs in terms of impact on jobs and investment.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 34 Operating and financial review continued During the year, NWL agreed to become water and crew sponsor for the visit of the Tall Ships Race to Newcastle and Gateshead in July 2005.
The sponsorship will provide the ships with water and will enable a number of young people to take part in stages of the race.
NWLs social inclusion projects are targeted at improving the health and fitness of its customers.
These include: Water for health, a programme to raise the awareness of children, the elderly and families of the importance of drinking sufficient water: the Chance to live initiative, working with the Northern Echo, Durham Primary Healthcare Trust and Wear Valley District Council, to encourage people to be more active: and support to Durham and Essex County Cricket Clubs to encourage more children to actively participate in the sport.
NWL continued its partnerships with the Essex, Durham and Northumberland Wildlife Trusts, Broads Authority and the Davy Down Trust in Essex through which it employs trained people to carry out conservation work and education programmes.
It is also one of the main partners in a project to re-introduce red kites to north east England.
Two dozen of these magnificent birds of prey were released in 2004 and a similar number will join them in both of the next two years.
Many Just an hour projects are educationally based, supporting learning and the development of skills amongst pupils and university students.
In addition, NWL works with schools to support their delivery of the national curriculum.
During the year, this included 30 presentations to schools, 65 site visits and ten industry days.
NWL has established funds with the Community Foundations in Tyne & Wear and Northumberland, Essex, Cleveland and Durham.
These endowments provide an annual income to support community projects that fit NWLs five support areas.
The funds are managed and allocated locally by an employee committee with support and advice from Community Foundation staff.
During the year, 57 applications were received by the four committees and a total of 13,649 was given to 44 projects.
At the end of the year the four Community Foundation funds held 763,000.
NWL is also represented at board level on two of the Foundations.
NWL endeavours to ensure that its operations have as little impact as possible on local communities.
However, the nature of its services means that this is not always possible.
For example, major capital investment projects can cause some inconvenience because of the transport of materials and occasionally the closure of access to areas involved.
Where warranted, NWL establishes funds with the local Community Foundation to support the communities inconvenienced: such a fund was set up in Marske in Cleveland, worth 10,000, in association with NWLs storm water storage tank installation project.
A fund was also established following the Hexham incident, described on page 5.
It will support community projects in the Hexham area to recognise the patience and understanding of residents during the week they were without a water supply.
The 150,000 Pipeline Fund is administered by the Community Foundation for Tyne & Wear and Northumberland.
A further 75,000 was pledged to Tynedale Council for the long term plans to improve a local area.
NWG has supported the international charity, WaterAid since 1981 via direct financial support to the charity and support of a fundraising committee within the Group.
Since 1997, the committee has raised over 1.5 million, changing the lives of over 100,000 people in Africa and Asia, who do not have access to clean water and sanitation.
NWLs Dave Whiteley on a trip to Tanzania to see the benefits WaterAid brings.
35 FINANCIAL REVIEW CURRENT AND FUTURE Group financial performance The Groups turnover was 578.6 million for the year to 31 March 2005 ten months to 31 March 2004: 442.1 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 520.8 million, largely reflecting NWLs successful application to Ofwat for an IDoK for 2004 05.
Operating profit for the year was 204.7 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 143.6 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 164.3 million.
Operating costs have increased by 4.5 million at NWL: the reasons for the increase at NWL are given on page 18.
Net interest payable was 99.1 million for the year ten months to 31 March 2004 before exceptionals: 92.8 million: 2003 04 pro forma before exceptionals: 105.3 million and includes 14.1 million amortisation of debt fair value ten months and pro forma to 31 March 2004: 5.3 million and 3.8 million of one-off gains from the cancellation of interest rate hedging, and settlement of outstanding tax claims.
NWLs Barry Hook checking water clarity at Horsley water The tax charge for the year was 10.4 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 14.0 treatment works in Northumberland.
million credit: 2003 04 pro forma: 13.5 million credit comprising corporation tax of 1.5 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 9.1 million credit: 2003 04 pro forma: 8.8 million credit and deferred tax of 8.9 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 4.9 million credit: 2003 04 pro forma: 4.7 million credit.
The corporation tax charge was offset by modest prior year credits compared to 2004 and, unlike 2004, there are no exceptional items.
The deferred tax charge was offset by prior year credits but increased by approximately 4.0 million due to a reduction in discount resulting from a decrease in long term gilt yields over the year.
Profit on ordinary activities after tax for the year to 31 March 2005 was 98.4 million ten months to 31 March 2004: 59.5 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 67.5 million, largely reflecting increased price limits at NWL and the interest credits noted above.
Additionally, there were no exceptional costs in the year ten months and pro forma to 31 March 2004: 8.0 million.
NWGs net debt increased by 11.5 million to 1,881.0 million compared with 31 March 2004.
The Groups gearing at 31 March 2005, based on its net debt divided by NWLs RCV at 31 March 2005 of 2,468.3 million, was 76% 73% excluding the unamortised debt fair value.
Cash interest cover for the Group is 2.7 times, reflecting the better trading performance.
Similarly, the improvements in net cash inflow from operating activities has helped to improve the ratio for cash flow to net debt.
Gearing for NWLs appointed business at 31 March 2005, based on its net debt divided by its RCV at that date was 59% 2004: 59%, whilst cash interest cover improved to 3.4 times.
Financial review statement Ofwat published its final determination for NWL on 2 December 2004, allowing NWL to raise its price limits by 15% above the rate of inflation over the years 2005-10.
This was a significant increase on the draft determination of 7.8%.
NWG announced on 15 December 2004 that the NWL board had accepted the review.
The final determination includes allowances for increases to base operating expenditure for energy costs and pension contributions, and takes into account the impact of new Inland Revenue tax rules on the business.
It also sets the investment programme and outputs that NWL must deliver over the next five years.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 36 Operating and financial review continued Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis under the historical cost convention.
The directors have arrived at their decision based on consideration of the Groups net current liabilities in relation to the Groups detailed budget for 2005 06 and the business plan for the period to 31 March 2010. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group will publish its results under IFRS for the six months to 30 September 2005 and for the year ending 31 March 2006.
The Group does not currently anticipate adopting IFRS at subsidiary level within the Group.
The major differences in accounting policies expected to have an impact on the Group are deferred tax, retirement benefits, fixed asset accounting, business combinations and intangible assets.
The adoption of IFRS will have no impact on cash flow or dividends for the Group.
The full impact of the adoption of IFRS on the financial statements will be communicated in a presentation to analysts and investors, planned for September 2005.
Capital structure The main business is that of the Groups key subsidiary, NWL, which involves the ownership and operation of assets, and investment in the maintenance of existing assets and the provision of new ones.
As a consequence, the Group has a substantial, and growing, level of debt.
In excess of 88% of the Group debt is arranged on a fixed interest basis and has an average maturity of 18 years.
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk and exposure it does have to changes in interest rates by matching long term assets with long term liabilities, such as long term bonds.
Since flotation of the Group in May 2003, the Group has taken a number of actions to strengthen the capital structure.
The first of these occurred before the current period, in December 2003, when Ofwat responded favourably to an application by NWL to increase its price limits in real terms in 2004 05.
Finance Director Chris Green presenting at a Building our future roadshow.
On 12 May 2004, the Group announced the securitisation of NWLs contract with the EA to operate the Kielder Water transfer scheme.
The net proceeds of 212.1 million arising from a 30 year bond were used to repay short term acquisition debt of 205 million.
The European Investment Bank EIB confirmed, on 12 May 2004, its intention to remain as a lender to NWL following the Groups change of ownership.
Ofwat issued a position paper on 12 July 2004, which concluded that NWL had taken adequate measures to demonstrate, both to the regulator and to the capital markets, that it was able to raise finance and to fund investment programmes.
In December 2004, NWLs finance subsidiary issued a 100 million increase to its 2033 Eurobond.
The proceeds were used to repay short term working capital facilities, thereby extending the profile of the debt maturity and funding the ongoing capital programme.
The all-in cost of this additional issue 5.75% was similar to the all-in cost of the original 250 million raised in December 2002.
Working capital facilities of 125 million have been arranged for a five year term by NSL in May 2005, to part refinance the NSL bond when it matures in June 2006.
The balance required will be covered by available cash at NSL.
Similar facilities, with 364 day and five year maturities, were also arranged for NWL, totalling 150 million, to provide additional working capital during the initial phase of the 2005- 10 capital investment programme.
37 Credit rating Moodys initiated coverage of NWL with a credit rating of Baa1 on 8 April 2004, consistent with the Fitch rating of BBB announced on 11 December 2003.
S&Ps improved its rating outlook for NWL from BBB stable to BBB positive on 16 April 2004 and increased its rating to BBB stable on 25 January 2005.
Treasury policies and objectives The main purposes of the Groups treasury function are to assess the Groups ongoing capital requirement, to maintain short term liquidity and to raise funding, taking advantage of any favourable market opportunities.
It ensures access to short and medium term committed back up facilities, split between a one year and five year basis.
It also invests any surplus funds the Group may have, based on its forecast requirements and in accordance with the Groups treasury policy.
On occasions, derivatives are used as part of this process, but the Groups policies prohibit their use for speculation.
Full details are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
The Group is operating in compliance with its policies.
Cash flows liquidity As noted previously, the Group has available substantial undrawn committed bank facilities at NSL and NWL in order to maintain general liquidity.
The improved credit ratings and the growth in the share price also reflects the growing confidence in the Group, following the actions taken to make itself more financially robust.
As at 31 March 2005, NWG has experienced significant share price growth since its AIM listing in May 2003.
The Board believes the actions it has taken to address the short term liquidity concerns of the ratings agencies and the regulatory decisions have all had a part to play in this growth.
Earnings per share and dividends Basic and diluted earnings per share were 19.1 pence ten months to 31 March 2004: 11.5 pence: 2003 04 pro forma: 14.4 pence.
Earnings per share, adjusted for deferred tax and the amortisation of debt fair value were 18.1 pence ten months to 31 March 2004: 11.2 pence, before exceptionals, deferred tax and the amortisation of debt fair value: 2003 04 pro forma: 14.2 pence.
A final dividend of 7.13 pence per share for the year ended 31 March 2005 will be recommended by the Board to the AGM on 28 July 2005 and, if approved, will be paid on 16 September 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business Water releases from NWLs Kielder Water.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.87 pence per share, the dividend for the year will be 10.00 pence per share ten months to 31 March 2004: 6.95 pence per share.
This represents an increase of 20% on the dividend for the 2003 04 pro forma trading period.
The dividend cover for the year is 1.9 times and 1.8 excluding deferred tax and the amortisation of debt fair value.
The proposed dividend reflects increased confidence following the substantial improvements made to the Groups balance sheet over the last year and the removal of uncertainty following the Ofwat periodic review of prices.
The board of our main subsidiary, NWL, has proposed a dividend policy consistent with the underlying assumptions adopted by Ofwat in its recent final determination.
Looking to the end of the current regulatory period, NWG expects to be able to maintain a progressive dividend policy with real increases of around 3% p. a. Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 38 Operating and financial review continued The Board believes this provides shareholders with a sustainable policy consistent with the regulatory environment within which NWL operates and reflects the ongoing benefits at the Group from refinancing.
The policy is also consistent with maintaining Group and NWL gearing at around current levels over the medium term excluding the unamortised fair value adjustment, due to acquisition debt at 23 May 2003.
Pensions The Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The defined benefit pension scheme provides benefits based on final pensionable NWLs John Robson receiving the World of Difference Award remuneration to 2,407 employees across the Group, however, this scheme is now for Wear Valley water treatment works.
only open to new employees joining NWL.
As part of the Ofwat periodic review process, the price increases NWL is allowed to make by the regulator between 2005-10 include an element to cover the anticipated increase in pension contribution rates that will be effective in January 2006.
The defined contribution pension scheme provides defined benefits to 886 employees.
The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2004 is currently in progress.
Employer contribution rates will be reviewed once the results of this valuation are known.
The disclosures required by FRS 17 Retirement benefits are contained in note 25 to the financial statements.
This operating and financial review was approved by the Board on 7 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by the Managing Director.
It will be put to the shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM.
John Cuthbert Managing Director 7 June 2005
