FINANCIAL REVIEW Adjusted operating profit increased 22% to 509m on Interest Net interest payable in 2005 was 77m, up from a continuing business basis.
Although we were partly protected by our xed rate policy see page 10, the strong rise in Our adjusted earnings exclude other gains and losses US dollar oating interest rates had an adverse effect.
on the sale or closure of businesses.
We also exclude Year on year, average three month LIBOR weighted amortisation of acquired intangible assets dened for the Groups borrowings in US dollars, Euro and under IFRS 3 : short-term uctuations in the market Sterling rose by 1.9% to 3.4%.
In addition, in 2005 value of financial instruments as determined under we did not benefit from a one-off credit of 9m for IAS 39 and other currency movements charged to interest on a repayment of tax that occurred in 2004. statutory profits in accordance with IAS 21.
These increases were offset by the 260m fall in average Statutory numbers in 2005 are signicantly improved net debt, reecting in particular the proceeds from by profits on disposals notably Recoletos and the disposal of Recoletos and good cash generation.
Marketwatch : statutory profit for the year was 644m, The Groups average net interest rate payable rose by up 360m on 2004, with continuing operations up 0.9% to 5.9%.
Taxation The tax rate on adjusted earnings has barely This year we saw relatively small effects of exchange changed from 2004 to 2005, reducing from 30.9% to on our income statement.
The average US dollar rate 30.3%.
The tax rate on adjusted earnings is very close against sterling strengthened slightly to 1:$1.81 to the UK statutory rate of 30%.
The higher tax rate 2004: 1:$1.83 which marginally increased our on US and overseas profits was offset by the use of reported operating profit.
However, the strong year UK losses and by credits relating to previous years, end dollar 1:$1.72 vs 1:$1.92 in 2004 clearly had a reecting continued progress in settlement of the significant impact on our balance sheet.
Groups affairs with the authorities.
The total tax charge for the year was 124m, Financial statements representing a 27% rate on pre-tax profits of 466m These are our first set of consolidated financial on a statutory basis excluding discontinued statements under International Financial Reporting operations.
This compares with a 2004 rate of 19% Standards IFRS.
We have chosen a transition date or 63m on a pre-tax profit of 325m.
In 2004, to IFRS of 1 January 2003, which means we have the tax charge reected credits of 48m relating to comparable data under IFRS for both 2004 and 2003 previous years, a substantial element of which was displayed in our financial statements.
Where material, non-recurring: adjustments relating to previous years the impact of IFRS on our accounts is discussed below.
in 2005 resulted in a credit of 18m.
The 2005 rate benefited from the fact that the profit of 40m on the sale of Marketwatch.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Minority interests Following the disposal of our 79% The UK scheme was valued as at 1 January 2004 and holding in Recoletos in April 2005 and the purchase the next valuation will be as at 1 January 2006.
As a of the 25% minority stake in Edexcel our minority result of the 2004 valuation, the Company agreed to interests now comprise mainly the 39% minority share increase contributions to 30m in respect of 2004: in IDC.
In January 2006 we increased our stake in IDC to 35m in 2005: and to 41m annually from 2006 by the purchase of 1.1m shares, so the future minority to 2014. interest will be 38%.
Our total gross liability for retirement benets was Dividends Under IFRS, dividends are accrued only 389m at 31 December 2005 2004: 408m of once approved.
Therefore, the dividend accounted which the UK scheme represented 271m, a for in our 2005 financial statements totalling 205m, reduction from 304m in 2004 as a result of good represents the final dividend 15.7p in respect of investment performance.
2004 and the 2005 interim dividend of 10p.
Accounting policies and disclosures As noted above, We are proposing a final dividend for 2005 of 17p, Pearson has adopted IFRS for its 2005 consolidated bringing the total paid and payable in respect of 2005 financial statements, in compliance with European to 27p, a 6.5% increase on 2004.
This has resulted in changes to the proposed dividend was approved by the board in format of presentation but has had no impact on the February 2006, is subject to shareholder approval cash resources available to the Group.
A full list of IFRS at the forthcoming AGM and will be charged accounting policies can be found in note 1 to our against 2006 profits.
In 2005, the dividend paid financial statements.
including minorities is covered 1.9 times by total In summary, the main changes to our reported 2005 free cash ow.
statutory accounts from IFRS adoption are as follows: We seek to maintain a balance between the Goodwill and other intangibles Under IFRS 3 Business requirements of our shareholders for a rising stream of Combinations, goodwill is no longer amortised, but dividend income and the reinvestment opportunities instead is assessed annually for impairment.
Goodwill which we identify around the Group.
This balance has which arose on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003 been expressed in recent years as a desire to increase and which was capitalised under UK GAAP has not our annual dividend by more than ination, while also been restated: other intangible assets arising from reinvesting a higher proportion of our distributable acquisitions since 1 January 2003 have been separately earnings in our businesses.
identied, fair valued and capitalised.
They are being amortised over their estimated useful economic life.
Other financial items The charge to the income statement for such Pensions Pearson operates a variety of pension amortisation was 11m in 2005 2004: 5m.
Our UK scheme is by far the largest and we also have some smaller dened benefit schemes in the Share-based payments Under IFRS 2 Share-based US and Canada.
Outside the UK, most of our payment, a proportion of the imputed fair value companies operate dened contribution schemes.
at the date of grant of restricted shares, SAYE schemes Pension funding levels are kept under regular review and share options issued to employees has been by the Company and the Fund trustees.
The proportion charged is determined with respect to the relevant vesting period.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Employee benets Under IAS 19 Employee Benets, Managing our financial risks assets and liabilities relating to pension and other This section explains the Groups approach to the post-retirement benets are valued and accounted for management of financial risk.
at the balance sheet date.
Treasury policy The Group holds financial instruments The income statement expense is determined using for two principal purposes: to finance its operations annually derived assumptions as to salary ination, and to manage the interest rate and currency risks investment returns and discount rates, based arising from its operations and its sources of finance.
on prevailing conditions at the start of the year.
The Group nances its operations by a mixture of cash The assumptions for 2005 are disclosed in note 24 ows from operations, short-term borrowings from to our accounts, along with the year-end deficits in banks and commercial paper markets, and longer term our dened benefit schemes.
We recognise actuarial loans from banks and capital markets.
The Group gains and losses arising when assumptions diverge borrows principally in US dollars, Euro and Sterling, from reality through the statement of recognised at both oating and xed rates of interest, using income and expense SORIE.
derivative financial instruments derivatives, where appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency Our charge to profit in respect of worldwide pensions prole and interest rate basis.
The derivatives used under IAS 19 amounted to 64m in 2005 2004: 57m for this purpose are principally rate swaps, rate caps of which a charge of 60m was reported in operating and collars, currency rate swaps and forward foreign profit and the net finance charge 4m was reported exchange contracts.
The main risks arising from the against interest.
Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, Pearson has adopted IAS 39, Financial Instruments: liquidity and renancing risk, counterparty risk and Recognition and Measurement as at 1 January 2005, foreign currency risk.
These risks are managed by and the results of this are detailed below under our the chief financial officer under policies approved Treasury policy.
by the treasury committee of the board, which are summarised below.
Apart from the change to interest There are a number of other relatively minor statutory rate policy and the modication to currency risk policy presentation and disclosure changes under IFRS which identied below, all other treasury policies have are treated consistently across our 2005 actual IFRS remained unchanged throughout 2005.
The treasury reported numbers and our 2004 and 2003 restated committee of the board, and a group of external comparatives.
The total impact of these changes on treasury advisers, receives reports on the Groups previously reported profits can be seen from treasury activities, policies and procedures.
our five-year summary at the back of the The treasury department is not a profit centre financial statements.
and its activities are subject to regular internal audit.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest From 1 January 2005 the Group adopted IAS 39 rate uctuations on its borrowings is managed by Financial Instruments: Recognition and borrowing on a xed rate basis and by entering into Measurement.
The market values of the Groups rate swaps, rate caps and forward rate agreements.
derivatives were taken onto the balance sheet at the Since September 2005 the Groups policy objective adoption date.
Subsequent changes in them will has been to set a target proportion of its forecast change the carrying values on the balance sheet and borrowings taken at the year end, with cash netted create movements in the finance costs section of the against oating rate debt to be hedged i. e. xed income statement, unless they have been designated or capped over the next four years, subject to a and passed the prescribed tests for hedge accounting maximum of 65% and a minimum that starts at treatment.
By contrast, under UK GAAP accounting, 40% and falls by 10% at each year end.
Previously the except for the impact of some currency rate derivatives, minimum was 40% throughout.
At the end of 2005 the the values of derivatives were not carried in the balance hedging ratio was 55%.
A simultaneous 1% change on sheet, nor were movements in those values taken to 1 January in the Groups variable interest rates in each the income statement although information on of US dollar, Euro and Sterling, taking into account derivatives was disclosed in the notes.
Thus both the forecast seasonal debt would have a 7m effect on balance sheet and the income statement have the profit before tax.
potential to be more volatile under IAS 39 than they Use of interest rate derivatives The policy in the section were before.
above creates a group of derivatives, under which the In addition, IAS 39 required us to value our derivatives Group is a payer of xed rates and a receiver of oating at 1 January 2005 as if the standard had been in place rates.
The Group also strives to avoid undue exposure at the start date of each individual contract.
This has to a single interest rate setting.
Reecting this, it swaps given rise to transition adjustments, which in some its xed rate bond issues to oating rate at their cases will have to be amortised over the remaining life launch.
These create a second group of derivatives, of the relevant transaction.
Also, where we have under which the Group is a receiver of xed rates achieved hedge accounting on a derivative, and a payer of oating rates.
the carrying value of the relevant bond is adjusted at The Groups accounting objective in its use of interest each reporting date to reect this in addition to the rate derivatives is to minimise the impact on the requirement under IFRS that accrued interest should income statement of changes in the mark-to-market be included in the carrying value of the bond or value of its derivative portfolio as a whole.
It uses derivative, in contrast to its treatment as a creditor duration calculations to estimate the sensitivity of the under UK GAAP.
derivatives to movements in market rates.
The Group As the Company elected to adopt IAS 39 from also identies which derivatives are eligible for fair 1 January 2005, the effects described above are not value hedge accounting which reduces sharply the reected in the 2004 and 2003 comparatives.
income statement impact of changes in the market value of a derivative.
The Group then divides the total portfolio between hedge-accounted and pooled segments, so that the expected movement on the pooled segment is minimal.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Liquidity and renancing risk The Groups objective Net borrowings xed and oating rate is to procure continuity of funding at a reasonable 2005 2004 mm cost.
To do this it seeks to arrange committed funding for a variety of maturities from a diversity of sources.
Fixed Rate 549 740 The Groups policy objective has been that the Floating Rate 447 481 weighted average maturity of its core gross borrowings Total 996 1,221 treating short-term advances as having the final maturity of the facilities available to renance them Gross Borrowings should be between three and 10 years.
At the end of 2005 2004 2005 the average maturity of gross borrowings was m m five years and non-banks provided 1,855m 95% Bank debt 105 173 of them down from six years and up from 91% respectively at the beginning of the year.
The Group Bonds 1,854 1,650 believes that ready access to different funding markets Total 1,959 1,823 also helps to reduce its liquidity risk, and that published credit ratings and published financial Gross borrowings by currency policies improve such access.
All of the Groups Currency credit ratings remained unchanged during the year.
As reported derivatives Combined The long-term ratings are Baa1 from Moodys and 2005 2005 2005 2004 BBB from Standard & Poors, and the short-term m m m m ratings are P2 and A2 respectively.
The Group strives US dollar 1,165 290 1,455 1,335 to maintain a rating of at least BBB Baa1 over Sterling 357 150 207 202 the long term.
The Group will also continue to use Euro 437 140 297 284 internally a range of ratios to monitor and manage its nances.
These include interest cover, net debt to Other 2 operating profit, net debt to enterprise value and cash Total 1,959 1,959 1,823 ow to debt measures.
The Group also maintains undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At the end of 2005 these amounted to 786m and their weighted average maturity was 3.5 years.
P PEARSON EARSON G GO OVERN VERNANCE ANCE AND AND F FIN INANCIAL ANCIAL S ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S 2005 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Counterparty risk The Groups risk of loss on deposits Previously, the policy applied specically to US dollars, or derivative contracts with individual banks is Euro and Sterling.
However, the Group still borrows managed in part through the use of counterparty small amounts in other currencies, typically for limits.
These limits, which take published credit limits seasonal working capital needs.
In addition, the Group among other things into account, are approved by currently expect to hold the legacy borrowings the Chief financial officer.
In addition, for a currency in Euro and Sterling to their maturity dates: our rate swap that transforms a major part of the 6.125% policy does not require existing currency debt to Euro Bonds due 2007 into a US dollar liability, the be terminated to match declines in that currencys Group has entered into a mark-to-market agreement share of group operating profit.
Included within which signicantly reduces the counterparty risk of year end net debt, the net borrowings cash in the that transaction.
three principal currencies above taking into account the effect of cross currency swaps were: US dollar Currency risk Although the Group is based in the 1,114m, Euro 78m and Sterling 93 m. UK, it has its most significant investment in overseas operations.
The most significant currency for the Use of currency debt and derivatives The Group uses Group is the US dollar.
The Groups policy on both currency denominated debt and derivative routine transactional conversions between currencies instruments to implement the above policy.
for example, the collection of receivables, and the Its intention is that gains losses on the derivatives settlement of payables or interest remains that these and debt offset the losses gains on the foreign currency should be completed at the relevant spot exchange assets and income.
Each quarter the value of hedging rate.
No unremitted profits are hedged with foreign instruments is monitored against the assets in the exchange contracts, as the Company judges it relevant currency and, where practical, a decision is inappropriate to hedge non-cash ow translational made whether to treat the debt or derivative as a net exposure with cash ow instruments.
However, the investment hedge permitting foreign exchange Group does seek to create a natural hedge through movements on it to be taken to reserves for the its policy of aligning approximately the currency purposes of IAS 39. composition of its core net borrowings with its forecast operating profit.
This policy aims to dampen the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on consolidated interest cover and earnings.
In September 2005 this policy was modied to apply only to currencies that accounted for more than 15% of group operating profit, which currently is only the US dollar.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005
