OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW THE PENNON BOARDS PRIORITY IS THE CREATION OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH ITS STRATEGIC FOCUS ON WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES AND WASTE MANAGEMENT.
CONTENTS Introduction 9 Overview and strategy 9 Dividend policy 12 South West Water regulatory & competitive environment 12 Viridor Waste regulatory & competitive environment 14 Customer supplier relationships 15 Technological changes 15 Key performance indicators KPIs 16 Corporate responsibility 18 Current performance and future development 21 Resources 22 Risks and uncertainties 23 Relationships 27 Financial position 28 Interpretation 35 Glossary 36 8 Pennon Group Plc limitation, those relating to the future business INTRODUCTION prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to the For financial years beginning on or after 1 April 2005, Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occur in directors of quoted companies are required to provide an this OFR, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting Operating and Financial Review OFR in their Annual the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, Reports in accordance with the requirements of the as appropriate.
They involve a number of risks and Companies Act 1985 Operating and Financial Review and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ Directors Report etc.
Whilst Pennon materially from those suggested by the forward looking Group is not required to provide an OFR in this Annual statements.
Such forward looking statements should, Report, it has decided to provide further information about therefore, be considered in light of relevant factors, the Group and its businesses in an OFR format with a view including those set out in the section entitled Risks and to achieving the principal objectives of the OFR which are uncertainties on page 23. to assist investors to assess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY The Accounting Standards Board ASB is the body appointed by the Secretary of State to provide a statement of standard reporting practice which relates to Pennon Group OFRs.
The ASB has only recently produced a reporting standard in relation to OFRs and, whilst the Company has Pennon Group Plc Pennon Group operates and invests in sought to take into account the requirements of the the areas of water and sewerage services and waste reporting standard, the Directors have not drafted this management.
It has assets of 2.7 billion and employs OFR with a view to it being compliant with the reporting around 2,600 people.
It has two main subsidiaries standard.
The Company will produce an OFR in its 2006 South West Water Limited South West Water and Viridor Annual Report which is compliant with the requirements Waste Limited Viridor Waste.
The Boards priority, as set out in its Mission Statement, is Certain terms used throughout this OFR are explained the creation of shareholder value through its strategic defined in the Interpretation section on page 35 and in the focus on water and sewerage services and waste Glossary section on page 36. management.
It aims to be a pre-eminent operator in these business areas to ensure the hallmarks of quality, efficiency and reliability which will help to meet the three Forward looking statements key goals of: This OFR contains forward looking statements regarding Satisfying Customers the financial position, results of operations, cash flows, dividends, financing plans, business strategies, Enhancing the Environment operating efficiencies, capital and other expenditures, Adding value for Shareholders, Employees competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and and the Regional Community.
objectives of management and other matters.
These forward looking statements, including, without Pennon Group Plc 9 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Additional value may be created where South West Water South West Water outperforms Ofwats assumptions by, for example, delivering services at lower operating and or capital South West Water is the licensed water and sewerage costs than Ofwat assumed, and or financing the service provider for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset investment programme at lower costs than Ofwat and Somerset.
It serves a region of nearly 10,300 square assumed.
kilometres with 1.6 million residents and around eight million annual visitors.
It supplies over 455 million litres The successful delivery of a restructuring and continuous of treated water per day through 15,000 kilometres of improvement programme over the K3 regulatory period water mains and then disposes of around 265 million 2000 2005 to significantly reduce overhead and litres of waste water each day via 9,000 kilometres of operating costs, ensured that South West Water public sewers.
outperformed the demanding operational and capital efficiency targets imposed by Ofwat.
In K3, the company also grew its regulatory asset value ahead of the increase The asset base of South West Water comprises: in net debt.
Distribution mains 15,000 kms Viridor Waste Sewers 9,000 kms Impounding reservoirs 16 Viridor Waste is a leading provider of essential waste Water treatment works 39 treatment, recycling and disposal services in the UK.
It has core competencies in landfill disposal and generation Waste water treatment works 614 including works with ultra of electricity from landfill gas.
It has a waste collection violet treatment 52 fleet focusing primarily on the industrial and commercial market and a clinical waste incinerator.
It also operates Combined sewer overflows 1,061 materials recycling facilities, waste transfer stations, civic amenity sites and composting facilities in a number The company has successfully delivered the largest capital of regions in the UK.
programme per capita of any of the privatised water and sewerage companies with a particular focus on improving coastal waste water treatment and disposal.
The region The asset base of Viridor Waste comprises: currently has 143 EU designated bathing waters, almost one third of the total in England and Wales.
Landfill sites operational 20 Landfill sites non-operational South West Water expects to create value through with planning 3 delivering the regulatory contract agreed with Ofwat, the Power generation plants 19 water regulator, the size and content of which is reviewed at five-yearly intervals.
As well as determining outputs, Transport depots 23 Ofwat sets prices, inter-alia, to enable efficient Collection vehicles 270 companies to earn a reasonable rate of return on their Waste transfer stations 18 assets.
In the K4 Determination, which covers the period from April 2005 to March 2010, Ofwat assumed that the Incineration plant 1 equity cost of capital for all companies is 7.7% real after Materials recycling facilities MRF 12 tax with an overall weighted average cost of capital of Glass recycling plants 2 5.1% real after tax.
Ofwats Determination allows for further investment by South West Water to improve the Glass recycling depots 5 quality of water and sewerage services.
This is expected Waste treatment plants 6 to result in the companys regulatory asset value Composting sites 5 increasing from around 1.95 billion in March 2005 to circa 2.6 billion in March 2010, thereby enlarging the Civic amenity sites 43 base on which the return to shareholders is calculated.
10 Pennon Group Plc As a result of the measures taken by the Government to Viridor Wastes main UK operations encourage recycling and comply with the requirements of the EU Landfill Directive, the amount of bio-degradable municipal waste in the UK as a whole going to landfill can Landfill sites operational be expected to decline gradually.
Municipal waste is Landfill sites with planning around one third of Viridor Wastes landfill market.
Transport depots Waste transfer stations However, although there are regional variations, Incineration plant according to the Environment Agencys EA most recent Power generation plants MRF plants estimates, there remains the equivalent of only around Glass recycling plants six years overall consented landfill capacity in the UK as Glass recycling depots Waste treatment plants a whole and new planning permissions are difficult to Composting sites achieve, particularly for green-field sites.
In view of the above, the Directors believe that consented landfill void will remain an increasingly valuable resource.
Viridor Waste is one of the largest landfill site operators in the UK with a total consented landfill capacity of approximately 80 million cubic metres.
The company is at present filling this at a rate of approximately 5 million cubic metres per annum which results in an average remaining life of 16 years at current rates of fill significantly longer than the industry as a whole.
This capacity is located as shown on the map opposite.
Gas produced from decomposing waste on landfilled sites landfill gas is increasingly used to generate electricity.
It is a form of renewable energy and now represents over 25% of the UKs total renewable energy generation.
The Governments strategy is to increase the percentage of electricity generated from renewable sources from the current figure of under 4% to a target of 10% in 2010 and Viridor Wastes strategy is to add value by: 15% in 2015 with an aspiration of 20% in 2020.
To meet this target, the Government has introduced premium capitalising on its strong position in landfill pricing regimes, most recently renewable obligation waste disposal certificates ROCs, to encourage all eligible forms of exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power renewable energy including landfill gas.
This has generation in line with the Governments target of facilitated Viridor Waste in increasing its total generation increasing the proportion of electricity generated capacity to a current 52MW, compared with 28MW in from renewable sources March 2002 prior to the introduction of ROCs.
pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the To take advantage of opportunities presented by the Governments developing waste strategy.
Governments developing waste strategy, Viridor Waste is pursuing composting, civic amenity or household waste Viridor Wastes landfill market consists of municipal, recycling sites HWRS and other recycling opportucommercial and industrial wastes along with contaminities.
These may be combined in integrated waste nated soils and certain other special types of waste.
Landfill is currently the major final disposal route for these wastes.
Pennon Group Plc 11 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW In pursuing its strategy, Viridor Waste seeks to grow its The Appointments impose conditions which Ofwat waste management business, both organically and enforces, along with the appointees principal duties through acquisition.
It has continued to be an active under the Water Industry Act.
An Appointment may be participant in the consolidation of the UK waste market to terminated on 25 years notice by the Secretary of State, date and, since October 2001, has made seven with more immediate revocation in certain specified acquisitions in the waste sector for an aggregate circumstances including, for example, failure to comply consideration of approximately 104 million.
They have with an enforcement order made by Ofwat.
been integrated into the Viridor Waste group.
The most The water industry is also subject to Government recent acquisition was Thames Waste Management direction and legislation in relation to investment Limited from RWE Umwelt AG, details of which are set out requirements and social policy for example the in the Chief Executives Business review.
From a customer As a result of this focused strategy, Viridor Wastes interest perspective, water industry activities are also turnover including landfill tax has grown from 106.1 reviewed by WaterVoice, part of Ofwat, which is being million to 248.3 million over the period 2001 to 2005. replaced by a separate statutory body, the Consumer Its operating profit before amortisation of goodwill has Council for Water.
increased from 13.1 million to 29.8 million, a compound annual growth rate of 22.8%.
This has been Price cap regulation the result of organic growth of the underlying business of around 12% per annum and the beneficial impact of Ofwat regulates water and waste water charges by recent acquisitions.
determining the maximum increase in charges which a company can impose in any year.
The water regulator conducts a Periodic Review and sets price limits every five DIVIDEND POLICY years.
Prices are set by reference to inflation as measured by the index of retail prices RPI plus an adjustment The Group is committed to a progressive dividend policy factor known as K which is specific for each company and under which it expects to increase the dividend payable which can vary for each year of the Review period.
The size to shareholders in real terms each year, barring of a companys K factor which can be positive, negative unforeseen circumstances, at least up to the end of the or zero reflects the scale of its capital investment K4 period in 2010. programme, the cost of capital determined by the water regulator and its operational and environmental A scrip dividend alternative is available to shareholders obligations offset by assumed efficiency improvements enabling them to acquire new shares issued by the required of the company.
Ofwat has instituted a system of Company without incurring dealing costs.
The scrip takecomparative competition and compares South West up has resulted in 876,879 new shares being issued in Waters performance on a wide range of parameters, April 2004 in respect of the 2003 04 interim dividend including efficiency, customer service, and environmental and 2,274,426 shares being issued in October 2004, in performance.
Operating cost comparisons are used by respect of the 2003 04 final dividend.
The total value of Ofwat to determine the level of efficiency improvement the scrip take-up during the year was 22.8 million.
which might be achieved at each Periodic Review.
Other parameters enable Ofwat to compare and publish details on South West Waters customer service performance SOUTH WEST WATER REGULATORY & compared to other water companies.
COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT Companies are incentivised to be efficient both in terms of their operating costs and in the implementation of Licences their capital expenditure programme.
The benefit of any efficiency savings achieved through effective In 1989, the UK Government appointed companies management in excess of those assumed by the water appointees to provide water and waste water services regulator is retained by the companies for a period the Appointments.
Economic regulation pursuant to the generally of five years, after which time the benefit is Appointments is the responsibility of the water passed to customers.
The cost of any underperformance regulator Ofwat.
due to poor management is borne by the companies.
12 Pennon Group Plc Companies are also incentivised to provide a high quality Install 113,000 optional domestic customer water service and penalised if they provide a poor quality meters by 2009 10 service by means of an adjustment to the K factor at the Deliver required drinking water and environmental subsequent Periodic Review.
quality improvements including: renovation of more than 3,200 kms of Unexpected costs or savings arising from changes in water distribution mains certain regulatory assumptions or legal requirements improvements at 14 water treatment works to during a Periodic Review period are recorded by South improve treated tap water West Water and may be in certain circumstances agreed phosphorous removal at nine sewage treatment by Ofwat.
This process, known as logging up and down, works allows prices to be adjusted up or down at the next Periodic Review to compensate for the unexpected work to address 49 unsatisfactory intermittent change.
In addition, in certain circumstances, where the discharges change is material, the company can request, and Ofwat Resolve or mitigate problems identified in the can instigate, a re-setting of its price limits K factors companys plan where overloaded sewers cause during the five-year period, known as an interim flooding inside properties determination of K IDoK.
Maintain access to capital markets to finance delivery of these outputs at a reasonable cost.
The K factors for the period 2005 2010 for South West Water were determined by Ofwat in its Final K4 In setting price limits for South West Water, Ofwat Determination of December 2004 as set out below: assumed the following efficiency improvements: Average annual operating efficiency improvements of Ofwat Final 2.5% water and 2.0% sewerage Determination Year K factor % Capital maintenance efficiency improvements of 5.0% water and 8.7% sewerage 2005 06 12.5............................................................................................................ Capital enhancement efficiency improvements of 5.0% 2006 07 9.8............................................................................................................ water and 16.4% sewerage.
The water industry in the UK is subject to substantial Average 6.9 domestic and EU regulation, placing significant statutory obligations on South West Water with regard to amongst other things, the quality of treated water.
Examples of The K4 Determination provides for total capital relevant EU directives include the Drinking Water expenditure of 762 million 2002 03 prices over the Directive, the Bathing Water Directive and the Urban five year period.
The price limits are intended to enable Waste Water Treatment Directive.
The Water Framework South West Water to: Directive was incorporated in 2003 into UK law and is intended to rationalise EU water legislation providing a Continue to maintain a safe, reliable water supply to framework for the protection of and improvement in the customers and effective treatment and disposal of quality of water resources together with the promotion of sewage, including increasing activity to maintain its sustainable water consumption.
To comply with the Water pipes, sewers and sewage treatment works Framework Directive, member states will have to achieve Implement new odour control measures at priority the challenging target of good status for ground water, sites river water, as well as estuarine and coastal water by the Meet the demands of new and existing customers for a end of 2015. reliable water supply and sewerage service Pennon Group Plc 13 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Environmental regulation for water and waste water in achieves the requirements of the EU Landfill Directive.
England is primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of Subject to some constraints, local authorities can carry State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, together forward or trade under the Landfill Allowance Trading with, among others: Scheme LATS allowances.
Any authority exceeding its allocation without such an allowance faces a penalty of 150 the Environment Agency EA which is responsible for per tonne in addition to the cost of disposing of the waste.
the licensing of water abstraction and the regulation This is expected to result in the introduction of alternative of discharges to controlled waters, including disposal processes at higher cost than current routes.
discharges from waste water treatment works The Government introduced landfill tax as a further the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI which sets and incentive to divert waste from landfill sites.
Landfill tax enforces drinking water quality standards.
applies to all waste disposed at a licensed landfill site, unless the waste is specifically exempt, such as soil from Competition historically contaminated sites.
Landfill tax is chargeable by weight.
For inert waste, landfill tax is chargeable at 2 South West Water is the licensed appointee for the provision per tonne.
A standard rate of 18 per tonne currently of water and sewerage services primarily in Devon, Cornwall applies to all other taxable waste which is due to rise by and small parts of Dorset and Somerset.
As the licensed at least 3 per tonne per annum in the next few years, to undertaker, it has no direct competition for the provision of reach a medium to long term rate of 35 per tonne.
these services to the vast majority of its customers.
The Government is introducing a new regime whereby customers Planning for landfill sites using more than 50Ml per year can contract with alternative suppliers for water supply.
South West Water has only 42 All waste management facilities including the customers in this category, whose aggregate water charges development of new landfill sites and expansion of account for less than 2% of its total turnover.
existing landfill sites are subject to planning permission from the relevant local authority.
Landfill and hazardous VIRIDOR WASTE REGULATORY & waste facilities also require a Pollution, Prevention and Control PPC permit from the EA.
COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT Viridor Waste believes that good environmental The UK is required under the EU Landfill Directive to management is important in winning future planning reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal waste consent.
It has achieved ISO 14001 Environmental going to landfill sites as follows: Management Systems accreditation at all of its key sites.
to 75% of 1995 level by 2010 Planning applications are subject to a rigorous to 50% of 1995 level by 2013 assessment by the local authority who will consider them to 35% of 1995 level by 2020 against the backdrop of the local waste policy development plans that it has compiled for its area.
Municipal waste accounts for only around one third of Applications have to address a wide range of issues, and waste going to landfill in the UK.
the EA is a statutory consultee in this process.
The alternatives to landfill sites for final waste disposal in the UK are currently limited.
In order to meet the Landfill gas power generation requirements of the Landfill Directive, local authorities have been set statutory targets by the Government for the Landfill gas power generation is a form of renewable energy and it is Government policy to increase the recycling of household waste and must also implement proportion of electricity generated from renewable strategies for the diversion of biodegradable municipal sources from just over 4% currently to 10% by 2010 and waste from landfill.
Historically, renewable energy projects Each waste disposal authority has been allocated an were supported by the Government through the Non allowance of the amount of biodegradable waste it may Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO scheme.
Fixed price RPI dispose of to landfill for the years 2005 to 2020.
These indexed contracts with terms of up to 15 years were allowances are designed to ensure that the UK as a whole awarded to the most competitive renewable projects in 14 Pennon Group Plc five tranches of bidding.
Since April 2002, no new operator to undertake upgrades to ensure future contracts have been awarded under the NFFO regime compliance and, where a pollution incident has occurred, which has been replaced by the ROCs regime.
require clean-up action to be undertaken.
The overall price for electricity supplied under ROCs is Waste facilities are also subject to the same regulations currently higher than that achieved under the most as other industries, including health and safety, control of goods hazardous to health and the Working Time recent NFFO scheme to encourage new generation.
In addition, the transport of waste is subject to specific controls.
Integrated waste management contracts and the role of Private Finance Initiatives PFIs CUSTOMER SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS in the waste management industry In order to assist in meeting their landfill diversion The Group recognises that maintaining long-term targets, local authorities are seeking to let integrated relationships with customers and suppliers is key to waste management contracts covering a range of achieving its strategic objectives.
Further details of activities often including HWRS, composting, recycling, supplier relationships are set out in the supplier and waste transfer and bulk transport and final disposal both contractors section of this OFR on page 28. incineration and landfill.
In a number of instances, these will be financed under the PFI regime.
South West Water Under this regime, local authorities apply to the No single customer accounts for more than 1.0% of Government for funding for capital projects which fall turnover.
No supplier revenue accounts for more than within the eligibility criteria.
Successful applicants 2.8% of turnover and South West Water sources all its receive cash funds known as PFI credits, which do not purchases from competitive markets.
have to be repaid and can be used by the local authority to fund a proportion of the capital and operating Viridor Waste expenditures needed for the project.
Local authorities are the largest single customer group Considerable investment potentially as high as 30 accounting in total for 30% of turnover.
No individual billion by 2020 as estimated by the Institution of Civil authority accounts for more than 4%.
Viridor Wastes ROC Engineers is required by the UK to meet municipal landfill contracts account for 5% of turnover.
No supplier accounts for more than 1% of Viridor Wastes Viridor Waste secured and began servicing a 25-year turnover.
The company sources from competitive Recycling and Waste Transfer PFI contract for West Sussex markets.
The contract, designed to deliver a 45% recycling rate by 2015, involves the provision of 14 new or improved recycling and waste handling TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES facilities and is supported by 25 million of PFI credits.
South West Water Viridor Waste recognises that there is a range of risks associated with entering into such contracts, which are South West Water uses a wide range of proven often for a 25-year term.
However, subject to a careful technologies with research work being progressed within assessment of the risks on a contract by contract basis, UK Water Industry Research Ltd UKWIR and other the company will seek to secure such contracts.
Viridor Waste Waste regulation environment The waste industry has not been characterised by rapid EU directives and related UK legislation, as well as technological change.
However, landfill diversion targets planning and licensing, are referred to above.
are encouraging the search for alternative waste The EA and Scottish Environment Protection Agency treatment technologies.
Viridor Waste is actively SEPA monitor performance against permit conditions pursuing new composting and treatment technologies and general environmental law.
Breaches are subject to with Government financial assistance as noted in the prosecutions.
The EA and SEPA can also require the Business review section.
Pennon Group Plc 15 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by the Directors to assess performance against their stated objectives are as follows: Overall Performance Assessment South West Water Overall Performance Assessment OPA has been devised by Ofwat Growth in Regulatory Asset Value as a comparative tool to measure companies performance.
The OPA assigns scores to performance in areas such as customer service and Regulatory Asset Value RAV is the financial base on which Ofwat complaint handling, billing, debt collection, asset serviceability, allows a rate of return and sets prices.
The opening RAV is adjusted environmental compliance and quality of drinking water delivered.
for projected capital and infrastructure renewals expenditure, grants and contributions, infrastructure renewals charge and The data is collated for 12 month periods, part calendar year and current cost depreciation together with the efficiency allowance part financial year and other than assessed customer service, which from the previous regulatory period.
Each component is projected is produced by Ofwat and WaterVoice South West, incorporated in for each year by Ofwat at the Periodic Review.
The RAV is adjusted the June Return to Ofwat.
The final OPA assessment is published as annually for Retail Price Index movements.
At each Determination, part of Ofwats Annual Report on Levels of Service for the Water RAV is restated for outputs under-delivered, the logging-up of new Industry in England and Wales, usually in the autumn.
obligations and the effect of construction price inflation on capital South West Water scored 374 OPA points out of a maximum of 438 and infrastructure expenditure.
A full explanation is given in the in 2003 04 and was tenth out of the 10 water and sewerage Ofwat letter to Regulatory Directors RD07 05, which is available on companies.
However, only 20 points in total separated the bottom the Ofwat website www.
uk five companies and South West Water achieved one of the largest The RAV at 31 March 2005, as published in RD07 05, amounted to performance improvements of any of the water companies during 1.95 billion, indexed to 2004 05 year end prices.
This was because capital expenditure, previously reported RAV for 31 March 2004 was 1.71 billion at 2002 03 year constrained whilst the coastal clean-up was delivered, has now end prices.
The movements include the incorporation of changes in been directed to address other areas.
A further significant construction prices in the K3 period, 81 million, and RPI performance improvement has been achieved in 2004 05. indexation estimated at around 87 million.
OVERALL PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SCORES 400 REGULATORY ASSET VALUE 2000 350 1800 300 1600 250 1400 200 2001 2002 2003 2004 1200 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Financial year ending 31 March Financial year ending 31 March Drinking water compliance The RAVs up to 2003 04 are based upon South West Waters During 2004, South West Water improved its overall compliance estimation of using COPI indexation.
The 2004 05 RAV is the Ofwat with the drinking water quality regulations with 99.95% of its opening position for K4 at 1 April 2005. regulatory tests meeting the required standards.
Operating profit OVERALL WATER QUALITY COMPLIANCE 100 Operating profit is used as a key measure of the performance of South West Water.
The company achieved an operating profit of 99.5 121.7 million in 2004 05, up 2.8 million on 2003 04.
For the five year period 2001 to 2005, operating profit was as follows: 99 98.5 Year ended 31 March 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 m m m m m 98 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 107.3 107.0 111.5 118.9 121.7 Calendar years 16 Pennon Group Plc million OPA points % compliance Viridor Waste Operating profit and profit before taxation PBT Return on equity investment Operating profit and PBT are used as key measures of the Return on equity investment is also used as a key measure of the performance of Viridor Waste.
Data on these is set out in the performance of Viridor Waste and represents profit before taxation Financial position section of the OFR on pages 28 and 29 and set expressed as a percentage on the amount of Pennon Groups equity out in the table below for the five year period 2001 to 2005. investment in Viridor Waste, which amounted to 195.2 million at 31 March 2005.
This is also set out in the table below.
The table also sets out the Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR 22.8% for operating profit and 11.4% for PBT being the rate of growth between 2001 and 2005 expressed as a single average figure over the period.
Year ended 31 March 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 CAGR m m m m m 2001 05 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 13.1 15.2 19.1 22.7 29.8 22.8% Profit before taxation 11.7 13.5 14.2 14.7 18.0 11.4% Return on equity investment after corporate overheads 6.1% 7.1% 7.4% 7.5% 9.2% Consented landfill void Landfill gas electricity generation capacity As at 31 March 2005, Viridor Waste had a consented void capacity Electricity generated is sold to electricity suppliers, usually under of 80 million cubic metres.
This can be reconciled to the disclosed NFFO contracts or under short-term contracts with ROCs.
consented void capacity in last years Annual Report, as follows: As at 31 March 2005, Viridor Waste had 52MW of generating capacity, an increase of 7MW over the 45MW disclosed in the Annual Report last year.
asset management function, which it is anticipated will produce a more efficient approach to its asset investment One of the Groups key objectives is to maintain its and provide improved performance information about reputation for integrity and fair dealing, which it the companys assets.
A major programme of considers is fundamental to the long-term well-being of familiarisation and training has been undertaken for the Group and its key stakeholders.
The Group has a social those directly or indirectly affected by the changes.
The and ethical policy which covers the key areas of finance, reorganisation also enables the company to release a employees, customers and suppliers, community, number of employees on early retirement or voluntary management responsibility and communications.
severance terms to assist with meeting the demanding efficiency targets arising from the K4 Determination.
This The Group also has a Whistleblowing policy which is process will continue throughout K4, with a directly reviewed regularly and supports its approach to ethical employed labour force target of 1,300 by 2010. employment practices by encouraging employees to raise, in accordance with a formalised procedure, Occupational health and safety remain key elements of concerns which relate to potential unlawful conduct, South West Waters assessment of risk management.
financial malpractice, dangers to the public or damage to Following privatisation, the company set out to build an the environment.
occupational health and safety culture in partnership with a number of stakeholders including trade unions, To benchmark its performance, the Group participates in regulators, other water companies and construction the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, the Business in the partners, which has been introduced into all parts of the Communities Environmental Index and is listed in the supply chain.
South West Waters reportable accident rate FTSE4Good Index.
Further details are set out in the of 12.5 accidents per 1,000 employees in 2004 05 Groups annual corporate responsibility report.
compared with 17.5 per 1,000 employees in 2003 04, is a significant improvement, particularly as over the past two years better reporting systems have given rise to more accurate reporting of accidents arising from greater awareness amongst supervisors and managers.
Training in skills acquisition and health and safety continues to FTSE4Good ensure that employees have the knowledge and expertise to undertake their jobs to the best of their ability.
In partnership with other water companies, South West Water leads Clear Water 2010, a national 10 year occupational health programme which has already demonstrated a significant reduction in work related ill health not reflected in other industrial sectors.
Employees Viridor Waste The Directors believe that the strategies set out at the beginning of this OFR depend inter alia on the Viridor Waste is pursuing a number of occupational health businesses ability to attract and retain appropriately and safety initiatives.
Its reportable accident rate per qualified and motivated employees, provide them with a 1,000 employees of 13.2 in 2004 05 14.3 in 2003 04 safe working environment and the necessary training continues to fall and has done so for two consecutive and development to fulfil their roles.
years, comparing favourably with industry averages.
The company has recruited additional health and safety professionals during the year and is also raising the level of training and support available to its staff.
18 Pennon Group Plc A significant challenge to Viridor Waste is the Road Waste water disposal Transport Working Time Directive RTD which will limit Light Goods Vehicle LGV drivers hours.
Consequently, it In 2004, the company improved its compliance with the will be necessary to employ more drivers despite a UKstandards set by the EA.
The percentage population wide shortage.
The company is in discussions with the served by compliant waste water treatment works trade unions to mitigate the impact of the RTD on both improved to 99.0% 98.7% in 2003. the drivers and the company.
Viridor Waste is also For future years the company aims to maintain 99.0% as piloting training programmes with a view to aiding driver a minimum.
This high level of compliance is a major contributor to the region having a significant proportion of the finest The environment bathing waters, beaches and rivers in the UK.
In 2004, 98% of the regions 143 bathing waters achieved EU The Directors believe that sound environmental mandatory standards and 81% the more stringent performance is critical to the success of both South West guideline standards.
The Group has a long established environmental policy, as set out in its annual South West Waters region also has the highest corporate responsibility report.
percentage length of high quality rivers in England.
Both subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation and must comply with the high standards set by the EA to Viridor Waste minimise their impact on the environment.
Both are responsible for the treatment and disposal of societys The most significant positive environmental impacts of waste in a carefully controlled and highly engineered Viridor Wastes operations arise from the safe and manner.
The companies acknowledge the importance of efficient disposal of societys waste materials, increased environmental sustainability and have taken measures to resource and energy efficiency from its recycling and ensure that their operations are undertaken to enhance recovery operations, the generation of renewable energy the environment whenever possible and minimise any from non-fossil fuels and the restoration of despoiled adverse impact.
landscapes such as disused mineral workings through the controlled deposit of waste materials.
Significant The Group is a major generator of renewable energy which negative impacts include transportation and associated supports the Governments objective to reduce emissions, methane production where not harnessed, greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2004 05, the Group leachate production and potential local impacts such as generated 365 GWh, which was the equivalent of 133% of dust, noise, litter and odour.
the Groups total energy consumption.
Viridor Waste operates an environmental management system EMS across all of its operational centres.
35 of South West Water these covering 100 operational facilities are accredited to the formal ISO 14001 standard.
Viridor Waste Water resources developed and introduced its own EMS in the early 1990s In 2004 05, South West Water abstracted 177,279 Ml of recognising the growing importance of measuring and raw water from its 81 licensed abstraction locations monitoring the environmental impact of its operations.
which have a total licensed volume of 384,466 Ml.
The This has allowed targets to be set and met to maximise abstraction locations are either reservoirs, rivers or positive environmental impacts and reduce negative groundwater sources known as aquifers.
This raw water is impacts, thus resulting in continuous improvement in treated to a high standard before being put into supply environmental performance.
Viridor Waste was the first UK waste company to achieve The company continues to invest in its distribution ISO 14001 accreditation across all major operational sites.
It has also played a leading role in developing and network and has consistently met its Ofwat leakage adopting the environmental performance indicators for reduction target of 84Ml d 84 Ml d in 2003 04.
During 2004 05, it rehabilitated almost 570 kms of water mains, the waste industry as promoted by the Green Alliance.
a major increase on the previous year.
Pennon Group Plc 19 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW The amount of waste recycled by the company increased Pennon Charitable Donations 50,000 was given over the year to 780,129 tonnes 454,786 tonnes in during the year primarily to charities operating in 2003 04.
The average size of donation was 500 which can make a significant impact on services provided by organisations.
In addition, Incidents and prosecutions a further 50,000 was donated to the Tsunami appeal.
Whilst from time to time incidents do occur at operational sites, both South West Water and Viridor Waste endeavour South West Water Community Sponsorship to manage their operational activities to minimise the 73,000 was given during the year to a wide occurrence and impact of such incidents.
range of local groups and organisations including employee charity fund raising teams.
South West Water Landfill Tax Credit Scheme LTCS enables Viridor The number of incidents classified by the EA as Category Waste to provide significant funding in areas within 10 Two significant pollution incidents in 2004 05 was miles of a landfill, thereby providing long-term social reduced to four compared with 18 in 2003 04. and environmental benefits to local communities.
During the year, 3.9 million of funds were awarded.
During the year, the company was convicted on 12 occasions for environmental offences and fined a total of Since the inception of the Scheme in 1996, over 42 51,200, compared with 14 convictions and 49,000 in million has been distributed to environmental bodies, fines in 2003 04.
The company has strategies in place to providing essential funding for more than 1,250 reduce incidents which lead to prosecutions.
This process projects ranging from village hall repairs to protecting has been shared with the EA.
Following the recent Government changes to the LTCS, which created a new biodiversity Viridor Waste category qualifying for funding, several showcase projects have been funded including the Avon Wildlife Viridor Waste had no EA Category Two pollution Trusts purchase of Priors Wood, North Somerset and incidents during the year but was convicted for seven founding sponsorship of Manchesters Green Streets offences at one site and fined 42,500.
put in place an action plan to address the issues which gave rise to the prosecutions.
These convictions followed Pennon Environmental Fund Committee the several years without any pollution incident convictions.
Committee was established with the aim of advising Viridor Waste on the application of some landfill tax credits within primarily Devon and Cornwall.
Whilst Social and community issues the recent changes to the LTCS have significantly reduced the amount of funding available 63,000 was The Group believes in supporting the communities in allocated during the year based upon the which it operates.
This is achieved through carefully recommendations of the Committee.
targeted sponsorship and charitable donations to social and community groups, channelled primarily through the The South West Water Special Assistance Fund the following initiatives: Fund was established to provide help to customers endeavouring to pay their water and sewerage bills but who, for reasons of severe financial or personal difficulties, were having problems paying the full amount.
Although South West Water provides administrative support to the Fund, the decisions for applications for help are made by an independent panel.
20 Pennon Group Plc Capital expenditure increased by 1.9% to 141.9 million.
CURRENT PERFORMANCE AND 66.1 million was invested in water supply improvements FUTURE DEVELOPMENT including water mains renovation, water treatment works enhancement and leakage control.
Ofwats latest report Group overview on leakage notes that South West Water continues to be one of the leading companies in managing water leakage In 2004 05 Group turnover rose 17.6% to 554.2 million and is delivering results in line with Ofwats leakage 2003 04 471.3 million.
Before net exceptional items target.
Over 600 kms of water mains were laid, replaced or of 0.1 million comprising 5.0 million now received from refurbished during the year, a major increase on a business disposal in 1998 2003 04 nil less abortive 2003 04.
Drinking water quality is at an all time high and acquisition costs of 1.5 million 2003 04 6.5 million the region features the highest proportion of high quality and 3.4 million restructuring costs in South West Water rivers in England.
2003 04 nil, Group operating profit before goodwill was up by 9.1% to 151.5 million 2003 04 138.8 Waste water investment expenditure totalled 75.8 million, Group profit before tax was up 10.9% to 87.4 million.
Commissioning of the Ilsham Valley pumping million 2003 04 78.8 million and earnings per share station in Torbay commenced in April 2004 and its before deferred tax rose 9.4% to 63.1p 2003 04 57.7p.
operation signalled the completion of the final major Group capital expenditure was 188.4 million 2003 04 project in the companys 15 year original Clean Sweep 170.0 million.
Clean Sweep has transformed the coastal environment around the South West.
98% of bathing waters conform with EU mandatory South West Water standards and 81% of the regions bathing waters now meet the tougher EU guideline standards.
This compares South West Water turnover rose by 18.0 million to 309.8 with only 47% of the regions bathing waters achieving million.
Approved tariff increases amounted to 21.2 the guideline standards six years ago.
Customers switching from unmeasured to metered charging caused a reduction of 6.3 million in turnover.
Other factors contributed a net total of 3.1 million, Viridor Waste including 7,300 new customer connections and increased commercial sales offset by an estimated 2.4 million Viridor Waste has continued to trade strongly, building on reduction in measured demand, as the summer of 2004 did the growth achieved over the past several years.
Turnover not match the high temperatures of the previous year.
Acquisitions accounted for 40.2 million of the South West Waters operating profit rose 2.4% to 121.7 increase and underlying business 25.0 million.
Landfill million before the exceptional item of 3.4 million.
tax within turnover increased by 8.2 million.
Operating costs, including depreciation, increased by 15.2 million to 188.1 million.
Additional costs from Viridor Wastes operating profit before goodwill new capital schemes of 5.7 million, inflation of 4.4 amortisation rose by 31.3% to 29.8 million 26.3 million and other cost increases of 9.2 million mainly million after goodwill amortisation, compared with pensions, direct cost of sales and bad debts, were offset 22.7 million 20.2 million after goodwill amortisation by 4.1 million of efficiency savings.
The increase was driven by good performance South West Water established a restructuring and from landfill, power generation and collection businesses continuous improvement programme to reduce and the positive impact of the West Sussex integrated significantly overhead and operating costs.
Its successful waste contract together with the Thames Waste delivery ensured that it outperformed the demanding Management acquisition.
Since 2000 01, operating operational and capital efficiency targets imposed by profit before goodwill has grown at a compound rate of Ofwat for the K3 regulatory period 2000 2005.
South 22.8% per annum, of which around 12% has been organic West Water has announced plans for further restructuring with the rest being achieved through acquisitions.
to contribute towards the additional efficiencies required Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and over the K4 period 2005 2010, including a 13 amortisation EBITDA grew from 43.2 million to 56.0 million per annum reduction in base operating costs by million.
Capital expenditure for the year was 45.8 2010.
An exceptional charge of 3.4 million has been million 2003 04 30.5 million.
made in respect of the associated restructuring costs.
Pennon Group Plc 21 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Total landfill disposal volumes increased by 10% to 4.0 Future prospects for the landfill gas generation business million tonnes, due mainly to the Thames Waste depend significantly on Government policy for renewable acquisition.
Volumes on a like for like basis rose by 2%.
The ROCs system is the Governments Total gate fees per tonne rose by 10%.
main policy measure to encourage the development of electricity generation using renewable energy sources Viridor Wastes total power generation capacity has such as landfill gas.
During 2005, the Government is increased by a further 16% in the year, most of which has carrying out a review of the ROCs system.
It has stated been introduced under ROCs and underpins the strong that this review will not affect existing accredited profit growth achieved.
56% of Viridor Wastes output schemes.
Trends and factors likely to impact RESOURCES future prospects South West Water South West Water Human resources The key factor affecting South West Waters performance over the next few years is the K4 Determination South West Water has an experienced management team concluded in December 2004.
As noted on page 12, this and utilises remuneration and incentive policies focusing sets price limits for the next five years and determines the on financial and operational targets.
The company has investment outputs to be delivered by South West Water invested significant sums over many years to ensure that over this period.
its staff have the skills and competencies to undertake their roles.
NVQ training for operators and craftsmen is South West Water is confident that it can deliver the carried out to ensure that basic skills are in place and efficiency improvements assumed over this period and health and safety requirements are met.
Office-based deliver the required investment programme.
staff are offered a range of training including assistance to obtain professional qualifications.
Managers are Prospects beyond 2010 depend primarily on the next encouraged to extend their knowledge and skills through Periodic Review and subsequent price Determination.
participation in company-wide programmes as well as This is expected to take account of further investment bespoke external courses.
All training activity is requirements flowing from EU directives and other undertaken under the Investor in People standard and is legislation and the continuing need to maintain the closely aligned with business requirements.
serviceability of the existing asset base and set further regulatory driven efficiency targets.
The company uses financial incentivisation arrangements as appropriate to each group of workers and job Viridor Waste satisfaction is supported by encouraging role changes wherever possible around the company to help Consented landfill capacity is expected to continue to rise employees gain broad experience of business activities.
in value due to rising costs caused by planning restrictions, tightening regulation and the demand for higher Staff turnover is well below the national average.
The availability of permitted landfill void is company as a good employer has been introducing a limited.
According to the EAs most recent estimate, there number of Family Friendly policies, which exceed is around six years consented capacity in the UK.
External recruitment is proving to be more difficult in a national climate of high At the same time the implementation of the Landfill Directive via LATS and other regulations, the continued employment and increased competition for staff locally roll-out of the Pollution Prevention and Control PPC from new organisations in the region.
Regular permitting regime, the Governments National Waste benchmarking of salary levels is carried out and the Strategy currently under review and landfill tax increases additional benefits of working for the company compared are all likely to encourage diversion of waste streams away to others are emphasised.
Work is also to be undertaken from landfill towards treatment and recycling, where to further facilitate recruitment through the companys available.
This will mostly affect municipal waste, which is website.
approximately one third of the current landfill market.
22 Pennon Group Plc Water resource position RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES South West Water on a five year basis prepares a Water Risk factors relating to the Group Resources Plan for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
The Plan indicates that no new reservoirs are It may not be possible to continue to sustain the required before 2030 but investment is needed to same level of earnings and growth of the Group as in develop the overall trunk main infrastructure, to expand the past treatment capacity and to enhance certain pumped storage facilities.
There is a risk to shareholder value if the Group is not able to continue to grow its key businesses and continue to At 27 March 2005, reservoir storage levels were 80.8% produce sustainable earnings growth.
Successfully compared to 83.4% at 27 March 2004. achieving these objectives is dependent upon the correct strategy being pursued by strong and able management Systems within the Group as well as on external factors.
The Group has maintained earnings and has successfully grown both South West Water relies on a range of sophisticated South West Water and Viridor Waste and intends to financial, asset management and operational systems.
continue to create shareholder value through its They are upgraded and renewed as necessary to ensure strategic focus on water and sewerage services and waste reliability, efficiency and operational effectiveness.
In particular, the Board has confidence Back-up and standby arrangements are in place in the that South West Water will successfully deliver the new K4 event of damage, failure or other disruption.
regulatory contract and significantly grow its regulatory asset value to 2010, whilst Viridor Wastes successful Viridor Waste strategy of creating long-term sustainable profit growth is expected to continue through capitalising on its Human resources landfill asset base, exploiting its landfill gas power generation potential and pursuing profitable The company employs a comprehensive range of opportunities in line with the Governments developing technical and professional managerial personnel, waste strategy.
supervisory, administrative and clerical, semi-skilled and unskilled.
Many are vocationally trained and have Risk factors relating to the Groups water extensive operational experience.
Membership of and waste water business relevant trade and professional bodies is widespread and is encouraged.
Price controls over the turnover of the Groups regulated business could adversely affect profitability Industry reputation expertise Ofwats price Determination may adversely affect South Viridor Waste is an active member of the Environmental West Water for a number of reasons including an Services Association, the leading trade body and senior inadequate cost of capital allowance.
There is also a risk staff are involved in leading positions on industry that regulatory assumptions concerning operating committees providing Government departments with expenses, required capital expenditure and revenue economic and technical information.
forecasts may prove to be unrealistic.
However, South West Water has a track record of meeting Ofwats The company has a good track record in gaining planning expectations in the last two Periodic Review periods K2 consents and PPC permits for landfill capacity and waste and K3 and expects to be able to meet the expectations of management facilities.
the latest Determination for the K4 period 2005 2010.
As one of the fastest growing and strongest performing The outcome of future Periodic Review processes post businesses in the waste industry in recent years, Viridor 2010 will affect the Groups turnover and profitability.
Wastes record of business and environmental performance, service delivery and regulatory compliance is strong.
Pennon Group Plc 23 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Failure to deliver the capital investment programme Environmental regulations and quality standards could adversely affect profitability could increase the Groups costs and adversely affect profitability South West Water requires significant capital expenditure Various environmental and consumer protection, health for additions to and replacement of plant and equipment and safety laws and regulations govern the companys for its water distribution and waste water facilities and waste water and water distribution businesses.
The price limits set by Ofwat for the K4 period and regulations establish, amongst other things, quality take into account the level of capital expenditure expected standards for drinking water, effluent treatment including to be incurred and the associated funding costs.
In the sewage sludge disposal and discharges into the environevent of under-performance, the water regulator could ment which affect South West Waters operations.
In intervene to re-set price limits at lower levels.
addition, South West Water is required to obtain various environmental permissions from regulatory agencies for its The company may be unable to raise sufficient funds operations.
South West Water endeavours to comply with all to finance its functions regulatory standards but cannot guarantee that it will be in total compliance at all times with these laws and regulations.
Historically, the Group has financed expenditure from cash flows from operations and from debt financing.
In setting Environmental laws and regulations are complex and price limits, the water regulator has a duty to ensure that a change frequently.
These laws, and their enforcement, company can finance its functions.
Whilst there can be no have tended to become more stringent over time.
Whilst assurance that cash flows from operations will not decline South West Water has budgeted for future capital and or that additional debt financing or other sources of capital operating expenditures to achieve compliance with current would be available to meet these requirements, the and known future changes in law and regulations, it is Groups policy is to ensure that it has committed facilities possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed available for at least 12 months anticipated net cash that will raise South West Waters capital and operating expenditures by requiring modifications to its assets.
also possible that future legislation will impose constraints If South West Water is unable to secure the anticipated on existing water abstractions requiring South West Water capital efficiencies associated with the capital programme, to source alternative water supplies.
These costs are or the programme falls behind schedule for other reasons, recoverable in part or in whole through the regulatory the profitability of the Group may suffer.
The water process of setting appropriate future price limits.
In the regulator may factor such failure into future price reviews.
event of these being significant, South West Water could apply to Ofwat for a revision of its price limits through an In addition, the Groups ability to meet regulatory and Interim Determination of K IDoK.
environmental performance standards could be adversely affected by the failure to deliver the capital programme on Contamination to water supplies could adversely time.
This could result in the potential for fines or other affect profitability sanctions imposed by either the water regulator or the courts including loss of South West Waters Licence.
The Water supplies may be subject to contamination, including company has a track record of delivering its capital contamination from naturally occurring compounds and programme in accordance with regulatory requirements.
pollution resulting from man-made sources.
In the event that one or more of the companys water supplies is Failure to deliver operating cost savings implicit contaminated and it is unable to substitute a water supply in the regulatory review could adversely affect from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately profitability treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on its reputation, Operating cost savings to be achieved during the current operating results and financial position.
Some or all of K4 period are implicit in the regulatory review.
In line with these costs may be recoverable through future price South West Waters track record, the Board remains reviews.
South West Water could also be held liable for confident of delivering the assumed operating cost human exposure to hazardous substances in its water savings.
However, should operational performance supplies or other environmental damage.
The Group deteriorate, the Groups profitability could suffer and the maintains insurance policies in relation to these risks, water regulator could seek to impose higher efficiency although there can be no assurance that all or any of the targets as part of future price reviews.
costs associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage will continue to be available in the future.
24 Pennon Group Plc Non-recovery of customer debt could adversely Current rates of customers opting to change, align with the affect profitability estimates made at the last Review which allows for some 65% of customers to pay by measured charges by 2010, The company is responsible for the billing, cash collection compared with around 48% of such customers with meters and debt management activities for around 760,000 at 31 March 2005.
However, it is possible that a higher domestic and business water and waste water customers.
proportion of customers could switch to a measured supply The Water Industry Act 1997 prohibits the disconnection of than allowed for and this could have an adverse impact on a domestic water supply for non-payment.
Non-recovery of the companys revenues.
As referred to in the price cap debt is therefore a risk to the Group and may cause the regulation section on page 12, an IDoK may be used to at Groups profitability to suffer, although allowance is made least partially recover any revenue losses if they exceed the by the water regulator in the Determination for his estimate prescribed materiality threshold.
of debt deemed to be irrecoverable.
In addition to existing strategies, South West Water is implementing new Risk factors relating to the waste initiatives to improve and secure cash collection, including management business the use of charging orders.
However, there can be no assurance that the the amount allowed by the water Increases in landfill costs may not be recovered regulator is adequate.
Provision was made in the last through price increases Periodic Review for companies to make an application for an Interim Determination of prices in the event of a significant The raising of environmental standards is leading to a shortfall.
gradual increase in landfill costs in general.
Particular areas of cost increases include site engineering which results in Other potential liabilities risks increased depreciation, leachate management, landfill gas management and general site management.
Companies A failure of the equipment operated by South West Water such as Viridor Waste with landfills engineered to modern could lead to the escape of water or waste water including standards and who have good environmental control sewage effluent and result in damage to third party systems, should incur lower than average increases in costs.
In such circumstances, South However, there remains a risk that rising standards may West Water may incur liability to those third parties.
South generate higher treatment and disposal costs than West Water could also be prosecuted by the EA and or be currently assumed.
required to undertake costly upgrades.
Municipal waste contracts typically last for a number of A water shortage due to a severe drought could reduce the years: they usually have price increases under formulae water supply available to customers, which could have a related to inflation as measured by the retail price index in material impact on the profitability of South West Water.
the UK RPI and in some cases take into account specific The company does have in place a number of schemes to legislative or technical changes.
Prices for other types of maintain water resources such as pumped storage for waste depend more on local markets and competitive certain reservoirs and has a number of water conservation conditions.
Viridor Wastes experience over several years is measures which are applied on an ongoing basis.
that prices in general have risen at least fast enough to cover cost increases in the areas where it operates.
There is Meter option take-up a risk that landfill prices may not rise sufficiently in all Higher than national average water charges within the locations to recover recent and projected cost increases.
South West Water area have encouraged many customers to change from an unmeasured rateable value based charging Not all landfills may meet the standards of the system to a payment based on volume of water used as Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC measured by a meter.
Properties constructed since 1989 do Directive and the Landfill Directive, or requirements not have a rateable value assessment and are therefore only may be imposed which would impact on the charged by the volume of water used.
Most customers in economics of landfill properties built prior to 1989 can choose to opt for meter charges.
In doing so they have an option to switch back to Landfills and other industrial processes in the UK are rateable value payment within 12 months of meter subject to a new permitting regime pursuant to the installation.
The rate at which customers elect to switch to Pollution Prevention and Control England and Wales volume payment is estimated at each Periodic Review.
Existing landfills Pennon Group Plc 25 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW opened before July 2001 operate under waste Assuming the EU Landfill Directive targets are met, the management licences.
In the future, they and landfills total amount of BMW permitted to be landfilled from opened since July 2001 will require a PPC permit granted 2020 will be around 10 million tonnes per annum under the PPC regulations.
The replacement of waste depending on the precise interpretation of the management licences with PPC permits is occurring in a Directive.
If there is no change in other waste streams, series of application tranches due to run through to this would still leave a substantial landfill market in 2007.
PPC permits are expected to impose higher 2020.
This should be seen in the context of an EA standards and costs in general.
At the same time, it is estimate of a current consented landfill capacity UK-wide possible that some current landfills may fail to obtain a of around six years.
PPC permit and will therefore have to seek to agree a closure plan with the EA or SEPA.
Whilst to date Viridor Waste has seen its landfill volumes slowly increasing, the combined effect of the various The net result of this is that after a transitional period, it Government measures may reduce waste to landfill in the is expected that the average technical and operational future.
standards of landfill in the UK will improve and it is possible that the number of landfills may decrease.
Pricing and other risks relating to renewable energy Viridor Waste believes that its own key landfills are Without a pricing mechanism such as ROCs as identified generally well placed to obtain PPC permits.
However, it is on page 14, further investment in renewables would not not possible to prejudge the EAs or SEPAs decision on generally be economic.
The Government has made a this and it is possible that some sites may not achieve strong commitment to renewables which are key to permits or that more onerous conditions may be imposed meeting the long-term carbon reduction strategy set out by those permits.
Were a landfill not to achieve the in the energy white paper and the UKs 2010 targets for necessary permits it would have to cease operation with carbon dioxide reductions under the Kyoto Protocol.
Renewables are also important in minimising the UKs increasing reliance on imported energy.
Nevertheless, Under both waste management licences and PPC Permits, there remains a risk that the Government may change the landfills require expenditure on restoration when the site current regime.
The Government is currently undertaking is closed and subsequently on aftercare maintenance, a review of the ROCs.
It has stated that current schemes supervision, monitoring and management of gas and which benefit from ROCs will not cease to be eligible.
It is leachate levels long after the landfilling activities have recognised that the recent expansion in landfill gas ceased.
The EA or SEPA will only grant a full or partial PPC generation would not have taken place without such permit or waste management licence surrender once it is subsidy.
However, it is consulting on whether new landfill satisfied that the landfill is inert and no longer poses any gas schemes, after a transitional period, should have environmental risk.
There may still be a risk of liability reduced eligibility.
arising from any residual contamination following the surrender of the PPC permit.
Landfill licences or permits The value of ROCs is increased by the sharing of the buycannot be surrendered during the aftercare period.
out price monies among holders of ROCs and is therefore dependent on the financial strength of those suppliers The UK Governments waste strategy including who opt to pay the buy-out price.
There is a risk that the municipal landfill diversion targets and increases insolvency of a licensed electricity supplier could lead to in landfill tax stemming from the Landfill Directive, a drop in the value of the ROCs which Viridor Waste sells may lead to a reduction in volumes of waste being to licensed suppliers.
disposed of via landfill A landfill gas project must be able to collect and burn Viridor Waste focuses on the disposal of municipal, sufficient gas to produce electricity.
Ultimately, the industrial and commercial, construction and demolition volume of gas generated will depend on the amount and waste.
Of this, around one third 26 million tonnes of the composition of the waste landfilled.
For example, if the UK total for these waste streams is municipal of which amount of BMW diverted away from landfill is increased in approximately two thirds is biodegradable municipal the future in accordance with the EU Landfill Directive waste BMW.
These figures are based on estimates from obligations, the total biodegradable component of the DEFRA, the EA, SEPA and HM Revenue & Customs.
waste going to landfill will affect volumes of landfill gas 26 Pennon Group Plc produced.
It is therefore possible that the gas obtained The future costs of defined benefit schemes are subject to will not be available either in the amounts or of the a number of factors including: calorific value required to make a project cost effective.
The returns achieved on pension fund investments The current planning regime may restrict the Movements in interest rates and inflation availability of future waste treatment facilities Pensioner longevity.
Achievement of the Governments targets for waste Insurance management is critically dependent on the planning system delivering sufficient waste treatment facilities.
The Group manages property and third party risks by the Obtaining planning permission for any type of waste purchase of insurance policies from the insurance treatment facility is difficult and will represent a major market.
The Groups insurance brokers assist in sourcing challenge for the waste management industry.
appropriate insurance cover from insurance companies that have good credit ratings.
Main insurance policies Viridor Waste may be unable to recruit retain cover property, business interruption, public liability, adequate numbers of staff with the necessary skills environmental pollution and employers liability.
There are three tiers of insurance for most policies.
The first tier Good quality staff with the required technical skills and is self-insurance in the form of a moderate deductible.
certification are essential in the waste industry.
Viridor The second tier is covered by the Groups subsidiary, Waste recognises that there is a risk of losing staff to Peninsula Insurance Limited PIL.
PIL insures the layer competitors and seeks to address this by its employment of risk between the deductible and the cover provided by policies.
The third tier of risk is placed with the external insurance market.
Other Group risks Pensions costs may increase due to factors outside RELATIONSHIPS the Groups control The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme for South West Water existing staff of, and new entrants to, Pennon and South West Water and for certain employees of Viridor Waste.
Regulatory relationships Pennon Group set up a defined contribution scheme in July 2003 for new entrants to Viridor Waste and South West Water views relationships with regulators, employees from certain acquired waste companies.
Government, customer representative bodies and its customers as central to its operations.
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Group defined benefit schemes at 1 April 2004 indicated a scheme South West Water maintains a continuing dialogue with deficit which resulted in additional annual costs of Ofwat, the EA and DWI in addition to making the around 5.5 million under the SSAP 24 accounting policy.
prescribed reports of data and activity.
It also inputs into national dialogue on developing issues through its Under Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement representation at Water UK, the industry trade body.
Benefits, the Group pension schemes had net liabilities at 31 March 2005 of 55.7 million, a similar level to that South West Water works with WaterVoice South West and reported under FRS 17 at 31 March 2004.
A sound will work with its successor, the Consumer Council for investment performance has been offset by an increase in Water, to ensure that customer issues and concerns are liabilities as reflected in the recent actuarial valuation.
addressed and a full understanding of the companys The net liabilities represent circa 4.5% of the Groups activities is maintained.
South West Water adopts a total market capitalisation as at 31 March 2005. proactive policy of informing its customers through its customer newspaper, Waterlevel, and through regular press releases and media briefings.
Pennon Group Plc 27 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW David Dupont Group Director of Finance Pennon Group Plc Suppliers and contractors Viridor Waste South West Waters procurement strategy is focused on the All waste management facilities require planning pro-active management of around 50 key and strategic permission, whilst landfill and certain other facilities suppliers who account for the large majority of expenditure.
also require a waste management licence or a PPC permit, Regular meetings are held to manage performance and to issued and enforced by the EA.
Viridor Waste maintains a identify and deliver continuous improvement opporpositive working relationship with the EA, proactively tunities for further reducing cost while improving liaising on and managing issues at both a site-specific performance and service levels.
This includes some eight and strategic level.
Likewise, with regard to obtaining strategic partners responsible for significant areas of planning consents for new or extended facilities, Viridor outsourced services including capital delivery, water Waste proactively consults and openly communicates distribution, sewer management and customer service.
with local communities and other key stakeholders Management of these strategic partners is co-ordinated by throughout the planning application process in order to the Contract Strategy Group including key members of South respond to concerns and to maximise the chances of West Waters Executive Management Team.
South West Water has robust pre-qualification and tender A good neighbour attitude exists at all facilities procedures included within the Companys ISO 9001 managed by Viridor Waste with local liaison groups Quality Management system delivering best practice and consisting of locally elected representatives of the ensuring compliance with EU procurement regulations.
community meeting regularly to be consulted about the Qualification and tender processes take full account of companys plans and operating procedures.
Liaison environmental, social and ethical factors providing a groups also include representatives of the EA and the comprehensive approach to the management of relevant planning authority.
corporate responsibility through the supply chain.
Supplier forums FINANCIAL POSITION Engagement of suppliers is the challenge faced by South Analysis of the Groups financial position West Water, arising from the Periodic Review process.
It is reinforced through supplier forums where repreThe Groups financial results showed growth in both sentatives of supplier organisations are invited to a turnover and profit before tax from continuing operations.
sharing of details related to the size, shape and nature of the future capital investment programme.
Turnover and operating profit Financiers Turnover rose by 17.6% to 554.2 million.
South West Water turnover was 309.8 million, up 6.2% on 2003 04, South West Water is financed from a number of sources.
principally resulting from the additional increase in These include relationship banks who have provided tariffs approved by the water regulator.
Turnover for long-term finance lease facilities and also provide Viridor Waste at 248.3 million was 35.6% up on shorter-term facilities for periods of up to five years.
The acquisitions accounted for 40.2 million of further important source of low cost medium to long-term the increase and underlying business 25.0 million.
funding is the European Investment Bank EIB.
The EIB Landfill tax within turnover increased by 8.2 million.
is able to lend proportionately more to South West Water because Cornwall is regarded by the EIB and EU as Group operating profit before the exceptional items having particular economic difficulties due to high increased by 11.7 million.
South West Water achieved a unemployment and low income.
The EIB has recently 121.7 million operating profit, up 2.8 million on agreed to extend a further 70 million of funding for the 2003 04.
Viridor Waste contributed 26.3 million after K4 period.
goodwill amortisation of 3.5 million, up 6.1 million on 2003 04 and representing 18.4% of the operating profit of the Group in 2004 05 2003 04 15.6%.
28 Pennon Group Plc There were three exceptional items during the year: Finance costs Costs of 1.5 million 2003 04 6.5 million relating Net interest payable was 60.7 million 2003 04 57.2 to the abortive acquisition of the UK landfill and million, which was 2.4 times covered by Group operating landfill gas operations of Shanks Group Plc where profits in both years.
discussions were terminated on 25 May 2004.
Gross interest payable was 74.0 million.
Gross interest Restructuring costs in South West Water of receivable of 13.3 million was derived from the 3.4 million 2003 04 nil.
investment of temporarily surplus funds.
Profit of 5.0 million 2003 04 nil relating to the Net interest payable represents a rate of 5.5% when balance of proceeds due from the 1998 disposal of the measured against average net debt 2003 04 5.5%.
Groups interest in Societa Italo Britannica dellAcqua Srl SIBA.
Profit before tax Group earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation Profit before tax was 87.4 million before the exceptional and goodwill amortisation EBITDA amounted to 243.9 items, 8.6 million up on 2003 04, an increase of 10.9%.
million before the exceptional items 2003 04 222.0 million including South West Water 187.8 million Viridor Waste achieved a pre-tax return on investment in 2003 04 181.7 million and Viridor Waste 56.0 2004 05 of 9.2% 2003 04 7.5%.
Taxation Total Group operating costs were 406.2 million excluding the exceptional items, 2003 04 335.0 The corporation taxation charge for the year was 18.7 million and included the following major categories of million 2003 04 10.8 million.
The deferred tax charge expenditure: for the year was 10.8 million 2003 04 3.3 million.
Earnings per share m Earnings per share before deferred tax and the exceptional items increased by 9.4% to 63.1p.
Basic Depreciation and goodwill amortisation 98.6 earnings per share increased 9.6% to 54.6p.
Manpower 73.1 Landfill tax 56.7 Dividends and retained earnings Raw materials and consumables 18.6 Property costs 17.1 The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 29.2p per share for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Transport 15.7 Together with the interim dividend of 13.8p per share Power 10.3 paid on 7 April 2005, this makes a total dividend for the Abstraction and discharge consent costs 7.4 year of 43.0p per share, an increase of 4.9% on the Statutory operating licences and royalties 6.9 dividend for 2003 04.
Lease rentals plant and machinery 4.8 The dividend of 43.0p per share results in a dividend cover of 1.4 times.
Offsetting the above power costs was revenue from power The total cost of the interim dividend and recommended generation of 17.6 million.
final dividend of the Company is 55.1 million.
The retained surplus of 13.7 million has been transferred to reserves.
Pennon Group Plc 29 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW International Financial Reporting Standards Payments to suppliers Preparation for the adoption of International Financial It is the Groups payment policy for the year ending 31 Reporting Standards IFRS in 2005 06 is under way.
The March 2006 to follow the Code of The Better Payment principal differences between current UK and Practice Group on supplier payments.
Information about International Accounting Standards likely to impact on the Code can be obtained from www.
co. uk the Group are detailed on pages 86 to 88.
The overall net The Company will agree payment terms with individual impact will be to reduce Group reported net assets.
The suppliers in advance and abide by such terms.
The ratio, adoption of IFRS and the reduction in reported net assets expressed in days, between the amount invoiced to the do not affect current dividend policy, compliance with Company by its suppliers during 2004 05 and the amount debt covenants, or underlying cash flow.
owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2005, was 30 days.
Investment Share capital Capital expenditure by the Group on tangible fixed assets During the year, the nominal value of the Companys was 188.4 million 2003 04 170.0 million.
The major issued ordinary share capital increased from 137.9 categories of expenditure comprised: million to 142.0 million.
The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year was 126.0 million South West Water 2003 04 123.5 million.
The value of net assets per share at book value at 31 March 2005 was 733p.
m Water mains renovation 34.8 Permission was obtained from shareholders at the Annual Water supply leakage control 7.9 General Meeting in July 2004 to purchase up to 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital.
Renewal of the Water treatment works 3.7 authority will be sought at the July 2005 Annual General Sewage treatment works 42.8 Meeting.
Sewerage 25.0 Sewage sludge treatment 2.2 Accounting policies critical to understanding the performance and financial position Viridor Waste Pennon Groups Principal Accounting Policies are set out on pages 54 to 56.
To apply certain of these policies, m management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported profit, assets and Landfill 21.7 liabilities.
Actual outcomes could differ from those Power generation 3.8 calculated based on estimates or assumptions.
Collection 2.8 Pennon Group believes that the accounting policies outlined below are the critical policies where changes in Other expenditure included investment in information the estimates and assumptions made could have a systems, metering and transport.
significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of the Directors, the current market value of land and buildings is not significantly different from Landfill costs the holding cost shown in the financial statements.
The estimation of landfill reserves is of particular importance in assessing landfill costs, since the cost of a landfill site is depreciated over its estimated operational life taking into account the usage of void space.
The 30 Pennon Group Plc Groups estimates of landfill reserves are regularly Accounting for provisions and contingencies reviewed and updated during the financial year for usage and other events for example site extensions.
Estimates The Group is subject to a number of claims incidental to are also subject to physical review by external advisors.
A the normal course of its business, relating to and number of factors impact on the value of landfill reserves, including commercial, contractual and employment including the available landfill space, future capital matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary expenditure and operating costs.
The valuation is subject course of business.
The Group routinely assesses the to revision as these factors change.
likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as ranges of probable estimated losses.
Carrying value of long-life assets Reasonable estimates involve judgments made by management after considering information including The Groups accounting policy for tangible fixed assets is notifications, settlements, estimates performed by detailed in note 1 f of the consolidated financial independent parties and outside counsel, available facts, statements.
The carrying value of tangible fixed assets as identification of other potentially responsible parties and at 31 March 2005 was 2,248 million.
In the year ended their ability to contribute and prior experience.
A 31 March 2005, additions to tangible fixed assets totalled provision is recognised when it is probable that an 188 million and the depreciation charge was 96 obligation exists for which a reliable estimate can be million.
The estimated useful economic lives of fixed made after careful analysis of the individual matter.
The assets are based on managements judgement and required provision may change in the future due to new experience.
When management identifies that actual developments and as additional information becomes useful lives differ materially from the estimates used to available.
Matters that are either possible obligations or calculate depreciation, that charge is adjusted do not meet the recognition criteria for a provision are prospectively.
Due to the significance of fixed asset disclosed, unless the possibility of transferring economic investment to the Group, variations between actual and benefits is remote.
estimated useful lives could impact operating results both positively and negatively.
Historically, few changes Depreciation to estimated useful lives have been required.
Fixed assets excluding landfill sites are depreciated using Revenue recognition the straight-line method.
The cost of a landfill site is depreciated over its estimated operational life taking The Group recognises revenue generally at the time of into account the usage of void space.
Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are recorded as deferred revenue.
Renewals accounting In South West Waters case, the Group raises bills and The depreciation charge for infrastructure assets is the recognises revenue in accordance with its entitlement to estimated level of annual expenditure to maintain the receive revenue in line with the limits established by the operating capability of the network which is based on Periodic Review price setting process.
For water and South West Waters Asset Management Plan which has waste water customers with water meters, income been certified by W S Atkins Limited, an independent recognised is dependent upon the volume supplied infrastructure management consultant approved by including an estimate of the sales value of units supplied Ofwat.
Variations between actual infrastructure spend between the date of the last meter reading and the year and estimated spend are included in the balance sheet, end.
Estimated usage is based on historic data, with the principle being to equalise the effect of annual judgement and assumptions: actual results could differ spend variations on the charge to the profit and loss from these estimates which would result in operating account.
Changes in the plan assumptions including revenue being adjusted in the period that the revision to judgements relating to the condition and performance of the estimates is determined.
infrastructure assets could give rise to a different operating profit.
Pennon Group Plc 31 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Restoration and aftercare maturity dates to those of the deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The Group uses long-term UK gilt rates to Restoration and aftercare provisions are recognised in reflect the long-life nature of infrastructure and the financial statements at the net present value of the operational assets.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as future expenditure required to settle the Groups recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is regarded as more likely restoration and aftercare obligations.
The discount than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from implicit in recognising the restoration and aftercare which the future reversal of the underlying timing liability is unwound over the life of the provision and is differences can be deducted.
Changes to managements included in the profit and loss account as a financial item view of the recoverability of deferred tax assets could give within the net interest charge.
Where a provision gives rise to different tax charges.
access to future economic benefits, an asset is recognised and depreciated in accordance with the Groups Provision for doubtful debts depreciation policy.
At each balance sheet date, each subsidiary evaluates the The measurement of restoration and aftercare provisions collectability of trade debtors and records provisions for involves the use of estimates and assumptions such as the doubtful debts based on experience.
For example, discount rate used to determine the net present value of comparisons of the relative age of accounts and the liability.
The estimated cost of restoration and consideration of actual write-off history.
The actual level aftercare is based on engineering estimates and reports of debt collected may differ from the estimated levels of from independent advisors.
In addition, the payment recovery, which could impact operating results positively dates of expected restoration and aftercare costs are or negatively.
As at 31 March 2005, the Groups gross uncertain and are based on economic assumptions trade debtors were 88 million.
surrounding the useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
Goodwill Impairments The Group records all assets and liabilities acquired in business acquisitions, including goodwill, at fair value.
The Group reviews its assets for impairment if there is an Goodwill is amortised by equal annual instalments over indication that the carrying amount may not be the estimated useful life of 20 years.
Impairment reviews compare the carrying for impairment whenever events or circumstances might value of an income generating unit with its recoverable indicate that it may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the net net book value of goodwill was 63.0 million and the realisable value and the estimated value in use.
Value in amortisation charge for the year then ended was 3.5 use is based on the net present value of expected future million.
The initial goodwill recorded and subsequent pre-tax cash flows.
Impairment reviews may cover all impairment analyses require management to make operating segments.
subjective judgements concerning the fair value of reporting units.
Long-term assumptions are used to determine the net present value of future cash flows for use in impairment Pensions reviews.
Particular assumptions which impact the calculations are discount rates and the terminal value of The Group operates defined benefit schemes plus a assets and income streams.
Actuarial valuations of the schemes are carried out as determined by the trustees at Deferred tax intervals of not more than three years.
The Group accounts for deferred tax on a discounted The pension cost under SSAP 24 is assessed in accordance basis, as permitted by UK GAAP.
The deferred tax with the advice of an independent qualified actuary based provision as at 31 March 2005 was 72.4 million.
The on the latest actuarial valuation and assumptions balance sheet provision is discounted using the rate of determined by the actuary.
The assumptions are based on interest at the balance sheet date on UK gilts with similar information supplied to the actuary by the Company, 32 Pennon Group Plc supplemented by discussions between the actuary and Treasury policies and objectives management.
The assumptions are disclosed in note 33 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups treasury function seeks to ensure that sufficient funding is available to meet foreseeable needs, maintains reasonable headroom for contingencies and Capital structure manages interest rate risk.
It operates within policies Overall position approved by the Board and does not undertake any speculative trading activity.
With year end net debt of 1,119 million, the Group year end debt to equity ratio was 119% 2003 04 119%.
The Debt profile Directors believe this reflects an appropriate balance sheet structure for the underlying businesses.
At 31 March 2005, loans and finance lease obligations were 1,422 million and the Group held current asset The borrowing powers of the Directors are limited to two investments and cash of 303 million.
Net borrowings and a half times capital and reserves, as defined in the increased by 45 million during the year to 1,119 Companys Articles of Association.
At 31 March 2005, the million, principally as a result of the payment of limit was 2.6 billion.
The Directors confirm that the dividends, the cost of acquisitions of 29 million and Group can meet its short-term requirements from the capital expenditure of 183 million.
existing borrowing facilities without breaching covenants or other borrowing restrictions.
A somewhat larger increase in net debt is projected in 2005 06 reflecting a significant increase in the South South West Water West Water capital programme to meet regulatory targets in December 2005, requirements of Viridor Wastes West South West Waters debt to regulatory asset value RAV Sussex PFI contract and investment for growth.
was circa 53% at 31 March 2005, just below Ofwats optimum range of 55% 65%.
The scale of the During 2004 05, the Group secured 65 million forthcoming K4 investment programme means that this additional term loans and 190 million additional ratio is expected to progressively increase during the revolving credit facilities.
In addition, the Group drew next five years.
down 57 million additional financing under existing finance lease arrangements.
Viridor Waste Pennon Group debt has a maturity of 0 29 years with an Viridor Waste is funded by a combination of Pennon average maturity of 15 years.
The major components of Group equity and debt raised by Pennon Group and debt finance are: direct borrowings by Viridor Waste.
At the year end, Viridor Wastes net debt stood at 131 million, equivalent Finance leasing 824 million to 2.3 times EBITDA.
Viridor Wastes net debt is expected EIB loans 181 million to increase substantially in 2005 06 with capital Bank bilateral debt 255 million investment to meet the requirements of its West Sussex 2012 Bond 150 million PFI contract and also developments at a number of its existing operational sites which will facilitate growth in Interest Rate Management 2006 07 onwards.
Interest costs of 61 million equated to an average The Board believes that South West Water and Viridor interest rate of 5.5%.
Waste have adequate debt capacity for currently The Groups exposure to interest rate movements is anticipated investment requirements, with an managed by the use of interest rate derivatives.
The appropriate margin to provide for currently unforeseen Board policy is that in any one year at least 50% of net opportunities adverse movements.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the The Group continues to explore options to optimise mix of fixed and floating rates.
Relatively low interest funding for the K4 period.
These options could include rates have resulted in the Group fixing 70% of existing additional funding from the sources noted above as well net debt up to 31 March 2006, and 50% up to 31 March as other opportunities.
The notional principal amounts of the interest rate Pennon Group Plc 33 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW swaps are used to determine settlement under those Overall, the net cash outflow of the Group, before the use swaps and are not, therefore, an exposure for the Group.
of liquid resources and financing, was 35.8 million These instruments are analysed in more detail in note 30 2003 04 71.9 million.
Capital expenditure for existing activities is expected to The impact of future interest rate changes is expected to reduce in 2006 07 onwards but the level of investment is be mitigated by the proportion of debt held at fixed rates expected to result in the business being cash negative at as noted above.
Refinancing risk management Liquidity Refinancing risk is managed under the Group Policy that It is Group policy to ensure that the Group has committed no more than 20% of Group net debt is permitted to loan facilities equivalent to at least one years forecast mature in any financial year.
This is achieved through the use of credit facilities which are utilised as required and Counterparty risk management re-financed using drawdowns for longer-term facilities.
Surplus funds of the Group are usually placed in shortPayment commitments are expected to be met on the term fixed interest deposits or the overnight money loan refinancing as required during the coming period.
All deposits are with counterparties that have credit ratings that are approved by the Board.
Internal transfers Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus For regulatory purposes, South West Water funding is funds and from the use of derivative instruments.
The treated as effectively ring-fenced.
Funds raised by or for Board has agreed a policy for managing such risk, which South West Water are used in the appointed business is controlled through credit limits, counterparty provision of water and sewerage services and are not approvals, and rigorous monitoring procedures.
available as long-term funding for the rest of the Group.
Cashflows Covenants The net cash inflow from operating activities was 255.3 Pennon Group and South West Water have entered into million 2003 04 215.1 million.
Capital expenditure covenants with lenders.
Whilst terms vary, these typically cash outflow in 2004 05 was 183.0 million, an increase provide for limits on gearing and interest cover.
The net cash outflow for acquisitions was 28.6 million 2003 04 outflow of 20.0 million.
Equity dividends paid and servicing of net debt involved a cash outflow of 87.4 million 2003 04 88.3 million.
Group net debt increased from 1,074 million at 31 March 2004 to 1,119 million at 31 March 2005.
The net cash outflow reflected continuing investment in South West Water and Viridor Waste in excess of depreciation, together with the acquisition of Thames Waste Management for 31 million at the start of the financial year and the payment of dividends.
34 Pennon Group Plc Modelling future power generation requires consiINTERPRETATION deration of a number of factors including the waste mass and composition already in place and volumes of gas Landfill void space and power generation currently being extracted.
In addition, the model calculations requires an assessment of how the current position is expected to change throughout each site's remaining life The landfill void space figures quoted in this OFR in as an operational landfill and beyond into the aftercare relation to Viridor Waste are in respect of consented void period.
Any such assessment requires certain only void with planning permission for land filling.
assumptions to be made including in relation to the amount of waste in the site, its biodegradable content, The void space figures are based upon Viridor Wastes the age of the waste and the likelihood of obtaining a grid most recent assessment of void available to the company connection at an economic cost.
for waste and daily cover materials.
The void figures have been assessed using pre-settlement levels based upon the extent of the planning consent, proposed base levels based upon the terms of the site licence permit and existing waste surfaces determined by survey.
These calculations necessarily involve an element of management judgement and are based on certain other assumptions such as the waste mix profile of a site.
However, Viridor Waste is of the opinion that its calculation methodologies are in line with convention typical in the landfill industry.
The void actually available at any one time may be different from the figures quoted.
Gas electricity generating capacity of Viridor Waste is defined by the megawatt capacity of the engines installed on landfill sites through which the gas passes to generate electricity.
Pennon Group Plc 35 OPERATING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GLOSSARY The following are descriptions of some of the terms used in this OFR: DEFRA Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Determination The price limits and expenditure plans determined by Ofwat for South West Water for a five year period DWI Drinking Water Inspectorate EA Environment Agency GWh Gigawatt hours HWRS Household waste recycling sites IDoK Interim Determination of K ISO 14001 International environmental accreditation standard June Return The annual return to Ofwat made by South West Water of its performance during the last financial year K3 The South West Water Periodic Review period 2000 2005 K4 The South West Water Periodic Review period 2005 2010 LATS Local Authority Trading Scheme LTCS Landfill Tax Credit Scheme Ml Megalitres Ml d Megalitres per day MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours NFFO Non fossil fuel obligation Ofwat Office of Water Services PFI Private finance initiative PPC Pollution, Prevention and Control Permit Periodic Review The process of determining the price limits and expenditure plans of South West Water for the next five-year regulatory period RAV Regulatory asset value RPI The UK Governments Retail Price Index ROCs Renewable obligation certificates SEPA Scottish Environment Protection Agency SSAP 24 Statement of Standard Accounting Practice Pensions UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Water Regulator The Director General of Water Services By Order of the Board KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 23 June 2005 36 Pennon Group Plc
