Financial review For the first time, the annual results of the Group have been prepared in accordance with Turnover up International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
We have disclosed comparative financial information as reconciled to that formerly presented under UK GAAP on our website, available at www.
The impact of conversion to IFRS has had no cash impact.
Since the publication of the interim results no further adjustments have been made to 6.0% the information previously disclosed, other than to reflect the classification of results of the continuing and discontinued operations of the Group.
As explained in more detail in note 10, on 30 October the Group disposed of its Tea business, followed by the disposal of its Jonker Fris subsidiary on 7 December.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the results of both activities have been presented as discontinued operations for the entire period of ownership in 2005 and 2004.
For 2004, discontinued operations also include the results of Materne, our French spreads business sold in July 2004.
Income Statement continuing operations Sales Sales generated by the Groups continuing operations increased by 6.0% to 789.7m 2004: 744.7m.
The most significant components of this movement were the additional sales arising from our acquisitions of Birds, Quorn and Cauldron, offset by the reduction in sales at MBM, our Potatoes business, as a result of weaker market pricing and the loss of contract volume.
Total Grocery sales increased by 15% to 683.4m, with like-for-like sales, stated before the impact of acquisitions, increasing by 1.6% to 603.8m.
This was the result of the strong trading in the Grocery business in the fourth quarter, compared with the weak trading in conditions experienced in January and an un-seasonally warm Autumn.
Acquisitions In the current year, much progress has been achieved towards the full integration of each of the brands and businesses acquired during 2005, and as such it is anticipated that these businesses will continue to deliver incremental sales and profit at levels consistent with the Groups expectations at the time of acquisition.
In addition, we expect that the transfer of production of Birds to our Knighton site that was completed in December 2005 will generate a level of incremental cost saving in line with the targets set at the time of its acquisition.
For the purposes of comparability, we have presented the additional cost of sourcing production from Kraft as exceptional costs during 2005 see note 5.
For 2005, the contributions generated during the period of our ownership of Quorn 29 weeks and Cauldron 9 weeks are in line with our expectations at the date of each acquisition, with Quorn generating trading profit of 6.0m.
We have integrated the Quorn and Cauldron sales and marketing functions into existing Premier structures to maximise the sales growth and profitability in our ownership of the leading two Meat-Free brands in the market.
We continue to consider actively opportunities to acquire new brands, based on a strict set of strategic and financial criteria.
Gross profit Gross profit for 2005 was 206.4m, an increase of 15.7% over 2004.
On a like-for-like basis total gross margins stated prior to Birds transitional manufacturing costs were 25.8%, up from 24.2% in 2004.
This improvement primarily reflects the benefit of significant capital investment in production efficiency, a reduction in depreciation charged following a review of the estimated useful economic life of our assets and the write off of assets damaged in the fire at our Bury St Edmunds factory supplemented by a strong performance from our drive brands.
The overall increase reflects this like-for-like performance coupled with the strong gross profit margins of our acquisitions and the effect of the disposals of the Tea business and Jonker Fris.
22 Premier Foods plc Selling and distribution costs Selling and distribution expenses were 73.7m for 2005, an increase of 16.2% compared to 2004.
On a total like-for-like basis, selling and distribution expenses decreased by 1.0m, reflecting an increase of 5.0m on marketing spend relating to primarily our Branston Beans launch offset by logistics cost savings made within Grocery and Fresh Produce.
Administrative costs Administrative expenses were 39.8m in 2005, an increase of 6.4% compared to in 2004.
On a total like-for-like basis administrative expenses before amortisation and exceptional items increased by 0.5m primarily due to the impact of share-based payment costs of 1.1m offset by the rationalisation of property and other fixed costs in Fresh Produce of 1.0m.
Amortisation of intangible assets increased to 6.3m in 2005 2004: 2.8m, primarily due to the acquisitions of Birds and Quorn.
Other operating income Other operating income amounted to 2.4m comprising 0.9m of fair value movements on ongoing forward foreign exchange contracts and 1.5m of income under our business interruption insurance in relation to the fire at Bury St Edmunds.
Under IAS 39, changes in the fair value of unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts that are not designated as hedges are now recorded outside of cost of sales and are recorded as other operating income or expense.
The net economic impact remains the same.
Operating profit Operating profit before exceptional items for the continuing business was 102.1m for 2005, an increase of 5.8m, or 6.0%, compared to 2004.
Operating profit after exceptional items increased by 18.2% to 95.3m.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are not explicitly addressed in IFRS.
Accordingly the Group has defined exceptional items as those items of financial significance to be disclosed separately, in order to assist in understanding the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
These items relate to events or circumstances that are non-recurring in nature.
Exceptional items for the period reflect the aggregate effect of a number of non-recurring events, resulting in a net expense of 6.8m compared to 15.7m in the prior year.
The principal elements of the charge for the current period relate to the costs associated with the integration of the Birds business, the rationalisation of our operations at MBM, the Sudan 1 product recall and the impact of the insurance claim for the Bury St Edmunds fire see note 5.
Pensions Consistent with all public companies, the Group reviews actuarial assumptions used in calculating its pension obligations on a regular basis.
It is our objective to ensure that the balance between the cash flow risk to the business and our responsibilities to our current and former employees is fully and regularly understood and that the impact of changes to the composition of the business on our pension obligations is known in advance.
In this context, the Group monitors the scheme-specific demographic characteristics of members, along with the discount rates, returns on equity, inflation and assumptions about the rate of future salary increases.
As at 31 December 2005, on an IAS 19 Employee 18.
2 % Benefits basis, in aggregate the Groups pensions are in deficit net of related deferred tax asset by 59.1m.
We have revised the assumptions used in determining the IAS19 liabilities Growth in to reflect changes in the economic environment and the scheme as at 31 December 2005. operating profit These assumptions, detailed in note 24, continue to be monitored on a regular basis.
23 Premier Foods plc Financial review Interest Interest payable for the business of 51.5m comprised net cash interest payable of 42.4m, the write-off of debt issuance costs arising on the re-negotiation of borrowings in 2005 of 6.3m, the regular amortisation of debt issuance costs of 1.7m and the impact of movements in the fair value of interest rate swaps of 1.1m.
The net interest payable of 43.5m, after interest income of 8.0m represents a significant saving on the prior year cost of 78.3m.
The saving is a consequence of the new financing structure put in place at the time of the IPO in July 2004.
At the time of the acquisition of Marlow Foods in June 2005, the Group carried out a further re-financing exercise to fund the acquisition, its future investment programmes and its ongoing working capital requirements.
This resulted in the write-off of 6.3m of un-amortised facility costs relating to the previous structure.
Facility costs relating to the new credit facilities totalled 5.6m and are being amortised over the term of the new facilities.
The Group continues to actively review the sources and cost of funds in the context of its short to medium-term investment opportunities with the intention of securing the lowest cost of financing for the level of gearing.
Taxation The tax charge and effective rate of tax for continuing operations were 14.9m and 28.8% respectively, broadly in line with the rate anticipated for the full year.
The underlying cash rate of tax paid for 2005 is 24%, reflecting the deductibility of goodwill arising on certain acquisitions and the acceleration of benefits available through ongoing capital expenditure programmes.
Under IFRS, it is anticipated that the effect of an ongoing investment programme will be to maintain the effective cash rate of tax within a range of 25-26% in the medium term, with movements in deferred tax adjusting the income statement effective rate of tax to the UK statutory rate.
Discontinued operations The Group continues to actively monitor the ongoing operational performance and strategic positioning of all its brands and product categories.
As a result of this process, on 30 October 2005, the Group sold its Tea business to Apeejay Tea International for consideration of 80.2m and sold its Netherlands-based convenience foods business, Jonker Fris, to NPM on 7 December 2005 for consideration of 4.4m.
In aggregate, the Group recorded a profit on disposal of these businesses of 40.9m, a result that reflected the best value available to the Group.
This profit, combined with the operating profits earned by each of the businesses during the Groups period of ownership net of taxes, has been recorded as the result of discontinued operations in the income statement.
Earnings per share Based on our performance for the year, basic earnings per share were 34.0p 2004: 9.9p.
In accordance with IFRS and as a reflection of the impact of disposals in the year, basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations were 15.0p per share 2004: 1.5p and 19.0p per share 2004: 8.4p respectively, significantly ahead of the prior year.
Dividend Consistent with our stated dividend policy, on 7 March 2006 the Board recommended a final dividend of 9.50p per ordinary share 2004: 9.00p, resulting in a total dividend for 2005 of 14.25p per ordinary share.
The final dividend payment, which totals 23.5m, is payable in July 2006.
Under IFRS final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are declared.
24 Premier Foods plc Financial review Cash flow and borrowings In the year, the Groups net borrowings increased from 370.3m to 572.1m.
After a cash inflow from operations of 73.9m, the primary components of the net outflow were acquisition cash flows including repayment of Marlow Foods debt, net of 15.
0p disposals, of 194.2m, ongoing net capital expenditure of 36.2m, dividends of 33.8m and debt issuance costs of 5.6m.
Earnings Net cash generated by operating activities of 73.9m in 2005 compares with 28.5m in per share continuing 2004, primarily reflecting an improvement in operating profit of 14.7m and a reduction of 23.1m in net interest payable.
Acquisition cash flows including repayment of Marlow Foods debt of 275.8m consist of the consideration and associated transaction costs of 72.1m, 172.0m and 27.1m for the purchase of Birds, Marlow Foods and Cauldron within Grocery and 4.6m for Gedneys within Fresh Produce.
The total consideration for Marlow Foods included 3.2m of acquisition related costs and included a payment of a cash sum of 118.6m net of cash acquired, assumed borrowings of 53.4m and 4.1m of loan notes.
Capital expenditure The Group operates a capital expenditure programme that is monitored within pre-defined financial targets, related to the performance of the Group, operating efficiency and growth characteristics of each investment.
In 2005, the Group incurred net capital expenditure totalling 36.2m in relation to ongoing and acquired businesses.
This was in addition to the re-build of our Bury St. Edmunds plant.
This figure includes acquisition related capital expenditure of 6.0m spent on the relocation of Birds production to our Knighton factory.
We continue to review the capital demands of the business and consider the expenditure for 2005 to reflect a level of spend slightly ahead of our ongoing target level, as a result of a combination of recurring and non-recurring investment requirements.
Impact of IFRS The consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in accordance with IFRS.
The Group has satisfactorily completed its conversion to IFRS.
The impact on earnings has been limited to the accounting for the Groups foreign exchange and interest rate swaps, the amortisation of intangibles, pension accounting, accruals for employee incentive awards and deferred tax.
There have also been a number of presentational changes to the income statement and balance sheet, but there has been no cash impact arising from any of these adjustments.
IFRS will form the basis for all of our financial communications in the future.
Following our transition to IFRS, the Group conducted a review of the useful economic lives and residual values of its property, plant and equipment.
As a consequence, and based upon independent valuation advice, we have revised the weighted average useful lives of our assets upwards, with the effect of reducing our current year and ongoing depreciation charge by 3.0m3.6m annually.
Paul Thomas Finance Director 25 Premier Foods plc Financial review
