co. uk INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ARRIVA PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Arriva plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and related notes.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Arriva plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In addition, the directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors' Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Highlights of the year, the Chairmans Statement, the Group Development Across Europe, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Responsibility Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Five-Year Financial Summary and the Extracts from the Report on the Transition to IFRS.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 13 March 2006 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 89 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2006 07 Annual General Meeting Meeting date 19 April 2006 Final ordinary dividend Record date 31 March 2006 Payment date 2 May 2006 Results for 6 months to 30 June 2006 Announcement date 7 September 2006 Interim ordinary dividend Record date 15 September 2006 Payment date 2 October 2006 Results for the year ended 31 December 2006 Announcement date 8 March 2007 subject to confirmation REGISTERED OFFICE AND REGISTRAR DETAILS Registrar and Shareholder Information Secretary & Registered Office Computershare Investor Services PLC David Turner BA, FCIS PO Box 82 Arriva plc The Pavilions Admiral Way Bridgwater Road Doxford International Business Park Bristol Sunderland BS99 7NH SR3 3XP Tel: 08707 020 000 Tel: 0191 520 4000 www.
co. uk Company no: 347103 ADVISORS Auditors Solicitors Stockbrokers Merchant Bankers  LLP Dickinson Dees ABN Amro Hoare Govett N M Rothschild & Sons Limited 89 Sandyford Road St Anns Wharf 250 Bishopsgate New Court Newcastle upon Tyne 112 Quayside London St Swithins Lane NE1 8HW Newcastle upon Tyne EC2M 4AA London NE99 1SB EC4P 4DU Citigroup Global Markets Field Fisher Waterhouse Citigroup Centre 35 Vine Street 33 Canada Square Financial Public Relations London Canary Wharf Tulchan Communications EC3N 2AA London Sixth Floor E14 5LB Kildare House Herbert Smith 3 Dorset Rise Exchange House London Primrose Street EC4Y 8EN London EC2A 2HS 90 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk NOTES NOTES Arriva plc Registered Office: Admiral Way Doxford International Business Park Sunderland SR3 3XP United Kingdom Tel 44 0 191 520 4000 Fax 44 0 191 520 4001 www.
co. uk Designed and produced by Flag Communications Printed by Reed Print & Design
