FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 2005 was another year of solid progress exceeding our earlier Corporate targets.
Growth came across all regions and was strongly The Group has restated the allocation of central costs between area driven by new products like Cillit Easy-Off Bang, Finish 4in1, and corporate operating profit in order to allocate in full the corporate Air Wick Freshmatic and Vanish Oxi Action Max.
Benefiting overheads to the three operating areas.
This presentation best reflects from strong cost containment, operating margin reached our the commercial reality of the business, showing where the profit is 20% target.
earned and reflecting the support provided by the corporate centre to the three operating areas.
Accordingly the corporate line is removed Net revenues grew by 8% 6% constant to 4,179m.
from disclosure, as it is nil.
The Group total is not affected by this Operating profit increased 12% 10% constant to 840m.
2004 has been restated to provide consistent comparatives.
margin increased 10bps to 54.9% as a result of higher margin new CATEGORY REVIEW AT CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES products, and savings from ongoing cost optimisation programmes Fabric Care.
Net revenues grew 2% to 1,113m largely due to the offsetting significantly higher input costs.
Media investment increased success of Vanish Oxi Action, the Companys Fabric Treatment franchise 3% and represented 11.9% of net revenues 2004 12.4%.
Other and Calgon water softener, offset to some extent by softness in marketing investment increased ahead of the rate of net revenue laundry detergent and fabric softeners.
Key drivers of growth included growth due to a shift in marketing mix towards other forms of the roll-out of Vanish Oxi Action Max, Vanish Dual Power and continued consumer marketing.
Operating margins increased by 80bps to 20.1% growth for Vanish carpet cleaners.
due to gross margin expansion and particularly to tight control of fixed costs more than offsetting higher marketing investment.
The major growth driver was the roll-out of Bang under the Cillit brand in Europe, Net income for the year increased 16% 14% constant to 669m.
and the Easy-Off brand in North America and Developing Markets.
Net interest received of 36m 2004 9m was due to the strong cash The Dettol and Lysol disinfecting range, particularly disinfectant spray, inflow over the past year increasing the level of net funds after higher grew in Europe, North America and Developing Markets.
dividend payments and share buy backs, and the conversion of the Convertible Capital Bonds.
The underlying tax rate for the period is Dishwashing.
Net revenues grew 6% to 579m due to strong 26% before non-recurring tax credits of 16m arising from favourable growth in Automatic Dishwashing.
Growth came from the success tax settlements.
of Finish Calgonit 4in1 in Europe, initial sales of Finish Calgonit Quantum in early launch markets and from Electrasol with Jet Dry Fully diluted EPS increased 17% to 90.0p.
GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS AT CONSTANT EXCHANGE Home Care.
Net revenues grew 8% to 628m with strong growth Europe 51% of net revenues for both Air Care and Pest Control.
Air Care grew behind the launch of Net revenues grew by 4% to 2,135m.
Growth came from key recent Air Wick Freshmatic in Europe, North America and certain Developing product introductions.
In Fabric, growth was due to the success of Markets.
Pest Control growth was driven by Mortein Power Booster Vanish with Vanish Oxi Action Max and Vanish Dual Power.
In Surface coils and a strong pest season in the Southern Hemisphere.
Care, growth came from Cillit Bang.
In Automatic Dishwashing, growth was due to Finish Calgonit 4in1.
Home Care increased due to the Health & Personal Care.
Net revenues grew 9% to 662m with successful launch of Air Wick Freshmatic.
Health & Personal Care saw growth across all segments.
Veet depilatories continue to benefit strong growth for the healthcare portfolio due to the roll-out of from the continuing roll-out in Developing Markets and growth Gaviscon in Europe.
Operating margins were 60bps ahead of last year in North America.
Dettol antiseptics grew behind the Personal Care at 23.5% due to tight control of costs offsetting higher marketing range in Developing Markets.
Healthcare products benefited from investment, resulting in operating profits increasing by 6% to 502m.
the continuing roll-out of Gaviscon in Europe.
Suboxone continues to grow strongly as distribution builds in North America.
North America and Australia 31% of net revenues Net revenues increased 5% to 1,281m.
In Fabric Care, Spray n Core Household.
Wash Dual Power Fabric Treatment and Resolve Dual Power carpet Food.
Net revenues grew 2% to 195m with continued growth cleaner grew sales.
In Surface Care increases came from growth for for Frenchs yellow mustard and gains for Franks Red Hot sauce.
Lysol disinfectant spray, and the launch of Easy-Off Bam.
In Automatic Dishwashing increases came due to the success of Electrasol with REVIEW OF FINANCIAL ITEMS Jet Dry Action.
In Home Care, Air Care grew following the launch Basis of comparison: constant exchange.
Movements of exchange of Air Wick Freshmatic, and in Health & Personal Care, Veet rates relative to sterling affect actual results as reported.
The constant depilatories and prescription drug Suboxone were the principal exchange rate basis adjusts comparatives to exclude such movements contributors to growth.
Food increased net revenues due to the and show the underlying growth.
launch of Cattlemans BBQ sauce in retail and to continued growth Convertible Capital Bonds.
On 31 March 2005 the holders of 40m for Frenchs yellow mustard and gains for Franks Red Hot sauce.
9.5% Convertible Capital Bonds exercised their conversion rights Operating margins were 90bps higher at 21.1%, due to substantially to convert their Bonds into 8.1m fully paid ordinary shares of Reckitt higher input costs reducing gross margins offset by tight control Benckiser plc.
The effect of this is to reduce borrowings by 31m of fixed costs.
As a result operating profits increased 9% to 270m.
thereby increasing the Companys net funds position and increase Developing Markets 18% of net revenues the number of shares in issue by 8.1m.
There was strong growth in Net interest.
The net interest income of 36m 2004 9m was due all categories.
In Fabric Care, growth came following the roll-out to strong cash generation over the past year increasing the net funds of Vanish Oxi Action Fabric Treatment products.
In Surface Care, and the impact of conversion of the Convertible Capital Bonds increases came from the success of Easy-Off Bang.
Pest Control grew reducing interest payable by 7m.
strongly with the launch of Mortein Power Booster coils.
Health & Personal Care grew due to the continuing roll-out of Veet in new Tax.
The underlying tax rate for the period was 26% but the charge markets and strong growth for the Dettol range of Personal Care was reduced by non-recurring credits of 16m relating to recent products.
Operating margins expanded 250bps to 8.9%, resulting settlements of long-outstanding tax cases.
in operating profits increasing by 55% to 68m.
7 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 Continued Net working capital.
Net working capital defined as inventories, short-term receivables and short-term liabilities, excluding borrowings, Convertible Capital Bonds and provisions decreased further at the year end by 95m compared to year end 2004 to minus 616m.
Operating cash flow increased to 823m, due to higher operating profit.
Net working capital improvements were lower than 2004 as many of the Groups businesses reached optimal levels.
Net cash flow from operations increased to 758m.
Net interest received was 34m 2004 8m while tax payments decreased by 32m.
Capital expenditure was slightly lower than prior year at 78m 83m.
Proceeds from disposals of fixed assets were 17m 9m.
At the year end net funds were 887m 2004 632m, an improvement of 255m due to strong operating cash inflow and the conversion of 31m of Convertible Capital Bonds, but after higher dividend payments and share buy backs.
The Companys net funds position consisted of cash of 978m 308m and short-term investments of 77m 570m offset by borrowings of 168m 246m.
At the end of 2005, the Group had shareholders funds of 1,856m 1,580m, an increase of 17%.
Total capital employed in the business was 969m 948m an increase of 2%.
This finances assets of 2,343m 2004 2,212m of which 485m 481m is tangible fixed assets, the remainder being intangible assets, goodwill, deferred tax and other receivables.
The Company maintains negative net working capital defined as current assets less current liabilities excluding cash, investments and borrowings of 616m 2004 521m, has current provisions of 4m 2004 4m and has long-term liabilities other than borrowings of 754m 2004 739m.
The Companys financial ratios remain strong.
Return on shareholders funds net income divided by total shareholders funds was 36.0% 2004 36.5%.
Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend of 21p per share, an increase of 17%, to give a full year dividend of 39p per share, an overall increase of 15%.
The dividend, if approved by shareholders at the AGM on 4 May 2006, will be paid on 25 May to shareholders on the register on 3 March.
The ex dividend date will be 1 March 2006.
Share buy back programme During 2005, the Group purchased 17.445m shares for cancellation at a cost of 300m as part of its ongoing share buy back programme.
The Company has confirmed its intention to repurchase a further 300m of its own shares during 2006.
8 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CREDIT RISK The Groups multi-national operations expose it to a variety of The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Financial financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency instrument counterparties are subject to approval under the Groups exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity and interest rates.
The Group counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the institutions with a BBB rating or better.
The amount of exposure adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board.
instruments, to fix interest rates.
LIQUIDITY RISK The Groups financing and financial risk management activities are The Company has bilateral credit facilities with high quality centralised into the Group Treasury Centre GTC to achieve benefits international banks.
All of these facilities have similar or equivalent of scale and control.
The GTC is not a profit centre, but adds value to terms and conditions, and have a financial covenant, which is not the business operations by managing financial exposures of the Group expected to restrict the Groups future operations.
At the end of centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
The GTC 2005, the Group had, in addition to its long-term debt of 80m manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying 2004 129m, committed borrowing facilities totalling 2,250m commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
2004 750m, of which 750m exceeded 12 months maturity.
Of the total facilities at the year end, 1m 2004 26m was The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines utilised.
The committed borrowing facilities, together with available and authority levels for all areas of treasury activity and individually uncommitted facilities and central cash and investments, are considered approves significant activities.
The GTC operates under close control sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash requirements.
of the Chief Financial Officer and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the overseas businesses were generally remitted to the FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK corporate centre.
The Group used the remittances to settle obligations, a Translation risk repay borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term The Group publishes its financial statements in Sterling but conducts instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or better.
business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of the results and the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and operational profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the Colin Day translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax.
The Group Chief Financial Officer may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods, primarily currency swaps, in the currencies of the countries where most 20 March 2006 of its assets are located.
As at 31 December 2005, 92% 2004 80% of the Groups financial liabilities were in currencies other than Sterling, including 77% 2004 46% being denominated in US Dollars.
All the Groups major currency net assets exceeded the borrowings in the corresponding individual currencies.
b Transaction risk It is the Groups policy to monitor and where appropriate hedge its foreign currency transaction exposure.
These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans.
The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with the GTC to manage these exposures where practical and allowed by local regulations.
The GTC matches the Group exposures, and hedges the net position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
INTEREST RATE RISK The Group has both interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities.
The Group manages its interest expense rate exposure and may use a combination of fixed-rate debt and interest rate swaps.
At the end of 2005, the Group had 85% 2004 66% of financial liabilities at fixed rates.
None 2004 13% of the Groups financial liabilities related to the Convertible Capital Bonds which matured in March 2005.
The Group manages its interest rate exposure on its gross financial assets by using a combination of fixed rate term deposits and forward rate agreements.
9 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
