159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 5 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 5 Operating and financial review Our strategy to deliver strong top line growth is accompanied Description of business by continued commitment to outstanding execution built on strong management, organisational effectiveness and tight Reed Elsevier cost control.
Reed Elsevier is one of the worlds leading publishers and information providers.
The principal operations are in We have established long term financial targets which are North America and Europe and include science and medical, to achieve above market revenue growth and double digit legal, education and business publishing.
Total revenues for adjusted earnings per share growth at constant currencies.
the year ended 31 December 2005 were 5,166m a7,542m The business is strongly cash generative.
principally derived from subscriptions, circulation and copy sales, advertising sales and exhibition fees.
Elsevier Elsevier comprises worldwide scientific, technical and Reed Elsevier is well positioned in markets with attractive medical publishing and communications businesses.
Total growth prospects and has a clear investment led growth revenues for the year ended 31 December 2005 were strategy focused on building revenue momentum across 1,436m a2,097m.
Elsevier is headquartered in Amsterdam all our businesses.
and its principal operations are located in Amsterdam, London, Oxford, New York, Philadelphia, St Louis, Long term growth in our markets is expected to be sustained San Francisco, Paris, Munich, Madrid, Singapore, Tokyo by the continuing demand for professional information.
increasing levels of scientific, medical, legal and business activity as well as the commitment to measurable Growth in the scientific information market is driven by ever improvements in educational standards are generating more increasing scientific research and discovery and the demands demand for high quality, specialist information.
In addition, for greater efficiency and productivity in the research process.
professionals are looking for significant improvements in In healthcare, advances in medical science and procedures productivity through access to highly functional online and the demand for improved medical outcomes give rise to services and associated workflow tools.
the need for high quality specialist information and associated online tools.
Our strategy is aimed at delivering strong sales growth in our markets with innovative and superior products based on The Science & Technology division of Elsevier supplies our content development skills and technology leadership scientific and technical information for libraries, scientists supported by strong sales and marketing capabilities.
We and professionals across the world serving a wide range expect to see sustainable growth in our core information of research fields.
It is the leading global academic journal offerings and to develop these further through organic and publisher and each year publishes over 170,000 new research acquisition investment to meet the expanding needs of our articles in some 1,200 journals and over 1,000 new book customers and to address emerging opportunities in new titles.
Elsevier also publishes secondary material in the geographical and commercial markets.
Our commitment to form of supporting bibliographic data, indexes and abstracts, our ongoing investment programmes is aimed at delivering and tertiary information in the form of review and reference a comprehensive range of highly functional information works.
Its flagship electronic product, ScienceDirect, is a full based products and services that deliver greater productivity text online research service holding over 7 million scientific and success for our business and professional customers.
articles and an expanding portfolio of books currently Forward Looking Statements The Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act 1934, as amended.
These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could differ materially from those currently being anticipated as reflected in such forward looking statements.
The terms expect, should be, will be, and similar expressions identify forward looking statements.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to differ from those foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions and business conditions in Reed Elseviers markets: exchange rate fluctuations: customers acceptance of its products and services: the actions of competitors: legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments: changes in law and legal interpretation affecting Reed Elseviers intellectual property rights and internet communications: and the impact of technological change.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 6 6 Operating and financial review comprising 49 major reference works, 145 book series and Competition within the science and technology and medical seven handbooks in 170 volumes.
The ScienceDirect publishing fields is generally on a title by title basis.
database is accessed by over 10 million users each year and Competing journals are typically published by learned has provided significant improvements in productivity through societies and by other professional publishers.
To a limited quicker and easier access to high quality content.
Elsevier extent, competing journals are also published using continues to develop its electronic product offerings and emerging business models such as the open access model in 2005 saw the first full year of operation of Scopus, an whereby publications are free to the user and funded instead abstract and index database and navigational tool which through fees charged to authors and from governmental significantly enhances research productivity.
The Scopus and other subsidies, or the open archiving model whereby database now has nearly 30 million abstracts of scientific content is made freely available after a period following research articles from 15,000 peer reviewed publications, publication.
13 million patents, and references to 180 million web pages.
LexisNexis The Health Sciences division of Elsevier comprises an LexisNexis provides legal, tax, regulatory and business international network of nursing, health professions and information to professional, business and government medical publishing and communications businesses.
Total revenues for the year division supplies healthcare and medical information to ended 31 December 2005 were 1,466m a2,140m.
medical researchers, practicing professionals and students.
Its principal geographic markets are the United States, the Legal and regulatory markets worldwide are seeing United Kingdom, Germany, France and Spain.
The division continuing growth driven by the increasing level of legislation publishes over 500 journals, including a number of journals and litigation, as well as the increasing number of lawyers.
for learned societies, and over 10,000 book titles and clinical Additional opportunities are also developing beyond the reference works.
Elsevier is also seeing acceleration in core research market, through the delivery of value added the development of electronic products.
These include services to meet demands for greater legal efficiency and multimedia products for use by both medical faculties and productivity.
Increasingly legal information and services are students to support core textbooks as well as online products being delivered online, with considerable potential to deliver for practitioner reference.
Internationally, Elsevier is such products in markets outside the United States where leveraging both its print and online content into new markets online migration is significantly lower than in the through foreign language versions.
The Excerpta Medica US legal market.
In recent years, LexisNexis has, with its Communications business publishes customised information comprehensive US public records databases, expanded in the for healthcare professionals, medical societies and market for risk management.
This is growing dramatically pharmaceutical companies.
due to increasing credit card losses and insurance fraud and the demand for identity verification.
Elsevier aims to be the most valued source of information products for scientific researchers and health professionals.
LexisNexis North America offers legal information products Its key strategic areas of focus are: quality of content: in electronic and print formats to law firms and practitioners, customer service and customer relations: development law schools and state and local governments in the United of productivity enhancing online solutions: expanded States and Canada.
Headquartered in New York, the principal penetration of targeted high growth markets: and operations are located in Ohio, New Jersey and Florida.
In 2005, Elsevier underwent North American Legal Markets division provides statutes and a major reorganisation to upgrade its organisational case law for all 50 US states and Canada as well as research, capabilities and improve accountability and customer analysis and citation services from Matthew Bender, Michie and product focus.
The Martindale Hubbell Law Directory and martindale.
com databases provide access to the Elseviers journals are generally sold to libraries on a paid qualifications and credentials of over one million lawyers and subscription basis, with subscription agents facilitating the law firms worldwide.
LexisNexis also increasingly provides administrative process.
Medical and healthcare journals are total practice solutions, combining content with online also frequently sold to individuals through direct mail and workflow tools.
These tools include electronic discovery, learned societies.
Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, court docket tracking, e-filing, expert identification, legal Scopus and MDConsult, are generally sold by Elseviers document preparation, client development, and many other dedicated sales force directly to customers and end users.
The Corporate and Federal Markets division Books are sold by Elseviers sales force through book stores, offers LexisNexis products and services to corporations, both traditional and online, wholesalers and, particularly in federal government agencies and academic institutions medical and healthcare markets, directly to customers.
together with news, business, financial and public records 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 7 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 7 content.
Its risk management applications are designed to purchase educational programmes through an adoption assist customers in managing risk through fraud detection process.
This process entails state education committees and prevention, identity verification, pre-employment approving a shortlist of education materials from which school screening and due diligence.
The remaining 30 states without an adoption process, known as open territories, allow individual Outside North America, LexisNexis International serves school districts to purchase any educational programmes.
markets in Europe, Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America Harcourt Education has achieved strong performance in recent with a range of local and international legal, tax, regulatory years both in the adoption states and open territories based on and business information in electronic and print formats.
strong curriculum product in key subjects such as reading and The most significant businesses are in the UK and France.
literature, science and health and elementary maths and social studies.
LexisNexis aims to be the leading preferred provider of productivity enhancing information and information-based Harcourt Achieve is a publisher of supplemental school and workflow and client development solutions in its markets.
adult education materials as well as providing professional The key strategic areas of focus are: to expand the business development services for teachers.
Greenwood-Heinemann from research into total practice solutions: to grow a publishes monograph and reference lists and professional significant business in risk management: to expand resources for teachers.
internationally through innovative online product and services: and to continuously improve cost effectiveness.
Harcourt Assessment develops assessment products and services for elementary, secondary and higher education LexisNexiss principal competitor in US legal markets as well as tests for practising and research psychologists.
is West The Thomson Corporation, while the principal US In educational testing, it provides a range of achievement, competitors in corporate and government markets are West, aptitude and guidance testing services for measuring student Factiva a Reuters Dow Jones joint venture and Choicepoint.
It is well known for the Stanford Achievement Test, Major international competitors include The Thomson now in its 10th edition.
In clinical testing, it provides Corporation, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
psychologists with assessment tests for many aspects of human behaviour, intelligence and development.
The Wechsler Harcourt Education products, including the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale Harcourt Education publishes school textbooks and related of Intelligence, are licensed for publication in over 30 countries.
instructional and assessment materials, principally in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand Outside the United States, Harcourt Education International and southern Africa.
Headquartered in New York, the is a provider of textbooks and related instructional materials principal operating locations are in Florida, Texas and Oxford.
to the UK primary and secondary schools market through Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2005 were the Heinemann, Rigby and Ginn imprints and other 901m a1,315m.
English language markets in Australia, New Zealand and southern Africa.
Growth in Harcourt Educations markets is driven by long standing commitments to improve educational standards.
Harcourt Education aims to be the leading provider of Such commitments remain strong and require sustained educational resources to improve student performance.
investment in proven educational programmes.
In recent The key strategic areas of focus are: to sustain high quality, years, there has also been further emphasis on the effective product through strong editorial processes in measurement of the educational results of students, both new publishing and continuous innovation: to expand online to monitor and assist improvement in individual educational teaching and assessment resources: to deepen customer outcomes and to improve accountability.
Overall funding relationships to become the provider of choice of customised for education is expected to continue to increase.
solutions: and to improve cost effectiveness through further upgrade of organisational capabilities, investment in In the United States, Harcourt School Publishers is a publisher technology and cost reduction.
of print and technology enabled instructional materials for students in kindergarten to 6th grade.
Holt, Rinehart and The principal competitors of Harcourt Education are Pearson, Winston offers educational textbooks and related instructional McGraw Hill and Houghton-Mifflin.
materials for students in middle and secondary schools.
The major customers of Harcourt Educations US schools Reed Business publishing businesses are state boards of education and local Reed Business provides information and marketing solutions district and school boards.
Of the 50 US states, 20 periodically to business professionals in the United States, the United 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 8 8 Operating and financial review Kingdom, continental Europe, Australia and Asia.
The division existing and new online products and services in key markets: also organises trade exhibitions internationally.
Total to further upgrade the portfolio through investment, revenues for the year ended 31 December 2005 were acquisition and divestment: to expand geographically in fast 1,363m a1,990m.
growing markets: and to continuously improve organisational effectiveness through investment in people, further Business to business magazines provide an effective development of online competencies, and cost reduction marketing channel through which advertisers reach their programmes.
target audiences, increasingly delivered through leading brands in each sector.
Alongside print magazines, demand Business to business magazines are primarily distributed on is growing for online products which provide improvements a controlled circulation basis in the United States, whereby in productivity through quicker and easier access to more the product is delivered without charge to qualified buyers comprehensive and searchable data.
Business to business within a targeted industry group based on circulation lists marketing spend has been driven historically by levels of developed and maintained by the publisher.
Magazines corporate profitability, which itself has followed overall distributed on this basis are wholly dependent on advertising growth in GDP and business investment.
In the United Kingdom, business magazines are distributed both on a controlled circulation basis and a Reed Business Information publishes over 400 trade paid circulation basis.
In the Netherlands, a higher magazines, directories, newsletters and loose leaf proportion of publications is sold by paid circulation.
publications, and over 200 websites and online services.
Distribution of magazines is conducted primarily through Important magazine titles include Variety and Interior Design national postal services, supplemented by news-stand sales in the United States: Computer Weekly, Estates Gazette, through unaffiliated wholesalers.
Online products and services Flight International and New Scientist in the United Kingdom: are generally sold through dedicated sales forces and and Elsevier and FEM in the Netherlands.
Reed Business intermediaries, including revenue sharing arrangements with Information also publishes directories in selected markets.
other online service providers, and by direct promotion.
Through its Reed Construction Data business, it provides Exhibition space is sold through industry specific and national nationwide coverage of construction project information for sales teams.
Reed Business Informations titles compete with a number In the majority of Reed Business Informations sectors, of publishers on a title by title basis in individual market strong demand is being seen for online services.
Reed sectors, the largest competitors being: Penton Media, Business Information has been particularly successful in Advanstar, VNU, Hanley Wood, McGraw Hill, and CMP Media developing online products and services, which have been United Business Media in the United States: EMAP, VNU growing at over 30% per annum and now account for nearly and CMP Media in the United Kingdom: and Wolters Kluwer, 20% of Reed Business Information revenues.
These products VNU and SDU in the Netherlands.
Competition in trade include totaljobs.
com, a major online recruitment site in the exhibitions and conferences is very fragmented.
Within the UK: ICIS-LOR, a global information and pricing service for the United States, the main competitor is VNU.
Outside the petrochemicals sector: zibb.
nl, a business information service United States, competition comes primarily from industry in the Netherlands: and Kellysearch.
com, an industrial search focused trade associations and convention centre and engine which is being launched internationally.
Reed Exhibitions organises trade exhibitions and conferences internationally, with 460 events in 38 countries, attracting over 90,000 exhibitors and more than 5 million visitors annually.
Its exhibitions and conferences encompass a wide range of sectors, including IT, manufacturing, aerospace, defence, leisure, electronics, food and hospitality, travel and entertainment.
Increasingly Reed Exhibitions is also developing online services to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of its trade shows.
Reed Business Information aims to be the first choice of business professionals for information and decision support in its individual markets and for marketing services.
Its key strategic areas of focus are: to continue to grow rapidly 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 9 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 9 expanding investment in new educational textbook Resources and investment programmes, and, in 2005, successfully introduced the Stanford Learning First classroom based online interim Reed Elseviers most important resources are its intangible assessment product and the Unison scoring, administration publishing assets and its workforce of some 36,500 and reporting platform on which it is based.
Business, the focus has been on developing new online products and services, including webzines, recruitment sites, Reed Elseviers businesses own numerous market leading search and subscription information and data services.
The brands, imprints, titles and technology platforms.
Within ongoing investment includes the international expansion of Elsevier, ScienceDirect is the worlds largest full text online the Kellysearch online industrial search engine and the scientific research service.
Many of Elseviers 1,700 journals continuing development of the successful Totaljobs.
com are the foremost publications in their field and a primary online recruitment website together with investment in the point of reference for new research.
The Lancet has been enabling infrastructure for all these web services.
Reed publishing medical research, news and analysis since 1823.
Exhibitions has also continued to expand its portfolio through Similarly, Elseviers booklist contains numerous pre-eminent new launches and geographical expansion.
These investments and long standing titles.
com is are largely embedded within the cost base of the businesses recognised as one of the foremost online research tools for as new product development and market initiatives are a practicing lawyers, providing subscribers with access to over continuous activity.
The Shepards Citations Service is a well known and highly reputed reference Reed Elseviers workforce is highly skilled and a large resource Shepardizing is a common process for proportion are graduates.
We employ almost 6,000 IT US lawyers checking the authority of cases or statutory specialists and developers, over 8,000 editorial staff, references.
Many of the Harcourt Education brands and and some 10,000 specialist marketing, sales and customer imprints, including Harcourt School and Holt, Rinehart & service staff.
Reed Elsevier aims to be an employer of choice, Winston have maintained market leading positions for over known for its best practices in recruiting and developing fifty years.
The Stanford Achievement Test Series is the most employees.
We seek to employ a workforce which reflects the widely recognised educational achievement test in the United diversity of our customers and communities.
Reed Businesss well known magazine titles such as employment practices are consistent with the principles of Variety, Estates Gazette and Elsevier are widely read for their the United Nations Global Compact regarding fair and nonauthoritative content and up to date industry intelligence, discriminatory labour practices.
Every two years or so we while many of the Reed Exhibitions shows, which include conduct a global employee opinion survey to identify areas World Travel Market, Mipim, MIDEM, Batimat and the for improvement.
Every employee in the company takes part PGA Merchandise Show, are acknowledged as the premier in the annual Personal Development Programme, which marketing events in their field.
reviews skills and performance and identifies opportunities for recognition and advancement.
The Personal Development Reed Elsevier maintains and enhances the value of its Programme is also the primary tool for assessing and intangible assets through continuous investment in the planning employee training.
brands and imprints, new publishing, innovative product and market development, and in the technology platforms and Reed Elseviers remuneration policies are designed to publishing infrastructure on which they are based.
Within attract, retain and motivate employees of the highest calibre Elsevier, the most significant investments in recent years have and experience needed to shape and execute strategy.
been in the ScienceDirect platform, digitisation of the archive The remuneration packages of the directors and senior of over 7 million research articles, and in the Scopus executives comprise a balance between fixed remuneration database.
Other significant areas of investment have been in and variable performance related incentives, including new online clinical reference tools and other e-health a variable annual cash bonus based on achievement of products and in online editorial and production systems.
In financial performance measures and individual key LexisNexis, substantial investment has been made in its performance objectives, and longer term incentive schemes.
online research functionalities and in the development of the Pension scheme membership is offered to all employees in global online delivery platform first launched in 2004 and now the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States and being rolled out in major territories.
Significant investment a number of other countries.
has also been made in new content development and in expanded sales and marketing activities.
A major second data centre was completed in 2005 to expand operational capabilities and provide greater flexibility in continuous delivery.
Harcourt Education maintains significant and 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 10 10 Operating and financial review Our businesses operate in over 100 locations worldwide Risks and our earnings are subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at differing rates.
We seek to organise The key risks facing Reed Elsevier arise from the highly our affairs in a tax efficient manner, taking account of the competitive and rapidly changing nature of our markets, jurisdictions in which we operate.
However, tax laws that the increasingly technological nature of our products and apply to Reed Elsevier businesses may be amended by services, the international nature of our operations, and legal the relevant authorities.
Such amendments, or their and regulatory uncertainties.
Certain businesses are also application to Reed Elsevier businesses, could adversely affected by the impact on publicly funded customers of affect our reported results.
changes in funding and by cyclical pressures on advertising and promotional spending.
Our financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling and euros and are, therefore, subject to movements in Reed Elsevier has an established risk management exchange rates on the translation of the financial information procedure that is embedded into the operations of the of businesses whose operational currencies are other than businesses and is reviewed by the Boards and Audit our reporting currencies.
The United States is our most Committees.
Important specific risks that have been important market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations identified and are being addressed include: in US dollar exchange rates could significantly affect our reported results.
Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent on the continued acceptance by our customers of our products Further details on risk management and internal control and services and the prices which we charge for them.
procedures are set out in the Structure and Corporate We cannot predict whether there will be changes in Governance report on pages 28 to 33. the future which will affect the acceptability of products, services and prices to our customers.
We recognise that Reed Elsevier and its businesses have a direct impact on the environment, principally through the We are investing significant amounts to develop and use of energy and water and waste generation and in our promote electronic products and platforms.
The provision supply chain through paper use and print and production of these products and services is very competitive and is technologies.
We are committed to reducing these impacts, to some extent subject to factors outside our control such whenever possible, by limiting resource use and by efficiently as competition from new technologies and changes in employing sustainable materials and technologies.
There is no assurance that this investment require our suppliers and contractors to meet the same will produce satisfactory long term returns.
We seek to ensure that Reed Elseviers businesses are compliant with all relevant environmental Reed Elseviers businesses are increasingly dependent on legislation and, accordingly, whilst environmental issues electronic platforms and networks, primarily the internet, are important, we do not consider that they constitute a for delivery of their products and services.
Although plans significant risk for Reed Elsevier.
and procedures are in place to reduce such risks, our businesses could be adversely affected if their electronic delivery platforms and networks experience a significant failure, interruption, or security breach.
Our products and services are largely comprised of intellectual property content delivered through a variety of media.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products and services.
However, there is a risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented.
Adjusted operating profit is stated before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition integration costs.
Constant currency growth rates are based on 2004 full year average and hedged rates.
Unless otherwise indicated, all percentage movements in the following commentary refer to performance at constant exchange rates and are stated before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition integration costs.
Key performance measures referred to in the commentary are further explained at the end of the Operating and Financial Review on page 27.
Reported operating results, including amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition integration costs, are analysed in note 1 to the combined financial statements and discussed further below in the Financial Review, and are reconciled to the adjusted figures in note 9 to the combined financial statements.
The comparative 2004 figures have been restated to conform to the IFRS accounting basis now adopted.
Unallocated items comprise corporate costs, return on pension scheme assets and interest on pension scheme liabilities.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 12 12 Operating and financial review Elsevier e % 2005 2004 2005 2004 Change at constant m m em am currencies Revenue Science & Technology 785 779 1,146 1,145 5% Health Sciences 651 584 951 859 11% 1,436 1,363 2,097 2,004 8% Adjusted operating profit 449 445 655 654 5% Adjusted operating margin 31.3% 32.6% 31.3% 32.6% -0.8pts Revenue and adjusted operating profits were ahead by 8% Elsevier has had a successful year and 5% respectively at constant exchange rates including a part year contribution from the MediMedia MAP business with strong demand for scientific acquired in August.
Underlying revenue growth was on target research and medical information at 5% and adjusted operating profits also grew 5%, with underlying margins similar to the prior year despite the within a more supportive funding significant costs of the newly launched Scopus product ahead of revenues building and other new product launches.
Overall environment, particularly for adjusted operating margins, at 31.3%, were 0.8 percentage points lower at constant currencies reflecting the lower online product and in the margin of MediMedia MAP and other acquired businesses.
The Science & Technology division saw underlying revenue growth of 5% at constant exchange rates.
Subscription renewals were strong at 97%, slightly higher than in the prior year, and good online growth was seen in widening distribution through ScienceDirect and in secondary databases including initial sales of Scopus.
There has been continued good take up of e-only contracts which now account for over 40% of journal subscriptions by value, and ScienceDirect continues to see strong growth in usage, up over 20% year on year.
The MDL software business saw only modest growth as a result of the extended sales cycle as pharmaceutical companies migrate to the new platform.
The books business performed well with a strong frontlist.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 13 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 13 Elsevier revenue Sterling 2004 1,363m Science & Technology 785m 2005 1,436m c1,146m Health Sciences d Euro 651m 2004 c2,004m c951m 2005 g2,097m The Health Sciences division saw underlying growth of 6%, Within Health Sciences, the focus has been on expanding with good growth in US book sales, particularly for the world class content and information services, and building expanding nursing and allied healthcare sectors, and in e-health workflow tools and applications.
New online journals and pharma communications.
2005 saw accelerating services were introduced, such as iConsult for the hospital online revenue growth with new product and platform and practitioner markets and new modules for the Evolve releases, and growing and attractive opportunities to expand online platform for the US medical education market.
Outside the US, strong growth was seen Outside the US, we continue to build on strong positions in continental Europe and in Asia Pacific and Latin America and leverage our global network through versioning and with the UK held back by comparison with a particularly geocloning of content and sharing electronic platforms strong prior year.
Total revenue growth at constant currencies and publishing infrastructure.
In August, we acquired the was 11% including MediMedia MAP and other smaller MediMedia MAP business for a270m 188m with its acquisitions.
leading positions in the French, Spanish and Italian medical publishing markets from which we expect strong growth Across Elsevier, the focus has been on execution.
In Science from market demand and through innovation.
& Technology, we have expanded content with an increase of more than 4% in the number of new research articles The outlook for Elsevier is positive.
Subscription renewals are accepted, and new online services and features have been strong, book publishing is expanding, new electronic product introduced to improve customer productivity.
The Scopus is developing well in the market, and distribution is widening.
database service, developed in close cooperation with Organic revenue growth of 5% is targeted for 2006 with the scientific community, continues to be well received in underlying margin improvement from good revenue growth the market with well over 1,000 trial customers.
We are and further cost efficiency.
expanding distribution of our electronic products globally in areas such as China as well as securing major new contracts and renewals, such as the contract to provide all our scientific content online to universities across the Netherlands.
We are also developing more flexible customised offerings to expand further into corporate research markets and smaller and mid-sized institutions.
A major reorganisation is nearing completion to move from a product-centric to a more marketfocused organisation, with a real drive to improve customer relations and service levels, and to focus on under-penetrated and higher growth market segments.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 14 14 Operating and financial review LexisNexis e % 2005 2004 2005 2004 Change at constant m m em am currencies Revenue North America 1,095 949 1,599 1,395 15% International 371 343 541 504 7% 1,466 1,292 2,140 1,899 13% Adjusted operating profit 338 287 493 422 17% Adjusted operating margin 23.1% 22.2% 23.1% 22.2% 0.9pts Revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 13% and LexisNexis had a very successful 17% respectively at constant exchange rates, including a full year contribution from Seisint and other recent acquisitions.
year with revenue growth Organic revenue growth excluding these acquisitions and continuing to build with strong minor disposals was 6%, against a target for the year of 5% and compares with the 4% growth achieved in the prior year, demand for online information with underlying adjusted operating profits up 9%.
Overall adjusted operating margins improved by 0.9 percentage and related productivity tools, points to 23.1% reflecting the good revenue growth and firm cost management.
and further improvement in operating margins.
In North America, LexisNexis saw revenue growth of 15%, or 6% underlying.
In North American Legal Markets, stronger demand was seen from law firms for online information and workflow tools as the total practice solutions strategy gains traction, to deliver organic revenue growth of 5%.
In Corporate and Federal Markets, organic revenue growth was 8% with continued recovery in online news and business, higher volumes for the US patent and trademark office and strong demand in risk management.
Additionally, the Seisint business acquired in September 2004 achieved 20% pro-forma year on year sales growth and strong profit growth despite higher security and other costs following the unauthorised access to its databases reported earlier in the year.
Adjusted operating profits for LexisNexis North America were up 20%, or 11% underlying, with a 1.1 percentage point increase in adjusted operating margins due to the strong revenue growth and the gearing in the business.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 15 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 15 LexisNexis revenue Sterling 2004 1,292m North America 1,095m 2005 1,466m c1,599m d Euro International 371m 2004 c1,899m c541m 2005 g2,140m The International business outside North America saw The outlook for LexisNexis is good.
Revenue momentum excellent growth in demand for online information and from is building in the business as organic and acquisition new publishing with particularly strong performances in investment expands market opportunities and enhances Europe and Africa.
Organic revenue growth was 7%, driven by value added and differentiated offerings.
Organic revenue a 16% increase in online revenues, with underlying adjusted growth of 67% is targeted for 2006 and further margin operating profits up 5% after further investment in Germany, improvement.
Asia Pacific and Latin America.
In LexisNexis, the focus in 2005 has been on combining content with online workflow tools to build total practice solutions, expanding online services internationally, and integrating Seisint within our risk management business.
The success of our strategy is seen in the acceleration of growth in LexisNexis.
There is significantly growing demand for practice solutions from law firms and businesses: Total Litigator, just launched, combines relevant research materials with advanced tools covering electronic discovery, court docket tracking, e-filing, expert identification, legal document preparation and many other litigator tasks, in one integrated online service: Totalsearch provides customers with a single interface to combine searches of their data with our materials: and client development tools help law firms identify business development opportunities and market themselves more effectively to existing and potential clients.
Internationally, the roll out of the global legal platform has brought compelling functionalities to market.
The integration of Seisint is well progressed, with product integration on the Seisint platform expected to be completed this year and the product development and sales and marketing activities now combined.
The return on capital invested in Seisint is building quickly and is expected to get close to a 10% post tax return in only the second full year of ownership, and to continue to grow thereafter.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 16 16 Operating and financial review Harcourt Education e % 2005 2004 2005 2004 Change at constant m m em am currencies Revenue US Schools & Testing 806 774 1,177 1,138 4% International 95 94 138 138 901 868 1,315 1,276 3% Adjusted operating profit 161 157 235 231 2% Adjusted operating margin 17.9% 18.1% 17.9% 18.1% -0.2pts Revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 3% and Harcourt Education had a 2% respectively at constant exchange rates.
Organic revenue growth excluding acquisitions and disposals was 2%, against disappointing year with modest a target for the year of 9-10%, with underlying profits flat.
revenue growth, well behind Adjusted operating margins were only slightly lower by 0.2 percentage points to 17.9%, as the revenue shortfall was target.
Strong growth in the US mostly mitigated by sales mix and firm cost management throughout the year.
basal business, driven by success The Harcourt US Schools & Testing business saw underlying in an expanded state textbook revenues and operating profits up 2% at constant currencies, adoption market, was to a large with a strong performance in the K-12 basal business undermined by a weak supplemental market and significant part offset by a below market underperformance in the supplemental and assessment business.
performance in supplemental and assessment.
The Harcourt US K-12 basal business saw strong revenue growth of 9% despite a lower than 75% implementation rate in relevant Texas adoptions due to the funding delays.
Harcourt won a leading market share in new state textbook adoptions in the core curriculum subjects in which we compete, coming no.
1 in Elementary with a 33% share and no.
Particular adoption successes were seen in Texas health and Florida social studies in Elementary and in literature and language arts and in Texas health and world languages in Secondary.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 17 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 17 Harcourt Education revenue Sterling 2004 868m US Schools & Testing 806m 2005 901m c1,177m d Euro International 95m 2004 c1,276m c138m 2005 g1,315m The supplemental business saw revenue decline of 11% The Harcourt Education International business saw excluding acquisitions and disposals.
This resulted from underlying revenues 1% lower, reflecting a weak UK sharply reduced sales of the literacy backlist titles not instructional materials market as schools held back aligned to the approaches prompted by the No Child spending in the face of considerable funding uncertainties Left Behind Act, and tighter budgets at the school level, surrounding government initiatives.
Adjusted operating partly caused by funds moving to large scale intervention profits were down 10% underlying, due to the revenue programmes sold at the district level.
Firm remedial decline and investment in new assessment product.
action has been taken: a major repositioning of the frontlist publishing programmes to fit with NCLB orientation: a Despite the disappointment of 2005, we believe the outlook new product line under development to address the more for Harcourt Education is positive.
Although the addressable comprehensive intervention need at district level: and adoption market for Harcourt in 2006 is smaller than in 2005, significant upgrading and re-staffing of the sales force.
the early market response to the 2006 adoption programme Some positive impact from this will be seen in 2006, with is encouraging and, as stated above, progress is expected revenue expected to return to growth, but the major effect in restoring growth to the supplemental and assessment will be in 2007. businesses.
Overall, organic revenue growth of 24% is targeted for 2006, whilst adjusted operating profits are Harcourt Assessment saw underlying revenue decline of 1% expected to be lower due to the significant sales and reflecting the failure to win a satisfactory share of significant marketing investment ahead of 2007 adoptions.
In state testing contracts, limited new clinical frontlist 20072009, the textbook adoption cycle sees a strong publishing, and an unexpected cut back on school spending growth phase.
Harcourt has a strong programme in on traditional catalogue product.
Again, significant action is development to capitalise on this opportunity, and also being implemented to address the issues.
Changes are being expects to see improved momentum in the supplemental made at a senior management level, a major upgrade in and assessment businesses.
sales management and in programme servicing is underway, the clinical publishing frontlist is being strengthened, and a step change is targeted in margin through an extensive cost reduction and efficiency programme.
We expect a meaningful impact from these initiatives in 2006, with revenue returning to growth and margin improvement.
Results will also benefit from the continuing rollout of the Stanford Learning First online interim assessment product in 2006.
The early modules of Stanford Learning First and the Unison platform on which it is based have both been well received in the market and the prospects look promising.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 18 18 Operating and financial review Reed Business e % 2005 2004 2005 2004 Change at constant m m em am currencies Revenue Reed Business Information US 324 323 473 475 UK 259 244 378 359 6% Continental Europe 270 268 394 394 Asia Pacific 39 33 57 48 14% Reed Exhibitions 471 421 688 619 11% 1,363 1,289 1,990 1,895 5% Adjusted operating profit 214 194 313 285 9% Adjusted operating margin 15.7% 15.0% 15.7% 15.0% 0.7pts Revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 5% and Reed Business had a successful 9% respectively at constant exchange rates.
Organic revenue growth was 5%, against a target for the year of 4-5% and year with stronger revenue growth, compares with 2% in the prior year.
Adjusted operating profit driven by rapidly growing online excluding acquisitions and disposals was 10%.
The exhibitions business grew underlying revenues 11% whilst services and excellent growth the magazines and information publishing businesses saw underlying revenue growth of 2%, which compares with a flat in exhibitions.
Margins improved performance in the prior year.
Adjusted operating margins increased by 0.7 percentage points to 15.7% despite the further through revenue growth net cycling out of contribution from biennial joint venture and firm cost management.
The Reed Business Information magazine and information publishing businesses saw continued strong growth in online services whilst print advertising remains variable by geography and sector, in part reflecting migration to strongly growing online services.
In the US, revenues were up 1% from continuing titles, i. e. excluding the manufacturing product news titles which are currently being sold, with adjusted operating profits up 20% through continuing cost actions.
The Media division continues to perform well with other divisions broadly flat as print advertising migrates online.
In the UK, organic revenue growth was 7% driven by strong growth in online recruitment and paid search.
The property, science, aerospace and agriculture sectors performed well with weakness in the social care market.
Adjusted operating profits were 15% ahead underlying due to strong revenue growth and firm cost control.
In Continental Europe, underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were 1% and 6% lower respectively, with a continuing depressed market environment in The Netherlands in particular.
Focus on new online services, market share performance and yield management largely mitigated the weakness in the advertising market.
Asia Pacific saw 8% underlying revenue growth with strong performances in Japan and Singapore.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 19 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 19 Reed Business revenue Sterling 2004 1,289m Reed Exhibitions US 2005 1,363m 471m 324m c688m c473m Asia Pacific d Euro 39m c57m 2004 c1,895m Continental Europe UK 2005 g1,990m 270m 259m c394m c378m Reed Exhibitions had a very successful year, with underlying The outlook for Reed Business is positive.
Exhibition demand revenue growth of 11% whilst adjusted operating profits grew remains good, although the exceptional growth of 2005 is 7%, or 15% before the cycling out of the contribution from not expected to be repeated in 2006, and the growing online a number of biennial joint venture exhibitions.
Good growth business is delivering growth in the magazine and information was seen across the business, in the US, Europe and Asiapublishing business.
Organic revenue growth of 45% and Pacific, with strong demand, new launches and a turnaround further margin improvement is targeted for 2006. in some underperforming sectors.
Particularly strong performances were seen in Japan and in the international entertainment and property shows.
In Reed Business, the focus in 2005 has been on expanding our online services to the business communities we serve, through webzines, recruitment sites, search and subscription information and data services.
Reed Business Information online revenues grew over 30% in the year to more than $300m and now account for nearly 20% of RBI revenues.
This follows several years of sustained investment in online services, anticipating the shift from print to online in business market growth.
The most developed territory, where we started investing first, is the UK and well illustrates the potential for our online services.
Online revenues grew by over 30% in the UK in 2005 and now account for 35% of total revenues.
Further continued development is underway of sector specific recruitment sites, expansion of the Kellysearch service for sourcing industrial components, and in providing more specialised search offerings.
In addition to online, Reed Business has continued to invest in new titles and exhibitions and in upgrading formats.
Growth is accelerating in China and other developing markets through launch and alliance, such as the exhibitions joint venture in China with Sinopharm announced in August.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 20 20 Operating and financial review Financial review Reed Elsevier combined businesses e % 2005 2004 2005 2004 Change at constant m m em em currencies Reported figures Revenue 5,166 4,812 7,542 7,074 7% Operating profit 839 766 1,225 1,126 12% Profit before tax 701 631 1,023 928 14% Net borrowings 2,694 2,532 3,933 3,570 Adjusted figures Operating profit 1,142 1,066 1,667 1,567 8% Profit before tax 1,002 934 1,463 1,373 9% Operating cash flow 1,080 1,013 1,577 1,490 8% Operating margin 22% 22% 22% 22% Operating cash flow conversion 95% 95% 95% 95% Adjusted figures are presented as additional performance measures and are stated before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, gains on disposals and investments, related tax effects and movements on deferred tax balances not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted figures are provided in the notes to the combined financial statements.
The amortisation charge in respect of acquired Revenue, at 5,166m a7,542m, increased by 7% expressed intangible assets amounted to 276m a403m, up 21m a28m both in sterling and euros, and at constant exchange rates.
on the prior year, principally as a result of a full years Excluding acquisitions and disposals, underlying revenue amortisation for the Seisint and Saxon acquisitions made in growth was 5%.
2004 and the MediMedia MAP acquisition from August 2005.
Acquisition integration costs were 21m a30m against Reported figures 38m a56m in the prior year.
Reported operating profits, after amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition integration costs, at The reported profit before tax for the Reed Elsevier combined 839m a1,225m were up 10% expressed in sterling and 9% businesses, including amortisation of acquired intangible expressed in euros against the 766m a1,126m reported in assets, acquisition integration costs and net gains on 2004 restated under IFRS.
The increase reflects the strong disposals and investments, was 701m a1,023m, which is underlying operating performance and the contribution from up 11% expressed in sterling and 10% expressed in euros.
Revenue by Revenue by Revenue by business segment geographical market source Elsevier 28% North America 57% Subscriptions 38% LexisNexis 28% United Kingdom 11% Circulation 33% Harcourt The Netherlands 4% Advertising 13% Education 18% Rest of Europe 16% Exhibitions 9% Reed Business 26% Rest of world 12% Other 7% 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 21 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 21 The reported tax charge of 237m a346m compares with hedge rates in Elsevier journal subscriptions.
The net benefit a charge of 170m a250m in the prior year.
The increase of the Elsevier science journal hedging programme is lower principally reflects movements in deferred tax balances, in 2005 than in 2004 as the effect of the weaker US dollar arising on unrealised exchange differences on long term is systematically incorporated within the three year rolling inter-affiliate lending, that are recognised in the income hedging programme.
statement under IFRS but are not expected to be realised in the foreseeable future.
Within adjusted operating profits, the net pension expense including the net pension financing items included within The reported profit attributable to shareholders of operating profit was 100m a146m, up 11m a15m on the 462m a675m is broadly flat against the 459m a675m prior year principally reflecting the market decline in real reported in the prior year, reflecting the strong operating corporate bond yields used to calculate pension service performance of the business offset by the swing in non costs.
The charge for share based payments was cash deferred tax balances referred to above.
57m a83m, down from 59m a87m in the prior year due principally to expiry of the 2000 long term incentive plan Adjusted figures service period.
Restructuring costs, other than in respect Adjusted figures are used by Reed Elsevier as additional of acquisition integration, were 25m a37m, increasing performance measures and are stated before amortisation 7m a11m on the prior year as the businesses are of acquired intangible assets and acquisition integration reorganised to improve cost efficiency and to better align costs, and, in respect of earnings, reflect a tax rate that behind the online growth opportunity.
excludes the effects of movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in Net finance costs, at 140m a204m, were 8m a10m higher the near term.
Profit and loss on disposals and other non than in the prior year and included a 8m a12m net credit operating items are also excluded from the adjusted figures.
on the mark-to-market of non-qualifying instruments and Comparison at constant exchange rates uses 2004 full year undesignated hedges under IAS 39 which applies from average and hedged exchange rates.
The increase in costs reflects higher interest rates and the financing of prior year and 2005 acquisitions, Adjusted operating profits, at 1,142m a1,667m, were up 7% partly offset by the benefit of strong free cashflow.
expressed in sterling and 6% in euros.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted operating profits were up 8%, or 6% Adjusted profits before tax were 1,002m a1,463m, up 7% underlying excluding acquisitions and disposals.
Underlying expressed in both sterling and euros.
At constant exchange operating margins improved by 0.2 percentage points from rates, adjusted profits before tax were up 9%.
the stronger revenue growth and through firm cost management.
The effective tax rate on adjusted earnings, at 24.6%, was lower than the 26.2% effective rate in the prior year, The overall adjusted operating margin, at 22.1%, was reflecting non recurrence of one off costs and a reduction in 0.1 percentage point lower than in the prior year reflecting the corporation tax rate in the Netherlands.
The effective tax the inclusion of lower margin acquisitions and currency rate on adjusted earnings excludes the effect of movements effects, most particularly the year on year movement in in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that are not Use of adjusted Currency profile Currency profile 2005 adjusted pre-tax profit 2005 net borrowings operating cash flow Net interest 142m c207m Free cash flow after dividends Sterling 19% 2,355m US Dollar 428m c625m c3,437m Euro 29% Taxation 108m c158m Sterling 174m c254m US Dollar 46% 413m c604m Euro Dividends 336m c491m Other 6% 34m c50m Other 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 22 22 Operating and financial review expected to crystallise in the near term, and more closely in respect of prior year acquisitions.
Acquisition integration aligns with cash tax costs.
Adjusted operating profits and related spend in respect of the 2005 and other recent taxation are also grossed up for the equity share of taxes acquisitions amounted to 28m a41m.
acquisitions contributed 7m a10m to adjusted operating profit in the year and added 8m a12m to net cash inflow The adjusted profit attributable to shareholders of from operating activities for the part year under Reed 754m a1,101m was up 10% expressed in sterling and up Elsevier ownership.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted profit attributable to shareholders was up 11%.
Net borrowings at 31 December 2005 were 2,694m a3,933m 2004: 2,532m a3,570m, an increase of 162m in sterling Cash flows and debt and a363m in euros since 31 December 2004 due to foreign Adjusted operating cashflow was 1,080m a1,577m, up 7% exchange translation effects following the significant expressed in sterling and 6% in euros on the prior year, and strengthening of the US dollar between the beginning and 8% at constant currencies.
The conversion rate of adjusted end of the year.
These translation effects increase net debt operating profits into cashflow was strong at 95% 2004: expressed in sterling by 268m and in euros by a518m, more 95%, reflecting the continuing focus on managing working than offsetting the benefit of free cashflow less dividend and capital as the business expands.
Net debt is stated including a fair value adjustment to increase gross debt by 175m a256m under Capital expenditure on fixed assets, included within adjusted IFRS which is largely offset by the corresponding fair value operating cashflow, was 195m a285m 2004: 192m a282m of derivatives used to hedge the related debt instruments.
as investment levelled off, and included 102m a149m 2004: 110m a162m in respect of capitalised development Gross borrowings after fair value adjustments at costs within intangible assets.
Depreciation amortisation of 31 December 2005 amounted to 3,164m a4,619m, tangible fixed assets and capitalised development costs was denominated mostly in US dollars, and were partly offset 144m a210m 2004: 126m a185m.
by the fair value of related derivatives of 174m a254m and cash balances totalling 296m a432m invested in short term Net working capital excluding fixed assets and financing items deposits and marketable securities.
After taking into account i. e. principally trade debtors, inventories and pre-publication interest rate derivatives, a total of 75% of Reed Elseviers costs, less trade creditors, deferred revenues and provisions gross borrowings were at fixed rates and had a weighted was 107m a156m negative 2004: 177m a250m negative, average interest coupon of 5.1% and an average remaining with the increase of 70m a94m principally reflecting the life of 4.0 years.
growth of the business and currency translation effects.
Capital employed and returns Net interest paid in the year of 142m a207m 2004: The capital employed in the business at 31 December 2005 130m a191m was similar to the net finance costs.
Tax paid was 9,705m a14,169m 2004: 8,579m a12,096m, after of 171m a250m 2004: 209m a307m was lower than the adding back accumulated amortisation of acquired intangible effective tax charge on adjusted earnings and the prior year assets and goodwill.
The increase of 1,126m a2,073m due to refunds of tax paid on earlier assessments.
principally arises from currency translation effects 767m a1,549m, most particularly from the strengthening Free cashflow after interest and taxation was of the US dollar between 1 January and 31 December 2005, 764m a1,116m 2004: 656m a966m, up 108m a150m and from acquisitions 318m a464m.
reflecting the strong operating cashflow performance and lower taxes paid.
Dividends paid to shareholders in the year The return on average capital employed in the year was amounted to 336m a491m 2004: 309m a454m, the 9.4% 2004: 9.0%, and compares with an estimated weighted increase reflecting the more progressive dividend policy average cost of capital for Reed Elsevier of 7.5%.
This return announced in February 2005.
After dividends, free cashflow is based on adjusted operating profits, less tax at the 25% was 428m a625m 2004: 347m a512m, up 23% in sterling effective rate, and the average of the capital employed at and 22% in euros.
the beginning and end of the year retranslated at average exchange rates.
The improvement in the year reflects the good Acquisitions in 2005 were made for a total consideration underlying profit growth and management of working capital.
of 307m a448m, including 14m a20m deferred to future years, and after taking account of net cash acquired of Acquisitions typically dilute the overall return initially, but 8m a12m.
The amounts capitalised in respect of goodwill build quickly to deliver longer term returns well over Reed and intangible assets were 182m a266m and 149m a218m Elseviers average for the business.
The recent acquisitions respectively, the principal intangible assets acquired made in the years 2002 to 2004 are delivering post tax being the MediMedia MAP journal titles and other brands, returns in 2005 of 12%, 12% and 6% respectively and imprints and subscriber relationships.
9m a13m was paid continue to grow well.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 23 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 23 Accounting policies estimated useful lives, subject to annual impairment review.
Introduction Appropriate amortisation periods are selected based on The accounting policies of the Reed Elsevier combined assessments of the longevity of the brands and imprints, businesses are described in the combined financial the market positions of the acquired assets and the statements.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial technological and competitive risks that they face.
Certain statements and the consolidated financial statements intangible assets, more particularly in relation to acquired of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are presented science and medical publishing businesses, have been in accordance with International Financial Reporting determined to have indefinite lives.
The longevity of these Standards IFRS.
assets is evidenced by their long established and well regarded brands and imprints, and their characteristically The most significant accounting policies in determining stable market positions.
the financial condition and results of the combined businesses, and those requiring the most subjective or The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are complex judgement, relate to the valuation of goodwill regularly reviewed, at least twice a year.
The carrying amounts and intangible assets, share based remuneration, pensions of goodwill and intangible assets, including amounts arising on and taxation.
all significant acquisitions, on all acquisitions made in the previous financial year, and on any acquisitions for which there Revenue recognition policies, while an area of management are indications of possible impairment, are compared with focus, are generally straightforward in application as the estimated values in use based on latest management cash timing of product or service delivery and customer acceptance flow projections.
Key areas of judgement in estimating the for the various revenue types can be readily determined.
values in use of businesses are the forecast long term growth Allowances for product returns are deducted from revenues rates and the appropriate discount rates to be applied to based on historical return rates.
Where sales consist of two forecast cash flows.
Based on the latest value in use or more components that operate independently, revenue is calculations, no goodwill or intangible assets were impaired as recognised as each component is completed by performance, at 31 December 2005. based on attribution of relative value.
Share based remuneration Pre-publication costs incurred in the creation of content prior Share based remuneration is accounted for in accordance to production and publication are deferred and expensed over with IFRS 2 Share Based Payment and is determined based their estimated useful lives based on sales profiles.
Such on the fair value of an award at the date of grant, and is costs typically comprise direct internal labour costs and spread over the vesting period on a straight line basis, taking externally commissioned editorial and other fees.
Estimated into account the number of shares that are expected to vest.
useful lives generally do not exceed five years.
Annual The fair value of awards is determined at the date of grant reviews are carried out to assess the recoverability of by use of a binomial model, which requires judgements to be carrying amounts.
made regarding share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rate of return and expected option lives.
The number of Development spend embraces investment in new product awards that are expected to vest requires judgements to be and other initiatives, ranging from the building of new online made regarding forfeiture rates and the extent to which delivery platforms, to launch costs of new services, to performance conditions will be met.
These assumptions building new infrastructure applications.
Launch costs and are determined in conjunction with independent actuaries other operating expenses of new products and services based on historical data and trends.
The costs of building product applications and infrastructure are capitalised as intangible Pensions fixed assets and amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Pension costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS19 Impairment reviews are carried out annually.
Goodwill and intangible assets Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes involves Reed Elseviers accounting policy is that, on acquisition judgement about uncertain events, including the life of a subsidiary or business, the purchase consideration is expectancy of the members, salary and pension increases, allocated between the net tangible and intangible assets other inflation, the return on scheme assets and the rate at than goodwill on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase which the future pension payments are discounted.
The valuation of Estimates for all of these factors are used in determining intangible assets represents the estimated economic value in the pension cost and liabilities reported in the financial use, using standard valuation methodologies, including as statements.
These best estimates of future developments appropriate, discounted cash flow, relief from royalty and are made in conjunction with independent actuaries.
Acquired intangible assets scheme is subject to a periodic review by the independent are capitalised and amortised systematically over their actuaries.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 24 24 Operating and financial review For defined contribution schemes, the net cost represents In April 2005 Reed Elsevier renegotiated and amended contributions payable.
the terms of its US$3,000m committed credit facility.
At 31 December 2005, Reed Elsevier had access to Taxation US$3,000m 2004: US$3,000m of committed bank facilities, The Reed Elsevier combined businesses seek to organise of which US$115m was drawn.
These facilities principally their affairs in a tax efficient manner, taking account of the provide back up for short term debt but also security jurisdictions in which they operate.
Reed Elseviers policy of funding for future acquisition spend in the event that is to make prudent provision for tax uncertainties.
commercial paper markets are not available.
Of the total committed facilities, US$nil expires within one year Reed Elseviers policy in respect of deferred taxation is 2004: US$750m, US$3,000m within two to three years to provide in full for all taxable temporary differences using 2004: US$nil, and US$nil within three to four years the balance sheet liability method.
are only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable based on forecasts of available taxable profits Interest rate exposure management against which they can be utilised over the near term.
Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure management policy is aimed at reducing the exposure of the combined Treasury policies businesses to changes in interest rates.
The proportion of The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have interest expense that is fixed on net debt is determined by requested that Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed reference to the level of interest cover.
Reed Elsevier uses Finance BV have due regard to the best interests of Reed fixed rate term debt, interest rate swaps, forward rate Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the agreements and a range of interest rate options to manage formulation of treasury policies.
Interest rate derivatives are used only to hedge an underlying risk and no net market positions Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed Elsevier are held.
businesses and to hedge transactions.
Reed Elseviers businesses do not enter into speculative transactions.
The At 31 December 2005, after taking account of interest main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, rate and currency derivatives in a designated hedging interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The boards of relationship, US$4,063m of Reed Elseviers net debt the parent companies agree overall policy guidelines for was denominated in US dollars and net interest expense managing each of these risks and the boards of Reed was fixed or capped on approximately US$3,080m of Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Finance SA agree policies forecast US dollar net debt for the next 12 months.
in conformity with parent company guidelines for their This fixed or capped net debt reduces to approximately respective business and treasury centres.
These policies US$1,730m by the end of the third year and reduces further are summarised below.
thereafter with all designated interest rate derivatives which fix or cap expense and all but US$113m of fixed rate term Liquidity debt not swapped back to floating rate having matured Reed Elsevier maintains a range of borrowing facilities by the end of 2009 and 2012 respectively.
and debt programmes to fund its requirements, at short notice and at competitive rates.
The significance of Reed At 31 December 2005, fixed rate US dollar term debt not Elsevier Group plcs US operations means that the swapped back to floating rate amounted to US$1.9 billion majority of debt is denominated in US dollars and is raised and had a weighted average life remaining of 6.7 years in the US debt markets.
A mixture of short term and long 2004: 10.0 years and a weighted average interest coupon term debt is utilised and Reed Elsevier maintains a of 6.0%.
Designated interest rate derivatives in place at maturity profile to facilitate refinancing.
Reed Elseviers 31 December 2005 which fix or cap the interest cost on an policy is that no more than US$1,000m of term debt issues additional US$0.7 billion 2004: US$2.1 billion of variable should mature in any 12-month period.
In addition, rate US dollar debt, have a weighted average maturity of minimum levels of net debt with maturities over three 2.2 years 2004: 1.5 years and a weighted average interest years and five years are specified, depending on the level rate of 5.2%.
At 31 December 2005 there were undesignated of the total borrowings.
derivatives in place which fix the interest cost on an average of US$0.2 billion of debt in 2006.
After taking account of the maturity of committed bank facilities that back short term borrowing, at 31 December Foreign currency exposure management 2005 and after utilising available cash resources, no Translation exposures arise on the earnings and net assets borrowings mature in the next two years, 46% of borrowings of business operations in countries other than those of each mature in the third year, 11% in the fourth and fifth years, parent company.
These exposures are hedged, to a significant 29% in the sixth to tenth years, and 14% beyond the extent, by a policy of denominating borrowings in currencies tenth year.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 25 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 25 where significant translation exposures exist, most notably companies regarding interest and foreign currency exposures, US dollars.
implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards, and electronic collections and payment solutions.
Currency exposures on transactions denominated in a foreign currency are required to be hedged using forward contracts.
The average balance of cash under management in 2005, on In addition, recurring transactions and future investment behalf of Reed Elsevier Group plc and its parent companies, exposures may be hedged, within defined limits, in advance was approximately $0.4 billion.
The precise policy differs according to the commercial situation of the individual businesses.
Liabilities and assets Expected future net cash flows may be covered for sales At the end of 2005, 87% 2004: 89% of ERFs gross assets expected for up to the next 12 months 50 months for were held in US dollars and 12% 2004: 10% in euros, Elsevier science and medical subscription businesses including $8.1bn 2004: $8.4bn and a0.9bn 2004: a0.7bn in up to limits staggered by duration.
Cover takes the form of loans to the Reed Elsevier Group plc group.
Loans made to foreign exchange forward contracts.
the Reed Elsevier Group plc group are funded from equity, long term debt of $1.3bn and short term debt of $0.7bn As at 31 December 2005, the amount of outstanding foreign backed by committed bank facilities.
exchange cover designated against future transactions was US$1.1 billion.
Adoption of International Financial Elsevier Reed Finance BV Reporting Standards Structure Reed Elsevier now prepares financial statements under Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Dutch resident parent International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, with effect company of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV group ERF, is from the 2005 financial year.
The 2004 financial statements directly owned by Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
have been restated under IFRS, adopting a 1 January 2004 ERF provides treasury, finance and insurance services to the transition date, other than in respect of IAS39 Financial Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses through its subsidiaries Instruments for which the transition date is 1 January 2005, in Switzerland: Elsevier Finance SA EFSA, Elsevier as further described in note 33 to the combined financial Properties SA EPSA and Elsevier Risks SA ERSA.
These three Swiss companies are organised under one Swiss holding company, which is in turn owned by Elsevier Reed The required changes in Reed Elsevier accounting policies in Finance BV.
adopting IFRS were in six major areas: Goodwill and intangible assets goodwill is no longer Activities amortised and intangible assets are generally amortised EFSA, EPSA and ERSA each focus on their own specific area over shorter periods.
Employee benefits pension costs and defined benefit EFSA is the principal treasury centre for the combined scheme assets a nd liabilities are measured based on businesses.
It is responsible for all aspects of treasury market values: the amount of any surplus or deficit is advice and support for Reed Elsevier Group plcs businesses recognised in full in the balance sheet.
operating in Continental Europe, South America, the Pacific Share based remuneration the fair value of share Rim, China and certain other territories, and undertakes options, determined at date of grant, is expensed over foreign exchange and derivatives dealing services for the the vesting period.
EFSA also arranges or directly provides Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses with financing Financial instruments with effect from 1 January 2005, for acquisitions and product development and manages cash all derivative financial instruments are measured at fair pools and investments on their behalf.
EPSA is responsible value: hedge accounting is only permissible where for the exploitation of tangible and intangible property rights effectiveness criteria are met.
whilst ERSA is responsible for insurance activities relating to risk retention.
Deferred taxation full provision is made for nearly all differences between the balance sheet amounts of assets Major developments and liabilities and their corresponding tax bases.
The committed bank facilities available to EFSA and Dividends accrual is made for dividends only when they certain of its other term debt agreements were renegotiated have been formally declared by the directors.
EFSA also renegotiated various banking and cash management arrangements in Continental Europe and Asia, and continued to provide advice to Reed Elsevier Group plc 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 26 26 Operating and financial review Parent companies Change at Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV constant 2005 2004 Change 2005 2004 Change currencies m m % em am% % Reported profit attributable 235 235 0% 338 338 0% Adjusted profit attributable 399 363 10% 551 505 9% 11% Average US$: a exchange rate 1.82 1.83 1.25 1.24 Reported earnings per share 18.6 18.6p 0% e0.43 a0.43 0% Adjusted earnings per share 31.5p 28.7p 10% e0.70 a0.64 9% 11% Dividend per share 14.4p 13.0p 11% e0.359 a0.330 9% The Reed Elsevier combined businesses encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, together with their two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The results of Reed Elsevier PLC reflect its shareholders 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The results of Reed Elsevier NV reflect its shareholders 50% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The respective economic interests of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders take account of Reed Elsevier PLCs 5.8% interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
Earnings per share commencing with the tenth business day before the For the parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed announcement of the proposed dividend.
Elsevier NV, adjusted earnings per share were respectively up 10% at 31.5p 2004: 28.7p and 9% at a0.70 2004: a0.64.
The Board of Reed Elsevier PLC has proposed a final dividend Adjusted earnings are stated before the amortisation of of 10.7p, giving a total dividend of 14.4p for the year, up 11% acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, on 2004.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier NV, in accordance with net gains on disposals and other non operating items, related the dividend equalisation arrangements, have proposed a final tax effects and movements in deferred tax balances not dividend of a0.267, which results in a total dividend of a0.359 expected to crystallise in the near term.
The difference in for the year, up 9% on 2004.
The difference in dividend growth percentage change is attributable to the impact of currency rates reflects the movement in the euro:sterling exchange movements on the translation of reported results and the rate between dividend announcement dates.
At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share of both companies would have Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and shown an increase of 11% over 2004. the total of the interim and proposed final dividend for the year, was 2.2 times for Reed Elsevier PLC and 1.9 times for The reported earnings per share for Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV.
Measured for the combined businesses shareholders was 18.6p 2004: 18.6p and for Reed Elsevier on a similar basis, dividend cover was 2.1 times.
Parent company financial statements Dividends The individual parent company financial statements for Reed Dividends to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV continue to be prepared shareholders are equalised at the gross level, including the under UK GAAP.
Under Article 362.1 of Book 2 Title 9 of The benefit of the UK attributable tax credit of 10% received Netherlands Civil Code, UK GAAP may be adopted by Dutch by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
The exchange companies with international operations for the preparation rate used for each dividend calculation as defined in the of financial statements and, accordingly, UK GAAP has Reed Elsevier merger agreement is the spot euro sterling been adopted by Reed Elsevier NV for its individual parent exchange rate, averaged over a period of five business days company financial statements, thereby ensuring consistency.
159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 27 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 27 The source data for calculating the key performance Key performance measures measures is obtained from the Reed Elsevier financial reporting system.
The key financial performance measures used by Reed Elsevier and the bases of their calculation are as follows: The adjusted figures are adopted as key performance measures since they measure performance without Revenue as reported in the financial statements.
reference to non cash amortisation of intangible assets, Adjusted operating profit reported operating profit mostly acquired in prior periods, which has no operational before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, relevance to current performance.
Acquisition integration acquisition integration costs, and share of taxation expenses are excluded since they are a direct function of the of joint ventures.
relevant acquisition activity and not a reflection of ongoing operational performance.
Underlying growth, excluding Adjusted operating margin adjusted operating profit current and prior year acquisitions and disposals, is expressed as a percentage of revenue.
measured to give a proper assessment of year on year Adjusted profit before tax reported profit before tax organic growth without distortion for part year contributions.
before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, Constant currency growth is measured to give a better acquisition integration costs, share of taxation of joint reflection of year on year performance before translation ventures, disposal gains and other non operating items.
effects in arriving at the reported figures in the reporting currencies of the parent companies.
Effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax reflects the tax rate excluding movements on deferred Targets in respect of the principal key performance tax balances not expected to crystallise in the near term, indicators are established each year for Reed Elsevier and its more closely aligning with cash taxes payable, and four businesses, and are set out in the Report of the includes the benefit of deductible tax amortisation on Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and the Operating acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders reported profit attributable to shareholders before amortisation of The derivations of adjusted operating profit, adjusted acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, profit before tax, adjusted profit attributable, and adjusted disposal gains and other non operating items, related tax operating cash flow are disclosed in note 9 to the combined effects and movements on deferred tax balances not financial statements.
The derivation of the adjusted expected to crystallise in the near term.
earnings per share of the parent companies is shown in note 9 to the Reed Elsevier PLC consolidated financial Adjusted earnings per share adjusted profit attributable statements and note 8 to the Reed Elsevier NV consolidated to shareholders of each parent company divided by the financial statements.
respective number of ordinary shares in issue.
Adjusted operating cash flow cash generated from operations plus dividends from joint ventures less net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and internally developed intangible assets, and excluding payments in relation to acquisition integration costs.
Constant currency growth growth rates calculated using the prior year average and hedged exchange rates.
Underlying growth growth rates calculated excluding businesses acquired or disposed or held for sale in the current or previous financial year.
Return on capital employed adjusted operating profit less taxation at the effective rate for the year expressed as a percentage of capital employed, being the aggregate of gross goodwill and acquired intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, internally developed intangible assets, working capital, less net pension obligations and provisions.
