20 Operating and financial review Elsevier Elsevier has had a successful year with strong demand for scientific research and medical Adjusted Revenue operating profit information within a more supportive funding 1,436m 449m environment, particularly for online product c2,097m c655m and in the expanding health professions.
LexisNexis LexisNexis had a very successful year with revenue growth continuing to build with strong Adjusted Revenue operating profit demand for online information and related 1,466m 338m productivity tools, and further improvement c2,140m c493m in operating margins.
Harcourt Education Harcourt Education had a disappointing year with modest revenue growth, well behind Adjusted Revenue operating profit target.
Strong growth in the US basal 901m 161m business, driven by success in an expanded c1,315m c235m state textbook adoption market, was to a large part offset by a below market performance in supplemental and assessment.
Reed Business Reed Business had a successful year with stronger revenue growth, driven by rapidly Adjusted Revenue operating profit growing online services and excellent 1,363m 214m growth in exhibitions.
Margins improved c1,990m c313m further through revenue growth and firm cost management.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 21 Revenue and adjusted operating profits ahead by Outlook 8% and 5% respectively at constant currencies The outlook for Elsevier is positive.
Subscription renewals are strong, book publishing is expanding, new Science & Technology division saw underlying electronic product is developing well in the market, and revenue growth of 5% with strong journal subscription distribution is widening.
Organic revenue growth of 5% is renewals and growing online sales targeted for 2006 with underlying margin improvement from good revenue growth and further cost efficiency.
Health Sciences saw underlying revenue growth of 6% with strong book publishing programme, and good growth in journals and online Revenue and adjusted operating profits up 13% and Outlook 17% respectively at constant currencies including good The outlook for LexisNexis is good.
Revenue momentum contributions from recent acquisitions is building in the business as organic and acquisition investment expands market opportunities and enhances LexisNexis North America saw underlying revenue value added and differentiated offerings.
Organic revenue growth of 6% with good growth in demand for online growth of 67% and further margin improvement are information and workflow tools targeted for 2006.
The Seisint risk management business saw 20% year on year sales growth in its first full year International revenues outside the US up 7% underlying with good growth in online sales and from new publishing Revenue and adjusted operating profits up 3% and Outlook 2% respectively at constant currencies Despite the disappointment of 2005, the outlook for Harcourt Education is positive.
Although the addressable Strong performance in K-12 basal business with adoption market in 2006 is smaller than in 2005, the leading market share in new state textbook adoptions early market response to the 2006 adoption programme is encouraging and progress is expected in restoring Underperformance in supplemental and assessment growth to the supplemental and assessment businesses.
businesses reflecting weak supplemental market, Organic revenue growth of 24% is targeted for 2006 accelerated backlist decline, and limited new publishing whilst adjusted operating profits are expected to be lower and state contract wins in assessment due to the significant sales and marketing investment ahead of 2007 adoptions.
In 20072009, the textbook adoption cycle sees a strong growth phase.
Revenue and adjusted operating profit up 5% and Outlook 9% respectively at constant currencies The outlook for Reed Business is positive.
Exhibition demand remains good, although the exceptional growth Exhibition revenue up 11% underlying with good of 2005 is not expected to be repeated in 2006, and the growth across the business, in the US, Europe and growing online business is delivering growth in the Asia-Pacific magazine and information publishing business.
Organic revenue growth of 45% and further margin Magazine and information publishing revenue up improvement is targeted for 2006.
2%: whilst print advertising was variable, online revenue was up over 30%
