Financial Review Central Costs Central costs exclude divisional management costs which are now charged against the results of the relevant divisions.
Costs for 2005 were 13.7 million higher than 2004 primarily due to formation costs of the new holding company, costs associated with the business review and additional IT, HR, acquisition and IFRS transition costs.
Central costs for 2006 are expected to continue above 2005 levels as the full effects of organisational changes introduced in 2005 come through, coupled with the introduction of new incentive schemes and the relocation of the groups head office to London and Gatwick.
Profits Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation of customer lists reduced by 47.9 million to 308.5 million.
Amortisation of customer lists of 23.0 million 2004: 22.2 million and exceptional charges of 42.2 million 2004: 25.7 million resulted in profit before interest of 243.3 million 2004: 308.5 million.
At constant 2004 exchange rates, before exceptional items and amortisation of customer lists, operating profit fell by 14.1%.
Exceptional Items The group incurred considerable expense in relation to the approach by Raphoe.
Some 10.9 million defence costs were incurred in 2005.
These, together with a 31.3 million impairment charge associated with the closure of UK linen and workwear, announced on 25 January 2006, constitute the 42.2 million of exceptional costs shown separately, as part of operating profit, in the income statement.
One-off Items Operating profit is stated after charging a number of one-off items which increased considerably in 2005 to 19.8 million 2004: 3.3 million.
This excludes exceptional items which are reported separately.
The majority of one-off items relate to reorganisation and redundancy costs, asset impairments, profits on the sale of real estate and professional and other costs.
Of the 19.8 million, the main components were 11.6 million reorganisation costs related to the Textiles and Washroom Services division and 6.5 million of one-off central costs.
One-off items have been separately identified because, although as individual items they are small, there is a large number of them and they have a varying impact on different businesses and reporting periods.
Although not large enough to be classed as exceptional items, in aggregate they make it difficult to understand underlying trends in performance without excluding them.
Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations are principally Style Conferences, which was sold in December 2005.
Style had a profit of 22.7 million in 2005 and a profit on sale of 170.3 million.
Other discontinued operations had an aggregate profit of 0.2 million and profit on sale of 1.0 million.
Including the impact of recycled foreign exchange and tax, profit from discontinued operations was 185.8 million in 2005 2004: 5.2 million.
Interest Net interest payable for the year of 55.4 million was 1.8 million higher than 2004 with the adverse effect of the IAS 19 pension interest increase more than offsetting the benefit of lower 22 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review average debt across the periods.
The year-on-year impact of the loan note due from Ashtead was largely neutral.
The note was repaid in 2005 and the 4.6 million write-off of the associated equity option was offset by the write-back of the discount on the note.
Profit Before Tax After interest and exceptional items, pre-tax profit reduced by 25.9% to 190.1 million at actual exchange rates and by 26.8% to 188.0 million at constant exchange rates.
Taxation The blended headline tax rate in 2005 was 31.1% 2004: 30.9%.
This represents the weighted headline tax rates appropriate to the countries in which the group operates.
It exceeds the UK rate of 30% as substantial profits are earned in France, Belgium and Germany where tax rates range from 34% to 38%.
The actual tax charge for 2005 was 27.1% of profit before tax, down slightly from the rate of 27.2% in 2004.
The principal factor that caused the effective tax rate to be lower than the blended rate is the release of prior year provisions that are no longer required following the resolution of a number of prior year tax issues.
In cash terms, the group will obtain tax relief for the 200 million special pension contribution from 2005 for four years in equal amounts.
Earnings Per Share and Dividends Profit for the year attributable to equity holders was 321.5 million 2004: 190.4 million.
At 7.52 pence, basic earnings per share for continuing businesses was 26.6% lower than 2004.
Basic earnings per share for total operations was up 69.2% on 2004 at 17.82 pence per share.
An interim dividend of 2.13 pence per share was paid on 28 October 2005.
The board is recommending the declaration of a final dividend of 5.25 pence per share, bringing the full year dividend to 7.38 pence per share, a 10.0% increase over 2004.
For the future, it is intended that the dividend will be increased in line with the medium-term trend in earnings provided that cash resources are available.
However, in the short-term, a more cautious approach to dividend growth may be taken until it is clear that the recovery in the business is well established and broadly based.
It is therefore unlikely that the board will recommend an increase in dividend for 2006.
Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations after capital expenditure, tax and interest but before dividends, acquisitions, special pension payments and financing activities.
A reconciliation of net cash flows generated from operating activities to free cash flow is set out in note 31 on page 109.
In 2005, it fell from 241.0 million in 2004 to 160.4 million due to lower operating profit and an adverse movement in working capital.
Free cash flow conversion being the ratio of free cash flow to profit after tax adjusted for non-cash exceptional items and amortisation of customer lists was 83%, 2004: 103%.
This was principally due to a swing in working capital from a 19.1 million inflow in 2004 to a 11.2 million outflow in 2005 as a result of strong fourth quarter trading in manned guarding and City Link as well as operational challenges in UK catering and UK textiles.
During the year, the group received 129.8 million from the redemption of the Ashtead loan note and 323.3 million from disposals, principally Style Conferences.
These cash inflows, together with the free cash flow, were used to fund a 200 million special contribution to the UK defined benefit pension scheme, fund acquisitions and reduce net debt by 249 million.
Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review 23 Financial Review continued Shareholders Funds Consolidated equity shareholders funds at the end of 2005 were negative 666.6 million, compared to negative 794.1 million at the end of 2004.
The principal cause of this movement was the profit for the year of 324.4 million offset by dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of 124.7 million and the actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plans of 60.6 million.
Financial Risk Management Policies The board has approved the following financial risk management policies.
These policies cover those financial risks that are material to the companys operations and financial results.
The board has set appropriate delegated authorities, treasury financing parameters and reporting procedures to ensure compliance with such policies at all times.
The effect of the companys treasury activities is reflected in the disclosures in notes 17, 22, 23 and 24.
Capital Structure and Financing Strategy liquidity risk The board has set the following policies so as to minimise the companys exposure to liquidity risk and thus ensure that the company is able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The company is committed to maintaining a debt equity capital structure that is sufficiently robust so as to ensure the continued access to a broad range of financing sources and thus be able to maintain sufficient flexibility to pursue commercial opportunities, in a timely manner as they present themselves, without the imposition of onerous financing terms and conditions.
The company will maintain a minimum financing headroom of 200million, when measured against its latest forecast anticipated cash flows over a rolling nine-month time horizon.
The companys sources of finance should be structured in a manner so as to minimise potential refinancing risk particularly arising from a bunching of debt note facility maturities.
The companys financing sources should be diversified, across the international banking and capital markets, so as to avoid the over-reliance upon a single source, or disproportionately large source of funds from an individual capital market note issue or bank finance provider.
In November 2005, the groups credit rating from Standard & Poors was reduced from BBB with negative outlook to BBB with stable outlook, reflecting the groups weaker than expected business risk and financial risk profiles following weakened operating performance over the past few years.
Subject to future conditions in the debt markets, in the medium-term we expect to continue to target a stable BBB rating as we believe that this strikes an appropriate balance between an efficient capital structure as represented by a low weighted average cost of capital, liquid access to the capital markets and reasonable pricing.
The combination of our high payout ratio, and the requirement to fund the pension deficit over the short to medium-term, means that in our view the group does not currently have surplus capital which could be returned to shareholders if a minimum BBB credit rating is to be maintained with an appropriate degree of headroom to avoid further ratings pressure.
At 31 December 2005, the group had approximately 820 million of undrawn committed bank credit facilities.
The company is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed 24 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review bank credit facilities as well as all obligations relating to the notes issued under the Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme.
In 2006 the group will seek to lengthen the maturity profile of its debt.
Market Price Risk The company and its reported results are exposed to financial market price movements.
These risks principally arise from the interest and foreign exchange rate markets.
In addition, through its UK defined benefit pension scheme see note 26, the company also has exposure to equity market price movements.
The trustees are responsible for setting the risk management strategy for this scheme.
The board has set the following policies in these areas: Interest Rate Risk The policy is to manage interest rate exposures on a 12-month rolling basis measured quarterly.
Unless otherwise agreed by the board, a minimum of 50% of the companys estimated future interest rate exposures should be fixed or capped for a minimum period of 9 months forward.
Additionally in the event that the companys interest cover measured by the ratio of adjusted operating income to net interest payable is forecast to fall below 5 times, any remaining un-hedged interest rate exposures for the forthcoming 12-month period should be immediately fixed or capped.
The majority of the groups net borrowings are currently at fixed rates of interest for 2006.
Beyond that period, in the event that interest rates rise or fall by 1% p. a. simultaneously across the groups borrowings, the net interest payable by the group would then correspondingly increase or reduce by approximately 9.2 million on an annualised basis.
Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign exchange risk can arise as follows: 1. from retranslation of overseas business profits into the sterling functional reporting currency of the company: 2. from retranslation of assets and liabilities of overseas companies into the functional currency of the company: 3. from cross border trading transactions of group companies: and 4. from the use of currency denominated borrowings and financial instruments used to finance business operations.
The company has a policy of not hedging foreign exchange translation risks outlined in 1 and 2 above.
Further, the company has a policy of not hedging foreign exchange risks arising from cross border trading activities given that these are immaterial.
The company policy is to fund its business operations centrally with borrowings that are substantially denominated 90% or greater in the same actual or effective currencies, and in the same proportion as the groups forecast cash flows generated by the business.
The use of either actual currency borrowings or currency swaps is permitted.
Currency swaps economically change the actual currency of borrowing into an effective amount, borrowed in a different currency.
Currency swaps will be used in preference to actual Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review 25 Financial Review continued currency borrowings when the all-in cost is cheaper than the alternative currency borrowings and or they enable a closer match to the companys debt maturity calendar.
Credit Risk The company utilises financial instruments to manage financial risks that arise naturally from its business operations.
Only group treasury personnel are authorised to deal such instruments on behalf of the company.
The board has set strict policies for the use of such instruments.
The companys policy is to ensure that their use shall be: strictly limited to the management of known or anticipated financial exposures which arise from the companys existing or planned commercial operations: only undertaken by suitably qualified or experienced group treasury staff: undertaken only after efforts have been taken to avoid the need for use of such derivative instruments to manage the groups financial exposures: limited to the management of interest rate or foreign exchange exposures i. e. no equity related or commodity hedging shall be undertaken without specific board approval : undertaken only after the preparation of clear documentation which explains the purpose for the use of the specific derivative and its proposed financial accounting treatment: capped by the maximum approved counterparty limit for that transaction: and subject where relevant to detailed hedge effectiveness testing by group treasury, through to maturity of the transaction, if designated and documented as a hedge at the outset of the transaction.
The company further limits its exposure to credit risk on financial instruments by ensuring, where appropriate, that instruments used are subject to International Swaps and Derivatives Association market standard legal documentation.
The board also sets maximum counterparty approval limits for individual financial counterparties.
These limits are reviewed and varied to take account of changes to the underlying credit rating of individual credit counterparties as required.
Acquisitions The group acquired 40 businesses in the year, together with the acquisition of a minority interest in the French textiles business, for a gross consideration of 49.7 million.
For the proportion of the year these acquisitions were owned by the group, they contributed 36.9 million to revenue, 3.5 million to operating profit before amortisation of customer lists and 2.3 million to profit before tax and amortisation of customer lists.
Details of the businesses acquired and the revenue and operating profit therefrom are set out in note 32 to the accounts.
In the first quarter of 2006, the group acquired J. C. Ehrlich Co. Inc. the fourth largest pest control company in the USA, for a consideration of $141.8 million 80.1 million.
Pensions The group announced on 19 December 2005 that it was proposing to close the UK defined benefit DB pension scheme to future accrual for active members with a view to reducing its exposure to future shortfalls.
Final decisions will be taken once a consultation period with active members has been completed later in 2006.
It is planned to offer existing active members a replacement defined contribution DC scheme.
It is not envisaged that the costs of the new DC scheme will be significantly different from the service costs of the DB scheme.
26 Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review It is too early in the consultation process to assess reliably the impact of the closure on the schemes liabilities.
It has therefore been decided to continue to reflect the schemes deficit on the groups balance sheet on a continuing basis until this review has been substantially completed and the impact of the closure more reliably assessed.
However, it is anticipated that any potential curtailment benefits in the income statement will be largely offset by the cost of switching the schemes investments from primarily equities to primarily bonds.
We hope to provide further details of the likely impact of the closure of the DB scheme in May 2006 in the first quarter trading update.
Total retirement liabilities of the group as at 31 December 2005 were 182.3 million 2004: 311.8 million.
This includes 169.8 million in respect of the main UK DB pension scheme which fell from 302.5 million at the end of 2004 following the payment of the 200 million special contribution in December 2005.
Agreement has been reached with the Trustees to address the remaining deficit by 2012.
Accounting Standards Prior to 1 January 2005, the group prepared its consolidated accounts under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Policies UK GAAP and was required to adopt and present group results under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU with effect from 1 January 2005.
The group began a detailed study in 2003 to review the changes required to move from UK GAAP to IFRS and published a preliminary summary of the anticipated impacts of transition to IFRS.
A Transition Document, published on the groups website in July 2005, provided more detail and showed the changes required to restate the primary financial statements from a UK GAAP basis to a pro-forma IFRS basis.
The balance sheet for 31 December 2004 in these accounts differs from that in the Transition Document to reflect information now available from the triennial pension fund valuation.
A summary of the impacts of transition to IFRS is included on pages 114 to 117.
The financial statements included in this Annual Report have been prepared and presented under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The groups accounting policies are set out on pages 59 to 69.
New Holding Company On 24 February 2005, the group announced its proposal to implement a corporate reorganisation, by way of a Court-approved scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985, to introduce a new listed holding company for the group, which would acquire the existing group and then implement a reduction of capital to create additional distributable reserves.
A circular detailing the proposed scheme and reduction in capital was sent to shareholders on 26 April 2005 and was subsequently approved by shareholders at an EGM on 26 May 2005.
The Court approved the reduction of capital on 22 June 2005 and it became effective the following day when dealing commenced in the new shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The former holding company was renamed Rentokil Initial 1927 plc.
We have elected to continue to prepare the entity accounts of Rentokil Initial plc, the group holding company, under UK GAAP.
In December 2005, Rentokil Initial plc became the primary obligor for notes previously issued under the former Rentokil Initial 1927 plc EMTN programme.
Rentokil Initial plc Financial Review 27
