Operating and Financial review Welcome to the Operating and Financial review of 2005.
Here I set out and explain operational and strategic issues, along with other matters such as our customers and market trends.
What we do Rexam is one of the worlds top consumer packaging companies and the worlds leading beverage can maker.
We make beverage packaging in metal, glass and plastic, as well as rigid plastic packaging for the beauty, pharmaceutical and food industries around the world.
Market and industry characteristics The global consumer packaging market is currently estimated to be worth around US$370bn with food and beverage packaging accounting for more than two-thirds of that total spend.
Beauty and pharmaceutical packaging each accounts for around 5%.
Long term market growth in consumer packaging is expected to be in the region of 4 5% pa.
Details of the growth rates of our main individual packaging markets are discussed later in this review.
North America and Western Europe show moderate year-on-year increases, while emerging markets are growing at above average rates.
Most of our sales are into the beverage, beauty, pharmaceutical and food markets which are largely non-cyclical.
Typical operating margins for the consumer packaging industry are in the low double digits, with a high degree of sustainability, and this tends to be mirrored in our own case.
In most years we aim, where necessary, to pass on changes in input costs to the customer by adjusting selling prices.
This Lars Emilson, Chief Executive pattern of trading is likely to continue, although recent rapid Global consumer packaging by end use Global consumer packaging growth Food Other 20% Food 52% Beverage Pharma 5% Beauty Beauty 5% Pharma Beverage 18% Other 012 345678 Source: PIRA and Rexam estimates % Growth rates 2005-2009 Source: PIRA and Rexam estimates 16 Operating and Financial review rises in raw material especially aluminium and energy costs will have some short-term impact on profits.
Our competitors Rexam is one of the leading global consumer packaging companies.
In a world of globalisation and consolidation both Packaging trends up and down the value chain, the ability to support customers in Packaging plays a critical part in our daily life.
It not only different regions, to establish economies of scale and to offer a has to protect the contents and facilitate distribution, it also range of packaging systems and materials are just a few of the increasingly has to stand out and shout: Buy me.
As functional essential ingredients needed to become a global packaging needs approach saturation point in many product categories, player.
The industry has undergone a period of consolidation in innovation in design and delivery is becoming a key recent years but still remains fragmented and these top 10 differentiator.
companies only account for around 15% of the global consumer packaging market.
Further consolidation can be anticipated.
Per capita GDP is the main economic driver of packaging demand.
However, a shifting social landscape with more Top 10 consumer packaging companies by 2005 sales single homes and smaller households, an increasingly ageing O I population and a rise in on-the-go consumption, allied to Tetra Pak advances in technology, are creating new opportunities for Crown companies like ours to find innovative ways to satisfy customer Alcan needs.
In addition, consumers increasingly appear to choose Rexam products for their usability or occasion-specific packaging Amcor which helps keep our industry vibrant.
Toyo Seikan Ball Our strategy St Gobain Alcoa Our vision is to become the leading global consumer packaging company.
In recent years our strategy to achieve this has been 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 US$m to bring focus to our operations, consolidate our presence in Source: Company Annual accounts and Rexam estimates.
The a number of niche markets and build positions in faster gures are proforma with Rexam including 2005 and 2006 growth markets.
That transformation has largely been achieved acquisitions.
and we now derive value from strong leadership positions and general economies of scale in beverage cans and glass, and from strengthened global and regional positions in enabling lower cost and better quality.
In our businesses, we cosmetic packaging and pharmaceutical drug delivery systems.
have established frameworks for transfer of best practice to increase our efficiency, drive out costs and improve quality, Going forward, driving growth is a key part of our strategy.
all at an accelerated pace.
We will continue to grow organically using innovation to develop new products and services to enhance our offer to Our customers existing and new customers.
We will also grow by acquisition The vast majority of our sales are made to large international in a variety of high-growth markets and product segments.
household name consumer products companies who are We also continue to explore further consolidation opportunities.
growing their businesses on a global basis.
They are invariably We aim to fund this acquisitive growth using our strong cash world-class organisations requiring consistency of service flow, always with a view to maintaining a strong and efficient and product quality as they become more global and their financial position and optimising long-term shareholder value.
industries continue to consolidate and expand.
At the same time, they are rationalising their supplier base and looking A platform of operational excellence is critical to our strategy.
to align themselves with global partners who understand the This is not simply because it is what our customers need and scale and nature of their business and who can supply their want but also, importantly, efficiency savings contribute needs on a local level.
We must be world class in the way substantially to our profits each year.
Lean Enterprise and Six we deal with them.
In 2005 our top ten customers accounted Sigma-based process improvements continue to raise the bar, for about 60% of our business.
Global consumer packaging growth split by geography Consumer packaging consumption and per capita GDP 500 USA Denmark 400 Japan France Germany 300 Europe UK Spain 200 North America Greece Argentina South America 100 Brazil China Rest of world Russia 10 20 30 40 012 3456789 % Growth rates 2005-2009 Source: PIRA GDP per capita US$k Source: PIRA 17 Packaging spend per capita US$ 2005 Operating and Financial review Group performance in 2005 When discussing our performance, we use what we refer to Sustaining our cost reduction targets as the underlying figures which, we feel, give a better picture Lean Enterprise is embedded into our culture.
It provides the of our ongoing operations.
David Robbie, our Finance Director, framework for a consistent and common approach to continuous improvement which enables our businesses to achieve worldprovides an in-depth financial review on pages 27 to 33. class quality, cost and delivery results.
A centrally driven Lean Enterprise function works across the Group to assist in the In summary, 2005 was another year of good progress for deployment of Lean Enterprise and Six Sigma methodologies in the Group, building on the achievements of 2004.
We saw all our disciplines.
Facilitating cross-business networking, the aim continued growth in sales, underlying profits and earnings is to accelerate learning, secure further synergies and to share, which exclude disposals and other exceptional items.
All develop and adopt best practices.
The successful development of of these benefited from the acquisitions we made in 2004 common problem-solving skills and powerful networks will help in Beverage Cans, Glass and Plastic Packaging.
us to continue to meet our annual cost reduction targets, while enhancing our ability to embrace change and pursue excellence.
Ongoing Group sales were 3.2bn, up from 3.0bn last year.
Our organic sales growth which excludes the impact of acquisitions, disposals and the effects of currency translation Acquisitions and disposals was 5%.
Two per cent of this growth, or 52m, came from In line with our strategy to expand in growth markets, in the the recovery of aluminium price increases in beverage cans, second half of the year we completed the acquisition of two while the remainder was a combination of favourable mix speciality plastic packaging companies for an aggregate and volume changes, mainly in the beverage can business.
consideration of 234m, including borrowings assumed, which is in line with our expected annual spend on in-fill Underlying profit before tax improved 7% from 288m to acquisitions.
These two US businesses, Delta Plastics and 307m.
Including a 9m positive impact of IAS39 financing Precise Technology, strengthen our overall plastic packaging derivative value changes arising in 2005, the increase offering and give us a strong entry platform to the growing was 10%.
healthcare pharmaceutical markets in North America as well as the home and personal care markets.
They also broaden With rising commodity and utility costs in 2005, we faced a our capability for existing customers whom we have been challenging environment in a number of our businesses.
Our supplying mainly in Europe up until now.
In addition to the ongoing focus on cost and efficiency savings, driven by our new sales opportunities expected from broadening our Lean Enterprise and Six Sigma methodologies, ensured that customer relationships, we anticipate synergies in materials we improved underlying operating profit or could mitigate purchasing, plant rationalisation and other areas.
where headwinds were particularly strong.
In May, we divested our UK glass business to Ardagh Glass Underlying earnings per share rose 5% to 39.5p.
Margins for a cash consideration of 48m.
Glass remains part of held firm and free cash flow generation was again excellent, our offering to customers but in this case, with new capacity moving ahead to 248m from 234m last year.
Net borrowings entering the UK market, we decided that divestment was were 1.2bn with interest cover solid at around six times.
the best course of action for a single site operation and the countrys number three player.
The sale of the business On a statutory basis, sales including the effect of acquisitions, incurred an exceptional loss before tax of 25m.
disposed businesses and currency were up 5%.
On this basis, profit before tax including disposals and other Since the end of 2005, continuing our focus on building exceptional items was 331m compared with 275m in positions in emerging markets and in plastic packaging, 2004.
For 2005, there were pre-tax exceptional gains of we have announced three additional acquisitions for a total 15m, mainly arising from the reduction in US retiree consideration of 205m.
These were FangXin, a Chinese medical liabilities offset by the loss on the sale of our UK beauty packaging business: Ecanco, the sole Egyptian glass operation.
The resulting basic earnings per share beverage can maker and Airspray, a Dutch dispensing was 40.4p compared with 36.2p in the previous year.
Average three-month spot price tonne aluminium US$ The acquisitions made in 2005 3,000 enabled us to broaden our offering in growth markets and, with access to the key US market, they gave our 2,000 pharmaceutical packaging business a truly global pro le.
Here, a new product for Rexam, an injectionmoulded, double-walled jar.
The ush 1,000 nish between the jar and closure is typically favoured on aesthetic grounds by personal care product 0 2002 2003 2004 manufacturers.
18 Operating and Financial review Managing our input costs At around 1bn per annum, aluminium is by far our largest raw material cost.
In the Americas, we are largely unaffected by changes in the cost of this commodity as our major customers agree the cost of aluminium in advance with their suppliers.
In Europe, both the metal and the associated US dollar euro currency requirements are hedged, such that input costs are fixed in euros, the principal transaction currency.
These hedges unwind naturally over time and, with the recent steep increase in aluminium prices, we expect to face a more challenging cost climate in 2006.
We have already communicated with customers our intention to pass on the increase in aluminium cost and are confident of pushing this through over the coming months.
The European beverage can operations expenditure on steel is largely covered by long term contracts and we have been little affected by recent price rises in this commodity.
Beverage Cans Beverage cans continue to be a popular form of packaging.
Our glass operations mainly use natural gas to fire their Consumers appreciate the fact that they are lightweight, easy to furnaces and this is an important cost item in glass production.
chill and keep the contents carbonated.
The benefits extend to Recent increases in oil prices have been largely translated the filler and the retailer.
Cans offer easy transportation and into higher bulk gas prices.
Some larger contracts contain storage and are excellent in terms of the effective use of space on supermarket shelves in multi-pack formats which, again, are direct clauses linking energy cost to price, while we aim to popular with consumers.
recover these increases on new glass supply contracts.
In Europe, which is a 40bn per year beverage can market, In the plastic packaging businesses, where resin is the main volumes are growing at a rate of around 4% annually.
The input cost, many sales contracts enable any resin price main growth regions are Denmark, Spain, Portugal, Eastern changes to be passed on to customers, although there may Europe and Russia.
The growth in energy drinks has been a be a time lag.
particularly strong driver in this market.
Beverage Cans North America is the worlds largest market for beverage cans with an annual volume of around 110bn cans.
It is a mature market and is relatively flat in terms of unit growth.
However, 2005 2004 mix changes related to new can sizes and shapes have led to Sales m 2,235 2,069 improved profit opportunities.
Beverage cans account for some Underlying operating pro t m 313 278 65% and 35% of carbonated soft drinks and beer packages respectively.
Return on sales % 14.0 13.4 Brazil is the fourth largest can market in the world with annual The beverage can industry is well consolidated globally and consumption in the region of 10bn cans.
Continued improvement Rexam is the industry leader.
We operate predominantly in in economic conditions is underpinning market growth for North America, South America and Europe.
There are four beverage cans at around 4% pa. players in the US and three significant ones in South America The Chinese market for beverage cans is growing at around and Europe.
Our market share in these regions is about 2% annually.
At present, it consumes more than 6bn two-piece 25%, 60% and 45% respectively.
We have a relatively small beverage cans.
presence in the Far East in China and Korea, which enables us to keep a close track of developments in this region.
In the US, there was strong growth in non-traditional beverage can sizes as well as award-winning innovative re-sealable can packages such as TM Rexams CapCan.
Growth is driven by consumer demand for energy drinks, teas, juices and nutraceuticals among others.
Beverage marketers In 2005, Rexam delivered the 10 billionth are able to achieve higher price beverage can to Red Bull.
We also strengthened points for this package differentiation our longstanding relationship with the company and consumers seem willing to with a multi-year extension to our supply contract.
19 Operating and Financial review Beverage can making is a capital intensive business where remained robust.
We benefited from the conversion to slim profit is dependent on the high utilisation of installed capacity.
can production of the previously mothballed Gelsenkirchen We have limited spare capacity in our operations as we plant in Germany.
work continually to achieve and maintain high levels of utilisation within our facilities.
Plant closures in the US and The European and Asian businesses improved their profitability Brazil and line rationalisation in Europe, as a result of primarily as a result of efficiency savings arising out of efficiency improvements across our operations, demonstrate restructuring conducted in 2004. the extent of this commitment.
In Europe, we are converting more capacity from steel to Beverage Cans had another strong year with reported sales aluminium largely in response to customer demand.
We and underlying operating profit up by 8% and 13% respectively announced line conversions in Turkey and in our plant in on 2004.
The sales improvement includes 52m of passBerlin, Germany, the latter to prepare for the expected through to customers for increased aluminium costs.
In recovery in the German beverage can market.
It is anticipated October 2005, we announced important volume gains in that further investment may be necessary in this market as the the US from 2006 onwards and, while these will depress new deposit legislation comes into effect in May 2006.
We the profitability of our overall beverage can business in the remain closely involved with all stakeholders to support the immediate term, the additional volumes are expected to successful re-launch of the beverage can in this market and strengthen our performance over time.
are confident that beverage cans, especially for beer, will make a strong return to the supermarket shelves.
Our North American can volumes were up by 1% on last year.
The decline in standard can size volumes was more Plastic Packaging than offset by good growth in new can sizes.
Non-standard sizes now account for around 10% of our output.
This 2005 2004 change in mix, along with continued strict cost control, Sales m 571 527 helped compensate for the slight softness in volumes.
Underlying operating profit m 63 74 We also benefited from the 2004 acquisition of the remaining Return on sales % 11.0 14.0 50% of the joint venture in Mexico, the full-year effect of which increased sales by 29m and operating profit by 4m.
Plastic Packaging includes packaging for beauty, personal In South America, our beverage can volumes were up by 8% care and pharmaceutical products, along with closures and as a result of improved economic conditions and gains by containers for food and beverages.
They are grouped the beverage can in its share of the packaging mix.
Brazil together under this single banner because they share common itself showed a 6% volume improvement.
The weakening of technologies and customers across the businesses.
By treating the US dollar against local currencies reduced the improvement them essentially as one operation, we not only provide the in profit on these increased sales owing to higher local currency opportunity for increased sales and sharing of operational costs.
Brazil remains an exciting market and in the second excellence, but we can also expect to benefit from a number half of the year we initiated a 10m investment in a new of synergies, not least in purchasing.
beverage can plant in Cuiab in Mato Grosso, the fastest growing region in Brazil.
The plant will use equipment Rigid plastic packaging is growing faster than many other mothballed when we closed the Jacarei plant in 2005 and areas of packaging at around 6 7% per annum.
It is a we expect it to be operational during 2006. broad area covering many products and our strategy is to find attractive niches where there are high barriers to entry In Europe and Asia, after a slow start to the year, our sales and where we are able to strengthen our relationships with volumes picked up and finished 4% ahead of 2004 and our customers, either by extending our capabilities on both broadly in line with the market.
Eastern Europe continued a geographical or product basis or offering them new ones.
Sales of slim cans, particularly to Red Bull, It is this strategy that drove the acquisition of two US Rexam has pioneered production of co-extruded high-barrier containers in North America where it supplies many major brands and has more than 50% of the market.
In 2005, it was able The award winning novel half pint can for Stella to draw on this experience, Artois is an example of how Rexam supports its transferring its know-how to customers in developing packaging solutions which provide customers in Europe will t into the increasingly complex lives of busy with new opportunities to consumers.
20 Operating and Financial review encouraging performances from a number of our businesses, especially the pharmaceutical packaging operation.
These Rigid plastic packaging were supported by an overall solid performance from our Rigid plastic packaging is a large and diversified market beauty packaging business, despite a general slow down estimated to be worth some US$87bn on a global basis.
Rexam focuses predominantly on packaging for the beauty, personal in the luxury end of the cosmetics market.
The rate of decline care and pharmaceutical markets as well as closures and in volumes of refillable plastic bottles in Germany, mentioned containers for food and beverages.
Industry estimates put growth at the half year, lessened considerably in the second half.
in the global beauty packaging market in the foreseeable future at 3 4% per annum.
The demand for rigid pharmaceutical For the year, operating profit was 63m compared with 74m packaging is expected to grow at 6 7% per annum although in 2004.
The drop was mainly due to significant changes in the demand for some products, such as inhalation devices, is mix in some areas of beauty packaging as well as the volumeexpected to experience double-digit growth.
The plastic closures related price reductions in refillable plastic bottles PET.
There market will grow at more than 4% per annum with sports was also the impact of restructuring costs in Scandinavia as closures in the US expected to grow at a low double-digit rate.
well as delayed recovery of resin price increases in the latter part of the year.
As we were only able to mitigate these factors partially through further operational efficiencies, we experienced a drop in margins from 14% to 11%.
Going forward, we expect profitability to improve before taking into account the positive impact of recent acquisitions.
Refillable PET in Germany returned to its steady state during the second half of 2005: we will recover the pass-through in resin prices and performance in the beauty business is expected to improve.
Glass 2005 2004 Sales m 405 380 Underlying operating profit m 36 34 Return on sales % 8.9 8.9 companies in 2005, discussed earlier, and the two further acquisitions since the year end.
Plastic Packaging now Rexam is the second largest glass packaging manufacturer in accounts for about 20% of Rexams total sales going northern Europe.
We provide leading international and regional forward.
beverage and food brands with the expertise to exploit new packaging solutions.
In all, we have 13 glassworks located in Although we are still building our Plastic Packaging business, northern Europe, which remains the focus of our operations.
we have good positions in both developed and emerging 2005 was a challenging year for the European glass industry markets.
Exports of packaging from emerging countries as a whole, especially in the second half.
Despite furnace and continue to grow.
We also see growth in the export of filled line closures in recent years, in which we have participated, products.
Added to that, there is a fast-growing local demand the market has some overcapacity although recent moves are for beauty products in countries such as Brazil and China starting to redress this situation.
where we have strengthened our positions.
Sales, excluding the UK glass business sold in May, increased In 2005, sales in Plastic Packaging grew overall by 8% to 7% to 405m.
Our organic sales growth was 4%.
Organic sales growth was 3%, which owes much to were encouraging sales price increases but we also saw Another first for Rexam a metal tube dipped into a fragrance without impairing the fragrances colouring or its composition over time.
The stylish stainless steel tube conceals a Rexam pump kit which is supplied Rexam acquired Precise Technology, the US based pre-assembled.
This offers injection moulder, at the end of 2005 to broaden real customer bene ts, its offering in Plastic Packaging.
In this photo, the streamlining product supply two--shot moulding and metalised covers provide and optimising productivity a distinctive look to Colgate Palmolives newly on packing and lling lines.
21 Operating and Financial review lower volumes in the food market and some adverse changes in product mix, particularly in Germany.
Underlying operating profit at 36m was slightly up on last year.
We were hit hard by the surge in energy costs which further impacted distribution costs.
This development came too late in the year and against fixed contracted prices to be fully recovered.
Cost reductions tempered the impact but we were unable to offset the effects fully.
We expect the ongoing high energy cost rates to continue to affect our Glass results in the short term, although we anticipate reducing the cost pressures by sales price increases and further efficiency savings.
The plants acquired during 2004 in the Netherlands and Poland were integrated well and helped strengthen relationships with one of our key customers, Heineken.
During the year we moved the headquarters of the business from the UK to Germany, which forms the base of our glass operation and contributes half of our Glass sales.
Overall, the return on sales held firm with savings realised from restructuring in 2004 helping to mitigate cost increases.
Summary of the year In 2005, we improved results and maintained profit margins Glass overall despite increasing input cost pressures in the second Glass is an important packaging material because it remains the half, reporting good organic growth especially in Beverage preferred choice for premium products and provides unique Cans.
We continued to generate strong efficiency savings, brand differentiation.
Glass tends to become an inherent part of increase our presence in higher growth plastics and emerging a products values and the two become inseparable in markets and build further on our market leading positions by consumers minds.
Just think of the number of instantly delivering innovative solutions to our customers.
recognisable glass containers from the Coke bottle to the Marmite jar.
The wide range of colours and forms and decorative possibilities, from embossing to satin etching, creates distinctive, memorable packaging adding value and differentiation to brands.
While the inertness of glass provides properties that protect and preserve naturally, its tactile nature and quality feel help create a natural affinity with consumers.
Because it is recyclable, people also feel that by using glass they are contributing to a better Lars Emilson, Chief Executive environment.
22 February 2006 The European glass market as a whole is relatively flat, although there are some stronger pockets of growth especially in eastern Europe.
Rexam has supplied the Absolut brand since it was first launched in 1979.
We have continuously invested in the partnership, The new bottle for Xider, a Carlsberg expanding our facilities and installing new brand.
The vibrant colours of the product decorating technology to help ensure that are enhanced by the clear glass and Absolut remains a premium, innovative brand in embossing to bring stand-out appeal on the global market.
the supermarket shelf or behind the bar.
22 Operating and Financial review Acting responsibly in all that we do As one of the worlds leading consumer packaging companies, we acknowledge our responsibilities towards society and the environment as well as our shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers.
We are committed to managing our business in a sustainable Our aim is to ensure that the policies are rolled out and built manner.
We have had environmental management programmes into the daily management of our businesses.
In 2005, we in place since 1990 and policies on health, safety and the continued to develop these policies to ensure they remain environment since 1991.
We published our first Corporate relevant and compliant.
We launched our worldwide Code Responsibility CR report in 2003 and have a section of Employee and Business Conduct across the Group.
The dedicated to this on our web site.
Code acts as an umbrella to the policies and procedures already in place and lays down fundamental expectations.
We adopt a risk-based approach to CR activities and have It also gives guidance as to how our people should deal with worked with our own, as well as external, specialists to identify various situations and where they can go for more detailed the most relevant issues so that we develop practical solutions guidance.
and integrate them into our core management procedures.
Integrating CR issues into line management During 2005, we identified a clear set of issues to form the Our aim is to treat CR issues as an integral part of the day-tobasis for our CR programme going forward.
They fall under day responsibilities of line managers.
We have run a number four main headings: of pilot programmes to understand how this could be achieved.
Our CR programme in China has been running Business procedures since 2003 and, although tightly focused on a small number Environmental protection of issues, it has given us important lessons that are forming Workplace environment and human rights the basis for the roll-out of uniform CR practices across the Community well-being and development rest of the Group.
The following section is structured around these four key In September 2005, the Human Resources directors of issues.
The latest detailed information on each issue is each of our businesses were briefed on the results of the contained on our web site.
Plans for a roll-out of similar programmes, along with associated training needs, are now being drawn up in each business for 2006. Business procedures Rexam has well established policies within its business that Managing health and safety provide guidance to our employees on a wide range of As a Group, we are committed to ensuring the well-being of issues.
They are governed by what we term The Rexam Way, our employees and view this as a vital and integral part of which affects every area of our business, from manufacturing, the day-to-day operation of our businesses.
This commitment marketing and information technology, to human resources includes ensuring that suitable measures are in place to and sales.
It also provides the framework and direction for all prevent foreseeable personal illness or injury.
Our vision is to be the leading global consumer packaging The Rexam Responsible Sourcing company.
The Rexam Way gives handbook was published at the end us a competitive advantage and of 2005.
It provides comprehensive is the means by which we will turn guidance to all employees who deal our vision into reality.
The Rexam with suppliers, including an overview Way is built on four core values: of the entire sourcing programme and Trust, Teamwork, Continuous step-by-step instructions on how to Improvement and Recognition.
23 23 The Rexam responsible i, i 7 sourcing }}ii}}ii Vii6 handbook Operating and Financial review All our sites use the Rexam health and safety audit protocol based on the requirements of OHSAS 18001 management systems.
Audits are carried out by external third parties and go beyond the requirements of the standard.
Managing the supply chain Rexam uses over 30,000 suppliers globally.
In 2003 we created and implemented a formal CR programme designed to develop a systematic approach to CR in our supply chain.
In 2004, we developed this programme further with a focus on high-impact and high-risk suppliers.
At the beginning of 2005 we re-evaluated all our existing CR initiatives.
This resulted in a more extensive CR programme and a realisation of the additional tools and training that would be required to roll this out.
The aim of our new Responsible Sourcing Programme is to provide our employees with the appropriate information and tools to enable them to take informed decisions on the issues associated with each of our purchases and to engage suppliers Reducing the environmental impact of our operations in the appropriate improvement activities, where required.
The aluminium beverage can is our most important product by far.
The programme and tools are all web-based and largely self We are constantly looking at ways of reducing the impact of the informing, which means we can roll them out globally to manufacturing process.
We make more than 50bn cans a year, employees without the need of extensive travel or time taken so any single improvement will be multiplied many times over.
away from activities for training.
In the past twenty years, the weight of a typical 33cl 12oz aluminium beverage can has dropped 32%, from 18.6g to While there is still room for improvement, our supply chain team 12.7g, with a corresponding drop in raw material usage is committed to supporting global improvement programmes and facilitating positive social and environmental change.
Substitution of the solvent-based lacquers with water-based alternatives has reduced solvents and volatile organic Environmental Management Systems compounds containing materials to approximately 0.01 tonnes We encourage all our plants to strive towards an Environmental per tonne of production.
Management System EMS based on the requirements of ISO 14001, which has been verified by an independent third party.
Process upgrades and improvements in the aluminium preAs can be seen from the table below, which includes recent treatment processes have achieved an overall reduction in the acquisitions, we made further progress towards achieving our use of etching agents and acid chemicals, resulting in reductions in waste water treatment loading and treatment requirements target in 2005.
3 to 1.5 m per tonne of production.
Environmental protection Through the introduction of vegetable-based emulsified We use a series of key indicators to measure our performance lubrication oils, we have eliminated the need to use kerosenewith regard to environmental protection.
These are based on based lubricants.
industry and stakeholder expectations and an understanding of our operations and areas of greatest emissions.
Recycling 1kg of aluminium saves 8kg of bauxite, 44g of chemicals and 14Kwh of electricity.
In 2005, we used our proprietary Rexam Audit System intranet tool to collect environmental data from all our Resource consumption Progress towards ISO 14001 certi cation Raw material tonnes tonnes of production 100 1.75 75 50 1.50 25 1.25 0 04 05 04 05 04 05 04 05 Metal Plastics Glass Group 1.00 03 04 05 03 04 05 03 04 05 Our glass operations are largely certi ed as are our beverage can operations Metal Plastics Glass in Europe and South America.
The North American bevarage can operations will be implementing an EMS based on ISO 14001 in 2006.
During 2005, our plastic packaging businesses in Asia started work to achieve ISO 14001 24 with a target of certi cation by 2008.
Operating and Financial review manufacturing sites.
We have seen reductions across all key indicators when comparing on a like-for-like basis.
Waste reduction programmes are a high priority for Rexam.
Through our Lean Enterprise programme we have continued to reduce the amounts of process waste being created per tonne of production.
We continue to strive to recycle as much of our waste as possible and 2005 saw a slight increase in the recycling levels.
Our operations produce a range of air emissions including carbon dioxide, particulates, nitrous oxide and volatile organic compounds.
Volumes of these elements measured per tonne of production continue to fall year on year.
When it comes to energy, we set annual targets to reduce Driving Continuous Improvement and Teamwork consumption.
This key indicator is defined as all energy The aim of the Rexam Way Impact Program is to raise our consumed by our operations during the year in the form performance by getting the best from empowered teams.
It of electricity, from renewable and non-renewable sources, supports the core values of Continuous Improvement and Teamwork and complements our Lean Enterprise, quality natural gas, LPG and diesel oil.
Water is not consumed in large quantities in our processes: the water that we do use is predominately used in close Built around a series of workshops and follow-up action plans, it looped systems and all water that is discharged is treated helps us better understand our behaviour and how it impacts on to local and national standards prior to release.
It identifies how we can do things differently and align our actions with the Rexam core values.
The Workplace environment and human rights program was developed in close consultation with operational The health and safety of our employees, or anyone visiting people to ensure it is directly relevant to their day-to-day working our plants or offices, is a top priority.
Our health and safety lives.
To date, some 1,000 managers and their teams have been through the program.
This was not achieved in 2005 but we have seen a drop in reported incidents.
We actively In the words of one plant manager, following an Impact encourage and monitor the reporting of injuries.
As part of workshop: We are seeing better overlap between shifts.
I have our safety culture, each business is required to enter details seen our supervisors having constructive discussions with of all health and safety incidents online.
The incidents are employees, before and after their shifts, and silos between then reviewed and programmes put in place to redress the departments are being reduced.
Overall, the program has related risks.
clearly helped us through the rapid change we are experiencing.
The general accident trend is downward and the rolling 12- month total number of days lost per year has reduced from 6,380 in 2004 to 4,974, which is less than 1% of all the days worked in the Group.
Developing our leaders and teams In 2005, we ran The Rexam Way Impact Program as a To ensure that the Environmental Health and Safety EHS means to raise performance further and support the programmes are focused and relevant we have a working behaviours called for by The Rexam Way, our long-standing group comprising representatives of our main businesses.
Whilst the program is They meet regularly to determine the scope, content and centred on the behaviour of leaders and teams, it also format of our EHS audit protocols, training programmes and provides a set of practical tools that can be readily used support system requirements.
Lost time accident rate per 100 employees year 2005 Energy consumption Energy Kwh tonne of production 10 Industry rate Industry rate Industry rate 8 16,000 6 12,000 4 8,000 2 4,000 0 04 05 04 05 04 05 Metal Plastics Glass 0 Based on the US Labor Statistics Data 2004 and 2005.
We adopt a more 03 04 05 03 04 05 03 04 05 stringent lost time measurement rate than the rest of our industry.
The Rexam Metal Plastics Glass fide nition of a lost time injury includes lost and restricted time covering 1 shift.
25 Operating and Financial review During the year, some 1,000 people managers and their business produces its own magazine or newsletter at regular teams attended the program.
Each team is expected to intervals to keep its employees updated with developments in publish a plan of action outlining the integration of specific their own particular area and, as a complement, we also behaviours based on our four core values.
The objective is to produce a Group-wide magazine in 15 languages.
identify where measurable performance improvement can be achieved through the introduction of new ways of working.
In addition, Rexam has an award-winning internet site, which is an immediate source of information and knowledge.
We Communicating with employees are in the process of improving our global intranet following Communication plays a central role in Rexam.
The Chief Executive also issues regular that our employees emotional commitment to their job and on-line bulletins on the state of the Group.
organisation has a significant impact on their discretionary effort.
Keeping employees well informed and creating Diversity and inclusion understanding of how they are contributing to overall In 2005, we began to assess diversity and inclusion among progress are essential in this respect.
There is a strong body of evidence that shows that diverse and inclusive companies perform better than those We provide quarterly team briefings at each plant or office that do not address these issues.
We have collated data where employees are encouraged to participate and give looking at the gender split amongst our top five management their views on any aspect of the Groups business.
Each grades see below in each of the countries where we have operations.
We also plan to collect ethnicity data.
We recognise that females are under-represented at senior level in our organisation and are committed to recruiting and promoting appropriately qualified women.
Community well-being and development Our businesses are often major employers in their local areas.
The communities that surround our plants are vital to the success of our operations at a local level.
Frequently, it is in these communities that our workforce lives and their acceptance of our activities is what, in the final analysis, provides us with our licence to operate.
Management teams are encouraged to invest in local charities, voluntary groups and other suitable initiatives.
We do not have a centralised sponsorship programme.
Instead, we encourage our staff to participate in whatever activities local people consider most important.
This includes work with local charities, voluntary groups and other initiatives.
The result is a wide range of community action initiatives that strengthen the links between Rexam and the communities in which it operates.
In September 2005, the American Gulf coast, and particularly the city of New Orleans, was devastated by Hurricane Katrina.
In 2005, as a Group, we contributed to the Tsunami relief, Such was the damage, that even basic services were destroyed, allocating funds specifically to the rehabilitation of Indonesia, including the water supply.
Partnering with Coca-Cola, Rexam donated 10m beverage cans from our Olive Branch plant in the where we have two plants.
We continued to make contributions US.
The cans were filled with water and shipped to hurricane to the Princes Trust and the UK-based Occupational Health victims.
In addition we made a cash donation to the relief effort Research Foundation BOHRF along with other charities and matched contributions made by our employees to the charity where we matched employees fund-raising efforts.
Diversity in senior management 2005 Management grade Worldwide Females % Females 1 11 00% Rexams internet site has won 2 64 46% many prestigious accolades, 3 192147% among others for its Investor Relations section.
It is the first 4 4718217% port of call for anyone wanting 5 1,14123421% to nd out more about the Total 1,879 334 18% Group.
26 Operating and Financial review The discussion of the results set out in the sections of this Financial review is based on the first column of the table below, Underlying business performance.
It is felt that by adjusting for gains losses on disposals and other exceptional items, the underlying figures provide a better indication of the Groups performance.
The disposals and other exceptional items are considered separately to provide a full explanation of the total statutory results.
David Robbie, Finance Director Group financial performance Underlying business Disposals and other Total performance exceptional items statutory m m m 2005: Sales 3,237 - 3,237 Operating pro t 409 11 420 Share of post tax pro ts of associates and joint ventures 347 Total net finance cost 96 - 96 Pro t before tax 316 15 331 Pro t loss after tax 224 1 223 Basic earnings per share p 40.4 Underlying earnings per share p 40.6 Interim dividend per share p 7.52 Proposed final dividend per share p 10.6 2004: Sales 3,081 - 3,081 Operating pro t 389 18 371 Share of post tax pro ts of associates and joint ventures 1 - 1 Total net finance cost 97 - 97 Preference dividends 5 - 5 Pro t loss before tax 288 18 270 Pro t loss after tax 206 7 199 Basic earnings per share p 36.2 Underlying earnings per share p 37.5 Interim and final dividends per share p 17.25 Underlying business performance is the primary performance measure used by management, as it is believed that exclusion of gain loss on disposal of businesses and other exceptional items aids comparison of underlying performance.
Disposals and other exceptional items include the gain loss on disposal of businesses and land, recognition of deferred tax assets on prior year acquisitions, major restructuring costs together with related asset impairments and credits arising on the reduction of US retiree medical provisions.
Total net finance cost and underlying pro t before tax in 2005 includes a net gain of 9m 2004: nil arising under IAS39 on fair value changes on derivatives relating to nancing activities.
IAS32 has been adopted with effect from 1 January 2005 without the requirement to restate prior periods.
Under IAS32 preference dividends are included in total net finance cost.
For comparison purposes, underlying business performance in 2004 has been adjusted to include preference dividends.
27 Operating and Financial review A summary of underlying business performance is set out Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of below.
acquisitions, disposals and currency, was 157m, an 2005 2004 increase of 5%.
A significant portion of this growth, 127m, m m Increase arises in Beverage Cans up 6% on their own performance, Ongoing operations 3,211 2,976 8% of which 52m can be attributed to the recovery of aluminium Disposed businesses 26 105 price increases and 75m to volume and mix gains.
The Sales 3,237 3,081 increase in Plastic Packaging and Glass was predominantly from improvements in volume.
Ongoing operations 412 386 7% Disposed businesses 3 3 Analysis of underlying operating pro t movement Underlying operating pro t 409 389 5% Share of post tax pro ts associates Beverage and joint ventures 3 1 Total Cans Plastics Glass m m m m Net finance cost 105 102 Underlying operating pro t Underlying pro t before tax and reported 2004 389 nancing derivatives 307 288 7% Disposals 2004 and 2005 3 Financing derivative fair value changes 9 - Ongoing operations 2004 Underlying pro t before tax 316 288 10% reported in 2005 386 278 74 34 Acquisitions 2004 6 4 2 - Underlying pro t after tax 224 206 9% Currency uctuations 4211 Underlying earnings per share p : Ongoing operations 2004 pro forma basis 396 284 77 35 Before nancing derivatives fair value changes 39.5 37.5 5% Acquisitions 2005 2 - 2 - Including nancing derivatives Acquisition related intangibles fair value changes 40.6 37.5 8% amortisation 1 - 1 - Improvement reduction in Includes interest 71m 2004: 65m, retirement benefit operating pro t 15 29 15 1 Ongoing operations obligations net finance cost 29m 2004: 32m and preference reported 2005 412 313 63 36 dividends 5m 2004: 5m.
As noted above, 2004 has been Disposals 2005 3 adjusted to include preference dividends of 5m.
Underlying operating pro t reported 2005 409 Sales and underlying operating profit benefited from acquisitions completed in 2004 and 2005, predominantly in Beverage Analysis of the improvement reduction in operating pro t: Cans and Plastic Packaging and, to a lesser extent, favourable Beverage currency fluctuations.
The challenges set by rising raw material Total Cans Plastics Glass and energy costs have been met by the continued focus on m m m m cost and efficiency savings together with improvements in Price changes 61 52 7 2 volume.
Including the net 9m gain arising on IAS39 Cost changes 108 78 21 9 financing derivatives, underlying profit before tax improved Price and cost changes 47 26 14 7 Volume mix changes 27 34 9 2 by 28m 10% to 316m.
The net gain arising on financing Ef ciency and other savings 35 21 8 6 derivatives is further explained in Total net finance cost and 15 29 15 1 Financial risk management below.
The improvement in underlying operating profit, after reflecting Analysis of sales movement the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency, was Beverage Total Cans Plastics Glass 15m 4%.
This was attributable to efficiency savings and m m m m volume improvements in Beverage Cans, which offset the Sales reported 2004 3,081 impact of cost increases across all business segments.
Most Disposals 2004 and 2005 105 of the increase in input costs was recovered through pricing, Ongoing operations 2004 however it was difficult to recoup other cost increases, mainly reported in 2005 2,976 2,069 527 380 energy and distribution, against a backdrop of rising raw Acquisitions 2004 39 29 6 4 material prices.
These costs were covered by the ongoing Currency uctuations 22 10 6 6 focus on efficiency savings and on securing additional Ongoing operations 2004 pro forma basis 3,037 2,108 539 390 volumes.
As announced in October 2005, significant volume Acquisitions 2005 17 - 17 - has been obtained in the US beverage can business.
Organic sales growth 157 127 15 15 Ongoing operations Plastic Packaging experienced mixed fortunes during the reported 2005 3,211 2,235 571 405 year.
There were encouraging volume gains in the higher Disposals 2005 26 margin pharmaceutical and US food plastics businesses as Sales reported 2005 3,237 well as increases in the lotion pumps business.
However, 28 Operating and Financial review Retirement bene ts these were not sufficient to offset the impact of price A detailed analysis of retirement benefits is set out in Note competition in other beauty products and volume-related 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
price reductions in refillable plastic bottles.
Profits were further affected by restructuring costs and the lag in The analysis of the retirement benefit obligations net finance recovering resin prices.
cost is as follows: Encouragingly, Glass achieved some price increases during 2005 2004 the year but they were not sufficient to cover the dramatic m m rise in energy costs.
Efficiency saving, realised mainly from fide ned bene t pension plans: our prompt response to capacity issues, and some volume Expected return on plan assets 125 119 gains compensated for the under recovery of cost increases.
Interest on plan liabilities 138 135 13 16 Under IFRS, intangible assets, such as patents and customer Retiree medical interest on liabilities 16 16 contracts, are required to be recognised on acquisition and Net finance cost 29 32 amortised over their useful life.
In 2005, the amortisation charge on such items was 1m.
It is anticipated that this Changes to the actuarial value of retirement benefits at the charge will increase substantially in 2006 as the full year balance sheet date are shown in the consolidated statement impact of recent acquisitions is reflected.
of recognised income and expense.
These changes reduced equity by 8m in 2005 as follows: Exchange rates The principal exchange rates used to translate the income m m statement and balance sheet are set out in Note 1 to the fide ned bene t plans: consolidated financial statements.
Plan assets returns higher than expected 145 Plan liabilities experience gains 39 Plan liabilities principally lower Consolidated income statement discount rates 204 The US dollar and the euro are the principal currencies that 20 impact our results.
During the year both currencies marginally Retiree medical: strengthened against sterling.
The net effect of currency Plan liabilities experience gains 8 translation caused sales and underlying operating profit to Actuarial losses before tax 12 be increased by 22m and 4m respectively.
The effect on Tax 4 aluminium purchasing, which is priced in US dollars, for Actuarial losses after tax 8 products sold in euros in Europe, was minimal as most of the exposure was hedged.
During the year the Group implemented revisions to its obligations in respect of retiree medical benefits for certain The movement in exchange rates had the following impact on employees in the US, which reduced liabilities by 46m.
The translation into sterling for reported sales and underlying Group is seeking to extend these revisions to other employees, operating profit in 2005: which, if successful, would generate a further substantial reduction in liabilities.
Underlying operating The total cash payments in respect of retirement benefits are Sales pro t m m as follows: US dollar 10 2 Euro 61 2005 2004 m m Other currencies 61 fide ned bene t pension plans 26 23 Total 22 4 Other pension plans 4 4 Retiree medical 18 20 Consolidated balance sheet Total cash payments 48 47 Most of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars and euros.
Currency movements in the year had a Cash payments to defined benefit pension plans increased as minimal impact, increasing net borrowings by 29m, due a result of a higher rate of contribution to the UK plan.
Based principally to the US dollar where the exchange rate moved on current actuarial projections, it is expected that cash from 1: $1.93 at 31 December 2004 to 1: $1.74 at contributions to defined benefit pension plans will rise by 31 December 2005.
Changes in exchange rates also approximately 20m in 2006. increased equity by 26m.
29 Operating and Financial review Total net finance cost of tax incentives which are available in some territories.
It is The total net finance cost comprises: currently anticipated that the charge will be around 31% in 2005 2004 2006, reflecting an anticipated reduction in the benefits from m m the use of tax losses and similar credits.
Thereafter the rate is Net interest excluding preference dividends 71 65 expected to rise modestly.
Preference dividends 5 - Net gain on nancing derivatives 9 - Tax payments in the year were 47m compared with 54m last Retirement bene t obligations net finance cost 29 32 year.
Payments in 2005 were reduced by repayments received, Total net finance cost as reported 96 97 following the settlement of prior year tax claims, and by the Preference dividends 5 utilisation of tax losses.
It is expected that the cash tax paid in Total net finance cost including preference dividends 102 2006 will rise to between 65% and 75% of the tax charge in IAS32 has been adopted with effect from 1 January 2005 without the consolidated income statement, as tax losses are utilised, the requirement to restate prior periods.
Under IAS32, the convertible and will be higher subsequently.
preference shares are allocated between their liability and equity components and the dividends thereon included in net finance cost.
Disposals and other exceptional items The disposals and other exceptional items arising in 2005 Interest were as follows: In total, adjusting for the net gain on financing derivatives, m retirement benefit obligations net finance cost and preference Loss on disposal of subsidiary 25 Pro t on disposal of associate 4 dividends, net interest cost increased by 6m compared with Pro t on disposal of land 5 the prior year.
Interest, excluding preference dividends, was Recognition of deferred tax assets on prior higher primarily due to banks exercising options to cancel year acquisitions 7 fixed to floating interest rate swaps relating to the euro 550m Restructuring costs, including asset impairment 7 MTN and replacing them with swaps at current rates.
The Retiree medical prior service credit net of legal costs 45 average interest rate during the year was 6.2% 2004: 5.3%.
Total disposals and other exceptional items before tax 15 Tax 16 Interest cover was slightly below 6 times underlying operating Total disposals and other exceptional items after tax 1 profit, which is in keeping with the Groups long term parameter to maintain interest cover comfortably above 4 The loss on the disposal of subsidiary relates to the sale of times.
Interest cover is based on underlying operating profit the UK glass business.
The UK glass market was an over and net finance cost excluding the charges in respect of supplied market and was facing the additional challenge of retirement benefit obligations, preference dividends and net new capacity being introduced.
In these circumstances it was gain on financing derivatives.
felt that, as Rexam in the UK was a single site operation and the number three player, divestment was the best option.
The Derivative financial instruments profit on disposal of an associate relates to the sale of the The fair value of the derivatives arising on financing activities Groups interest in Interprint, a non core printing business.
directly relates to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
In addition, their fair value will change The recognition of deferred tax assets on prior year acquisitions as the transactions to which they relate mature, as new relates to the utilisation of tax losses on acquired businesses derivatives are transacted and due to the passage of time.
that were not required to be recorded, based on the then The fair value change on financing derivatives, included in prevailing assumptions as to future utilisation, at the acquisition net finance costs, for the year to 31 December 2005 was a date.
Under IFRS, the subsequent recognition gives rise to a net gain of 9m 2004: nil.
reduction in goodwill and a corresponding charge to the income statement.
This is reported within other exceptional The impact of derivatives arising on trading items such as items due to its size and largely transitory nature.
commodities and forward foreign exchange contracts is reported within underlying operating profit.
The restructuring cost arises in the European beverage can operation following conversion of two of its plants in Germany Tax and one in Turkey from steel to aluminium can production.
The tax charge for the year was 92m 29% 2004: 82m These conversions were in response to the resolution of the 28% on profit before disposals and other exceptional deposit legislation situation in Germany and also to reflect items.
The Group operates in a number of territories where customer requirements in both territories.
the statutory rate of tax on profits is higher than the UK standard rate.
The Group is able to mitigate this to some The credit, net of legal expenses, arising on US retiree medical extent by structuring its activities in order to take advantage obligations is discussed under Retirement benefits above.
The tax charge of 16m arises principally on this credit.
30 Operating and Financial review Earnings per share Capital expenditure Underlying earnings per share, before the net gain on Gross cash capital expenditure was 176m, just above financing derivatives, disposals and other exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation.
This reflects the need to balance increased from 37.5p to 39.5p, an increase of 5%.
This capacity with demand in a number of business areas, whilst increase was achieved despite an increase in the tax rate being alert to growth opportunities as they emerge.
It is and a higher average number of shares in issue.
The increase anticipated that capital expenditure in 2006 will be within in underlying earnings per share including the net gain on the range of 1.0 to 1.2 times depreciation and amortisation, financing derivatives was 8%.
depending on the timing of projects and the availability of growth opportunities.
The basic earnings per share for 2005 was 40.4p per share 2004: 36.2p.
In 2005 this includes the exceptional profits 2005 2004 and losses arising from the sale of a subsidiary, an associate Capital expenditure gross m 176 174 and land, the recognition of deferred tax assets on prior year Depreciation and amortisation m 171 178 Ratio times 1.03 0.98 acquisitions and retiree medical prior service cost credit.
Capital expenditure includes amounts expensed on computer 2005 2004 software.
Amortisation excludes 1m 2004: nil amortised on Underlying earnings per share p : patents, customer contracts and intangibles other than software.
Before net gain on nancing derivatives 39.5 37.5 Including net gain on nancing derivatives 40.6 37.5 The total profit realised on sale of property, plant and Basic earnings per share p 40.4 36.2 equipment during the year was 7m 2004: loss 2m of which Average number of shares millions 551.8 546.8 5m related to the sale of land included in other exceptional items and the remaining net 2m included a 5m gain on the Cash ow sale of pallets in the Beverage Cans and Glass businesses.
Free cash flow was 248m compared with 234m in 2004.
This 6% rise is largely due to an improvement in operating Acquisitions and disposals profit and a reduction in net finance cost due to the cancellation Expenditure on acquisitions, including borrowings assumed, in 2005 of certain interest rate swaps, offsetting a small totalled 235m as set out below: increase in working capital.
m 2005 2004 Precise Technology 146 m m Delta Plastics 88 Underlying operating pro t 409 389 Other 1 Depreciation and amortisation 172 178 235 Retirement bene t obligations 20 22 Change in working capital 36 11 The principal transactions were in Plastic Packaging with the Capital expenditure net 161 166 acquisition of Delta Plastics in September 2005 and Precise Net finance costs and tax 104 118 Technology in December 2005.
These acquisitions were All other movements 12 16 pursuant to the strategy to grow the Plastic Packaging business, Free cash ow 248 234 to enhance product offering and to participate in growth Equity dividends 97 92 areas such as the North American pharmaceutical and Business cash ow 151 142 healthcare markets.
Acquisitions 235 100 Disposals 58 13 Further acquisitions have been announced in 2006.
The Cash ow including borrowings acquired and disposed 26 55 FangXin beauty packaging business based in China, further Non cash movements 35 46 expanding the Plastic Packaging business: Ecanco, an Egyptian Share capital changes 6 8 beverage can operation and Airspray, a Dutch dispensing Adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 97 - systems manufacturer.
All of these strengthen our presence in Net borrowings at the beginning of the year 1,068 1,177 higher growth and emerging markets.
Net borrowings at the end of the year 1,220 1,068 The principal disposals were the sale of the UK glass business Includes net borrowings acquired of 129m 2004: 45m for 48m, including borrowings disposed and costs, and the Includes net borrowings disposed of 43m 2004: 3m 50% interest in Interprint, a non core printing business, for Includes the liability element of convertible preference shares, 10m.
interest accruals, fair value adjustments to medium term notes and financial derivatives other than the principal amounts of Dividend and dividend policy cross currency swaps.
IAS32 and IAS39 were adopted on This year the Board is recommending a final dividend of 1 January 2005 without the requirement to restate 2004.
10.6p per share bringing the total dividend for the year to 31 Operating and Financial review 18.12p per share, an increase of 5%.
This is in line with Derivative financial instruments comprise instruments relating Rexams ongoing policy to increase the dividend payout by to net borrowings eg cross currency and interest rate swaps about 5% per annum, assuming that the financial resources and those related to other business transactions eg forward are available and that earnings growth continues as expected.
commodity and forward foreign exchange deals.
All these instruments are required, with effect from 1 January 2005, Balance sheet and borrowings under IAS32 and IAS39, to be reflected on the balance The adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 on 1 January 2005, sheet, as illustrated below.
without the requirement to restate 2004, means that it is As at As at more meaningful to compare the balance sheet at 31.12.05 1.1.
05 31 December 2005 with that at 1 January 2005. m m Cross currency swaps 74 123 As at As at Interest rate swaps - 3 31.12.05 1.1.
05 m m Derivative financial instruments included Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,514 1,292 in net borrowings 74 126 Property, plant and equipment 1,174 1,157 Other derivative financial instruments 41 9 Retirement bene ts net of tax 548 538 Total derivative financial instruments 115 135 Other net assets 89 80 2,229 1,991 The reduction in cross currency swaps can be mainly attributed to the strengthening of the US dollar.
The increase Equity 1,009 826 in other derivatives is due principally to the increase in Net borrowings 1,220 1,165 aluminium prices during 2005.
2,229 1,991 Financial risk management Return on invested capital % 14.8 14.6 Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound Interest cover times 5.8 6.0 economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Gearing % 121 141 Net borrowings comprise borrowings, the liability element of Derivative and other financial instruments are used to manage convertible preference shares 70m, cash and cash equivalents trading exposures, liabilities and assets under parameters and certain derivative financial instruments.
laid down by the Rexam Board, which are monitored by its Underlying operating profit plus share of associates profit after Finance Committee.
The Groups major hedging activities are tax divided by the average of opening and closing of each to mitigate the following risks: of net borrowings and equity after adding back retirement i Commodity price and currency transaction risks for benefit obligations net of deferred tax and goodwill previously aluminium purchases made by its European beverage written off against equity under UK GAAP.
Based on underlying operating profit and total net finance cost ii Fair value and cash flow interest rate risks associated excluding retirement benefit obligations net finance cost, the with the medium term notes.
net gain arising on financing derivatives and preference iii Currency translation risks of net assets in overseas dividends.
Based on net borrowings divided by equity.
The Group has not used derivative financial instruments for purposes other than for hedging its exposures.
The reporting of borrowings under IFRS includes the liability element of convertible preference shares, interest accruals The Group adopted accounting standard IAS39 on and certain financial derivatives.
These changes are 1 January 2005, resulting in the recognition at fair value of illustrated below.
all derivative financial instruments previously held off balance sheet under UK GAAP.
To avoid income statement volatility, As at As at and where such benefits outweigh the costs of compliance, 31.12.05 1.1.
05 the Group has designated many of its economic hedges as m m hedging instruments under IAS39.
However, for certain effective Net borrowings 1,294 1,291 economic hedging relationships such hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments 74 126 treatment is not permitted under IFRS.
Where hedge accounting Net borrowings as reported 1,220 1,165 is not achieved, fair value movements on derivatives are Adjustments arising on the adoption of IAS32 and IAS39: recorded in the consolidated income statement which could Liability element of convertible preference shares 70 give rise to earnings volatility.
In 2005, this resulted in a net Derivative financial instruments and other adjustments 27 gain of 9m on financing derivatives: comprising a 5m As reported under IFRS at 31 December 2004 1,068 gain on US dollar interest rate swaps, a 6m gain on offsetting euro interest rate swaps and a 2m loss on other cross currency swaps.
32 Operating and Financial review It is the Groups policy to maintain a range of maturity dates for its borrowings, and to refinance them at the appropriate time so as to reduce refinancing risk.
The issue of longer term borrowings through the Medium Term Note MTN programme is a key element of the Groups debt and financial risk management process.
Fixed rate MTNs, in sterling and euros, were issued in 2002 and, simultaneous to issue, were swapped into floating rate euros and US dollars.
Additional smaller private issues of MTNs have been made, mostly at floating rates, to fit into the Groups funding profile.
This has enabled the Group to continue to manage the fixed to floating rate proportion of its borrowings and the duration of the fixed rate borrowings independently of the sourcing of the funding.
In line with this policy, the Group is intending to offer to exchange some or all of its existing euro 550m MTNs, due in March 2007, for a new issue of MTNs with a longer maturity date.
Further details of the Groups financial risk management, derivative and non derivative financial instruments are set out in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
David Robbie, Finance Director 22 February 2006 33
