81795x 1130 28 2 06 4:39 pm Page 32 Financial review Financial risk management Amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders increased because The Groups policies with regard to risk management are clearly defined of improved results at Robe, Iron Ore Company of Canada, Coal & and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental tenet of the Groups Allied, Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium and Palabora.
In addition, in 2004 long term strategy.
outside equity shareholders interests reflected a US$129 million charge The Groups business is mining and not trading.
The Group only for impairments.
sells commodities it has produced.
In the long term, natural hedges Net earnings of US$5,215 million in 2005 were US$1,918 million operate in a number of ways to help protect and stabilise earnings and above 2004.
Underlying earnings of US$4,955 million were US$2,683 cash flow, obviating the need to use derivatives or other forms of million above 2004.
The principal factors explaining the changes in net synthetic hedging for this purpose.
Such hedging is therefore earnings are shown in the table below.
undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
US$m The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and markets, 2004 Net earnings 3,297 which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
Exclusions in arriving at Underlying earnings 1,025 The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of 2004 Underlying earnings 2,272 most of the countries in which the Group operates provides further Effect of changes in: natural protection in the long term.
In addition, the Groups policy of Prices 2,374 borrowing at floating US dollar interest rates helps to counteract the Exchange rates 123 effect of economic and commodity price cycles.
Inflation 141 The Groups Financial statements and disclosures show the full Volumes 1,140 extent of its financial commitments including debt.
The Groups share of Costs 598 the net debt of jointly controlled entities and associates is also disclosed.
Other 31 The risk factors to which the Group is subject that are thought to 2005 Underlying earnings 4,955 be of particular importance are summarised on page 7.
Add: Exclusions in arriving at Underlying earnings 260 The effectiveness of internal control procedures continues to be a 2005 Net earnings 5,215 high priority in the Rio Tinto Group.
A statement on this is included in Corporate governance on page 80.
The effect of price movements on all major commodities was to The Groups policies with regard to currencies, commodities, increase earnings by US$2,374 million.
Prices for the major products interest rates and treasury management are discussed below.
remained strong throughout the year and were appreciably higher than those experienced in 2004: average copper prices were 28 per cent Underlying earnings higher whilst average aluminium prices were ten per cent higher.
The Rio Tinto presents Underlying earnings as an additional measure of strength of the global iron ore market was reflected in the 71.5 per cent earnings to provide greater understanding of the underlying business increase in the benchmark price, mainly effective from 1 April 2005.
The performance of its operations.
Underlying earnings and net earnings seaborne thermal and coking coal markets were also strong.
both represent amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
Items a Molybdenum prices, which have generally been below US$ five per to f below are excluded from net earnings in arriving at underlying pound over the last decade, averaged over US$30 per pound during earnings.
2005, although they did soften towards the end of the year.
How long a Gains and losses relating to the disposal of interests in businesses the current strong price environment remains depends on how rapidly including investments and undeveloped properties.
the industry is able to respond to the strong demand for most products.
b Charges and credits relating to impairment of non current assets, The response will change significantly from product to product.
excluding those related to current year exploration expenditure.
The US dollar was generally weaker than in 2004 relative to the c Exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup currencies in which the Group incurs the majority of its costs.
average levels of the Australian and Canadian dollars strengthened d Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives which against the US dollar by four per cent and eight per cent, respectively.
are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in The effect of this, together with other currency movements, was to commercial contracts.
reduce underlying earnings relative to 2004 by US$123 million.
e The currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives Over 40 per cent of the underlying earnings increase year on year contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is came from higher sales volumes, resulting in a favourable variance of not the US dollar.
The West Angelas and f Other credits and charges that individually, or in aggregate if of a Yandicoogina to 36 million tonnes per annum mine expansions were similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to completed in 2005 whilst strong operational performance led to major provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
production gains at many operations including Iron Ore Company of Canada and Argyle Diamonds.
The improvement over 2004 also Earnings contributions from Group businesses and business segments reflected the following adverse influences on that earlier year: the reflect underlying earnings.
Underlying earnings is reconciled with net Grasberg slippage, the ten week strike at Iron Ore Company of Canada earnings on page 106. and the effects of hurricane Monty at Hamersley and Robe.
To take advantage of the strong market for molybdenum, the mine sequencing Group operating results 2005 compared with 2004 at Kennecott Utah Copper was optimised to maximise molybdenum IFRS requires that the profit for the period reported in the income production.
This, together with modifications to the molybdenum circuit statement should also include earnings attributable to outside at the concentrator, boosted production volumes by 130 per cent.
Both net earnings and underlying earnings, Excluding the effects of inflation, higher costs reduced earnings by which are also discussed in this report, deal with amounts attributable to US$598 million.
Of this, US$130 million was due to higher energy costs equity shareholders of Rio Tinto as shown below.
and US$46 million was attributable to increased exploration expenditure from brownfield exploration and further evaluation work.
More generally, US$m US$m costs were influenced by the strong price environment being enjoyed by 2005 2004 the mining industry.
This has led to rising mining input costs caused by Profit for the period 5,498 3,244 supply constraints for skilled labour, steel, tyres, explosives, freight and attributable to outside equity shareholders 283 53 other mining related goods and services.
Costs at Kennecott Utah attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto Copper were affected by a scheduled 17 day smelter maintenance net earnings 5,215 3,297 32 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 1 3 06 4:37 pm Page 33 shutdown in the first half of 2005 whilst continued port congestion at disposals generated proceeds of over US$1.5 billion.
The largest Dalrymple Bay, Queensland, fed through to higher demurrage charges.
components of this were the sale of shares in FCX and the sale of Higher non cash costs reflected increased depreciation at Rio Tintos interest in the Morro do Ouro gold mine in Brazil.
Kennecott Utah Copper following the changes in the mine plan at the The Groups investment in the growth of the business was end of 2004.
Increases in closure cost provisions resulted in higher sustained throughout the year.
Purchase of property, plant and depreciation charges on the amounts capitalised.
One-off costs equipment and intangible assets of US$2,552 million included the major included restructuring costs of US$30 million relating to the formation of port and rail infrastructure expansion in Western Australia, payments for the Rio Tinto Minerals organisation.
coal reserves purchased by Kennecott Energy, the expansion of Hail The effective tax rate on underlying earnings, including associates Creek coking coal and initial expenditure on the construction of a new and jointly controlled entities, was 29.7 per cent compared with dike at Diavik.
The effective tax rate on net earnings, including During the year the Group repaid US$807million of its gross associates and jointly controlled entities was 28.3 per cent compared outstanding debt and cash balances increased.
Dividends paid in 2005 with 21.4 per cent in 2004.
The lower effective tax rate on net earnings of US$1,141 million were US$235 million higher than dividends paid in in both years primarily reflects disposals that were not subject to tax.
2004 following the 20 per cent increase in the dividend declared in In total Other items improved by US$31 million.
Within that total, respect of the previous year.
A capital return programme was the net after tax interest expense of US$44 million was US$25 million commenced under which an off market buy back of Rio Tinto Limited lower than in 2004 due to lower levels of net debt.
Also within Other shares was carried out, and subsequently an on market buy back of items, 2004 underlying earnings included contributions totalling Rio Tinto plc shares.
Almost two thirds of the US$1.5 billion capital US$88 million from the operations of businesses that were sold during management programme announced on 3 February 2005 had been that year.
Earnings in 2005 benefited from an improvement in the net completed by the end of January 2006.
This programme has now been impact of insurance items, including lower claims on the captive insurers replaced by a new buy back programme totalling US$2.5 billion to be due to the absence of cyclone related damages experienced in 2004. completed by the end of 2007, subject to market conditions.
Exclusions in arriving at underlying earnings were as follows: Balance sheet Full year Full year The balance sheet strengthened considerably during the period.
Net US$m 2005 2004 debt reduced by US$2,496 million to US$1,313 million.
The ratio of net Net profit on the disposal of interests in debt to total capital fell to eight per cent and interest cover strengthened businesses including investments 311 1,175 to 59 times.
Net impairment reversals charges 4 321 In 2005, net assets increased by US$3,148 million.
The profit for Adjustment to environmental remediation provision 84 the year was US$4,074 million greater than dividends paid.
The share Exchange losses gains on external net debt buy back programme had reduced shareholders equity by and intragroup balances 99 159 US$877 million by the end of December 2005.
Losses gains on derivatives not qualifying The adoption of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and as hedges 40 12 Measurement resulted in an increase of US$109 million in net assets Total excluded in arriving at underlying earnings 260 1,025 on 1 January 2005, less than one per cent of the total.
This represents the net gain on marking to market of derivatives and investments In 2005 the net profit on the disposal of interests in businesses was available for sale.
US$311 million relating mainly to the sale of Rio Tintos interests in the As detailed in Notes 20 and 23 to the Financial statements, Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Income Fund and in Lihir Gold.
Disposals in US$1,190 million 31 per cent of the Groups borrowings at the end of 2004, principally the holding in Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, 2005 will mature in 2006 and the net asset of US$54 million for related resulted in gains of US$1,175 million.
currency and interest rate swaps will also mature in that year.
Net earnings in 2005 include a reduction of US$84 million in an At the year end, medium and long term borrowings totalled environmental remediation provision at Kennecott Utah Copper, reversing US$2,783 million and there was a net asset of US$234 million for part of an exceptional charge taken up in 2002 which was excluded related currency and interest rate swaps.
The amount issued under the from adjusted earnings in that year.
In addition, there was a small Groups corporate bond and medium term notes programmes was reversal of an impairment provision for the Madagascar project following US$2.5 billion net of related swaps, of which US$872 million is the decision to proceed with the development, offset by a minor repayable within one year.
Net earnings in 2004 included an impairment In addition to the above, the Groups share of the third party net charge of US$160 million relating to the Colowyo coal operation and of debt of jointly controlled entities and associates totalled US$536 million US$161 million for the write down of Palaboras copper assets.
This debt, which is set out in Note 16 to the Exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup Financial statements, is without recourse to the Rio Tinto Group.
balances that are recorded in the US dollar income statement, together with gains and losses on currency and interest rate derivative contracts Liquidity and capital resources that do not qualify as hedges under IFRS, are excluded from underlying The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross earnings.
In 2005, these items represented a loss of US$139 million guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and 2004: a gain of US$171 million.
Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited enjoy strong long and short term credit Cash flow ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors.
These ratings Cash flow from operations, including dividends from jointly controlled continue to provide financial flexibility and consistent access to debt entities and associates, was a record US$8,257 million, 85 per cent via money or capital markets and enable very competitive terms higher than in 2004. to be obtained.
The increase was mainly due to increased profits.
This was partly The Group maintains backup liquidity for debt maturing within offset by an increased cash outflow on working capital in 2005 mainly 12 months and its commercial paper programmes by way of bank reflecting higher receivables across all product groups due to higher standby credit facilities which totalled US$2.3 billion at 31 December metal prices and sales volumes.
These facilities, which were unused at the year end, can be Cash flow of US$323 million from disposals of interests in drawn upon at any time on terms extending out to five years.
businesses in 2005 primarily related to the sale of Lihir.
In 2004, Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 33 FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 2 3 06 3:54 pm Page 34 Financial review continued In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant As at 31 December 2005, the Group had contractual cash obligations arising in the ordinary course of business as follows: impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A weakening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are determined has an adverse effect on Rio Tintos underlying earnings.
Total Less Between Between After 5 However, this would also result in exchange gains on debt than 1 1 and 3 3 and 5 years denominated in US dollars which has a positive effect on Rio Tintos US$m year years years IFRS profit and net earnings.
It would also result in exchange gains and Contractual cash losses on intragroup balances denominated in US dollars.
Such gains obligations and losses on US dollar debt and intragroup balances are excluded Debt a 3,697 1,148 1,707 162 680 from underlying earnings.
Operating leases 113 28 31 23 31 The following sensitivities give the estimated effect on underlying Unconditional purchase earnings assuming that each exchange rate moved in isolation.
The obligations b 3,982 965 1,263 740 1,014 relationship between currencies and commodity prices is a complex one Deferred and movements in exchange rates can cause movements in commodity Consideration c 179 97 54 28 prices and vice versa.
Where the functional currency is that of a country Other d 1,322 1,159 130 33 for which production of commodities is an important feature of the Total 9,293 3,397 3,185 986 1,725 economy, such as the Australian dollar, there is a certain degree of a Debt obligations include bank borrowings repayable on demand and reflect the impact of related currency and interest rate swaps.
natural protection against cyclical fluctuations in the long term, in that b Unconditional purchase obligations relate to commitments to make payments in the the currency tends to be weak, reducing costs in US dollar terms, when future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum commodity prices are low, and vice versa.
The future payment commitments have not been discounted and mainly relate to commitments under take or pay power and freight contracts.
They The exchange rate sensitivities quoted below include the effect on exclude unconditional purchase obligations of jointly controlled entities apart from operating costs of movements in exchange rates but exclude the effect those relating to the Groups tolling arrangements.
of the revaluation of foreign currency working capital, US dollar debt and c Deferred consideration relates to the purchase of coal reserves by Kennecott Energy.
d Other relates primarily to capital commitments.
They should therefore be used with care.
2005 Average Effect of 10% Information regarding the Groups pension commitments and funding exchange rate change in full for 2005 year average arrangements is provided in the Post retirement benefits section of this - US$m Financial review and in Note 49 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Australian dollar 76USc 242 On the basis of the levels of obligations described above, the Canadian dollar 83USc 58 unused capacity under the Groups commercial paper and European Chilean peso US$1 561 pesos 7 Medium Term Notes programmes, the Groups anticipated ability to Indonesian rupiah US$1 9,708 rupiah 1 access debt and equity capital markets in the future and the level of New Zealand dollar 71USc 6 anticipated free cash flow, there are reasonable grounds to believe that South African rand 16USc 23 the Group has sufficient short and long term sources of funding available UK sterling 182USc 8 to meet its liquidity requirements.
Other n a 6 The Groups committed bank standby facilities contain no financial undertakings relating to interest cover.
The Group has no financial agreements that would be affected to any material extent by a reduction The sensitivities in the 2005 column are based on 2005 prices, costs in the Groups credit rating.
and volumes and assume that all other variables remain constant.
The Groups policy is to centralise debt and surplus cash balances Gains and losses on exchange arising from net monetary whenever possible.
assets liabilities, other than US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, that are not denominated in the functional currency of the relevant Off balance sheet arrangements business unit are recorded in the income statement and are included in In the ordinary course of business, to manage the Groups operations underlying earnings.
The table below reflects the amounts of assets less and financing, Rio Tinto enters into certain performance guarantees and liabilities, net of tax and outside interests as at the end of 2005, which commitments for capital and other expenditure.
expose the Group to such exchange gains and losses.
These balances The aggregate amount of indemnities and other performance will not remain constant throughout 2006, however, and therefore these guarantees, on which no material loss is expected, including those numbers should be used with care.
related to joint ventures and associates, was US$513 million at Currency of exposure 2005 31 December 2005.
US$m US dollar Other Total Other commitments include contracted capital expenditure, Functional currency of business unit: operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations as set out in Australian dollar 368 1 367 the table of contractual cash obligations, included in the liquidity and Canadian dollar 94 4 98 capital resources section above.
South African rand 21 5 26 Other currencies 71 71 Exchange rates, reporting currencies and currency exposure Total 554 8 562 Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the however, is the currency in which the great majority of the Groups sales US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of surplus cash located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported may also be held in other currencies, most notably Australian dollars, in equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian order to meet short term operational and capital commitments and dollars are the most important currencies influencing costs, apart from dividend payments.
The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars, either 34 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 2 3 06 4:08 pm Page 35 directly or using currency swaps, and a substantial part of the Groups Interest rates US dollar debt is located in subsidiaries having functional currencies Rio Tintos interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and other than the US dollar.
Exchange differences on the net debt which invest cash at floating rates.
Short term US dollar rates are normally hedges the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than lower than long term rates, resulting in lower interest costs to the Group.
the US dollar are dealt with through equity.
All other exchange Furthermore, cyclical movements of interest rates tend to compensate differences on net debt are dealt with in the income statement, but in the long term, to an extent, for those of commodity prices.
In some those related to US dollar net debt are excluded in arriving at underlying circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be considered earnings.
Similarly, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances appropriate.
At the end of 2005, US$0.7 billion of the Groups debt was between Group entities are taken to equity where that balance is at fixed rates after taking into account interest rate swaps.
Based on the denominated in the functional currency of one party to the loan and is, in Groups net debt at 31 December 2005, and with other variables substance, part of the Groups net investment in a subsidiary.
All other unchanged, the approximate effect on the Groups net earnings of a one exchange differences on intragroup balances are dealt with in the percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates would be a income statement but are excluded from underlying earnings.
The table below reflects the amounts of net debt and intragroup balances at the end of 2005, net of tax and outside interests, that Commodity prices expose the Group to such exchange gains and losses that would be The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market recorded in the income statement.
These balances will not remain prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the constant during 2006, however, and these numbers should therefore be Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos exposure to used with care.
commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity spread and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging Net debt a 2005 Intragroup balances 2005 would provide long term benefit to shareholders.
The forward contracts Currency of exposure Currency of exposure to sell 509 million pounds of copper at a fixed rand price per pound US$m US$ Other Total US$ Other Total were entered into as a condition of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005.
Functional currency of business unit: Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under Australian dollar 890 3 887 1,862 224 1,638 contract, often long term, at prices determined by reference to prevailing Canadian dollar 536 1 535 216 216 market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange South African rand 62 62 131 131 and COMEX in New York, usually at the time of delivery.
Prices fluctuate United States dollar 9 9 167 167 widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the Other currencies 4 6 10 88 15 73 long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also Total 1,484 19 1,465 2,297 406 1,891 priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in a The table shows amounts after taking account of the impact of currency swaps.
Of quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of the US$890 million of net debt in Australian functional currency companies, US$58 million has been swapped to US$.
The underlying currencies are: five billion yen and supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of 20 million Swiss Francs.
Similarly, of the US$536 million of net debt in Canadian supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource functional currency companies, US$366 million has been swapped to US$.
The products are generally agreed annually or for longer periods with underlying currencies are: 165 million and 16 billion yen.
customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
The Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging Approximately 43 per cent of Rio Tintos 2005 net earnings from would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
Currency protection operating businesses came from products whose prices were terminal measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial market related and the remainder came from products priced by direct circumstances and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto negotiation.
As set out in Note 35 to the Financial statements, as at The approximate effect on the Groups net earnings of a ten per 31 December 2005 there were derivative contracts to sell cent change from the full year average market price in 2005 for the US$512 million in respect of future trading transactions.
A significant following metals would be: part of the above hedge book was acquired with North Limited.
North Average Effect of 10% held a substantial hedge book on acquisition which has been retained market price change in full for 2005 year average but is not being renewed as maturities occur.
- US$m The functional currency of most operations within the Rio Tinto Copper 166c lb 215 Group is the local currency in the country of operation.
Foreign currency Aluminium 86c lb 114 gains or losses arising on translation of the net assets of these Gold $444 oz 54 operations are taken to equity and, with effect from 1 January 2004, Molybdenum $31 lb 40 recorded in a currency translation reserve.
The approximate translation effects on the Groups net assets of ten per cent movements from the year end exchange rates are as follows: The above sensitivities are based on 2005 volumes and give the 2005 estimated impact on net earnings of changes in prices assuming that all Effect of other variables remain constant.
These should be used with care.
As Closing 10% change in exchange rate closing rate noted previously, the relationship between currencies and commodity US cents - US$m prices is a complex one and changes in exchange rates can influence Australian dollar 73 910 commodity prices and vice versa.
Canadian dollar 86 134 South African rand 16 12 Treasury management and financial instruments UK sterling 173 11 Treasury activities operate as a service to the business of the Rio Tinto Other n a 9 Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of transaction permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Corporate funding and overall strategic management of Rio Tintos balance sheet is handled by the London based Group Treasury.
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 35 FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 25 2 06 9:57 am Page 36 Financial review continued exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest The Financial statements satisfy the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited rate management.
The Group uses interest rate swaps in conjunction to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as with longer term funds raised in the capital markets to achieve a floating amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and rate obligation which is consistent with the Groups interest rate policy.
The Financial statements Currency swaps are used to convert debt or investments into currencies, include a statement setting out the effect of the adjustments to primarily the US dollar, which are consistent with the Groups policy on consolidated EU IFRS profit, consolidated total recognised income and currency exposure management.
No material exposure is considered to consolidated shareholders funds for the Group that would be exist by virtue of the possible non performance of the counterparties to required under the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia financial instruments held by the Group.
The derivative contracts in which the Group is involved are valued The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these Financial by reference to quoted market prices, quotations from independent statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business financial institutions or by discounting expected cash flows.
Dividends Ore reserve estimates Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares are Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on equalised on a net cash basis: that is without taking into account any information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance associated tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US dollars.
with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy aims to increase the US Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
dollar value of dividends over time, without cutting them in economic The amounts presented under EU and Australian IFRS are based on downturns.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders receive dividends in pounds the reserves, and in some cases resources, determined under the sterling and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders receive dividends in JORC code.
Australian dollars, which are determined by reference to the exchange There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore rates applicable to the US dollar two days prior to the announcement of reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may dividends.
Changes in exchange rates could result in a reduced sterling change significantly when new information becomes available.
or Australian dollar dividend in a year in which the US dollar value is Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, maintained or increased.
The interim dividend for each year in US dollar production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of terms will be equivalent to 50 per cent of the total US dollar dividends reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Such declared in respect of the previous year.
changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and amortisation As part of the Groups capital management programme, a special rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and dividend of US$1.5 billion US$1.10 per share was declared in respect provisions for close down, restoration and environmental clean up costs.
of 2005 that will be paid concurrently with the 2005 final ordinary dividend.
The special dividend does not form part of the Groups Asset carrying values progressive dividend policy.
Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment provisions in a particular Capital management programme year.
In 2005, there were no significant impairment charges or reversals.
On 3 February 2005, a capital management programme to return up to However in 2004, the Group incurred a US$558 million impairment US$1.5 billion to shareholders by the end of 2006 was announced.
By charge, US$321 million net of tax and outside shareholders interests.
the end of January 2006, US$972 million had been returned to When such events or changes in circumstances impact on a shareholders by way of an off market buy back of Rio Tinto Limited particular asset or cash generating unit, its carrying value is assessed by shares in May 2005 totalling US$774 million and on market purchases reference to its recoverable amount being the higher of fair value less of Rio Tinto plc shares totalling US$198 million.
Of this total, costs to sell and value in use being the net present value of expected US$877 million was returned in 2005. future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit.
The best In February 2006, the Group announced an extended capital evidence of an assets fair value is its value obtained from an active management programme totalling US$4.0 billion, comprising the market or binding sale agreement.
Where neither exists, fair value less US$1.5 billion special dividend referred to above, and a share buy back costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the programme totalling US$2.5 billion to be completed by the end of 2007, amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arms subject to market conditions.
This amount replaces the approximately length transaction.
In some cases this is estimated using a discounted US$0.5 billion remaining under the 2005 programme.
In calculating a value in use, discounted cash flow analyses are used to measure the assets recoverable amount.
Critical accounting policies and estimates The cash flows used in these analyses are particularly sensitive to Dual listed company reporting changes in two parameters: exchange rates and commodity selling As explained in detail in the Outline of dual listed companies structure prices.
The great majority of the Groups sales are based on prices and basis of financial statements on page 98, the consolidated financial denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the currencies of countries statements of the Rio Tinto Group on pages 93 to 172 deal with the in which the Group produces commodities strengthen against the US results and assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
They are present values are reduced.
Management considers that over the long prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS.
In accordance with the compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar exemptions contained in IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International and vice versa.
But such compensating changes are not synchronised Financial Reporting Standards, the accounting treatment of business and do not fully offset each other.
combinations prior to 1 January 2004 has not been restated to comply Recent favourable changes in commodity prices have exceeded with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
As a result the DLC structure adverse shifts in exchange rates.
In the three years to 31 December between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited has been accounted for as 2005, the Australian dollar strengthened by 23 per cent against the US a merger, rather than as an acquisition, in line with the treatment dollar, the Canadian dollar strengthened by 26 per cent and the South adopted previously under UK GAAP.
For this purpose, Rio Tinto plc and African rand by 27 per cent.
Taking these three years together, 36 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 1 3 06 4:40 pm Page 37 estimates are based on the exchange rates current at the time of the commodity prices rose substantially: for example, copper prices increased by 134 per cent, aluminium by 40 per cent and gold by evaluation.
In estimates of fair value, a forecast of the long term exchange rate is made having regard to spot exchange rates, historical 44 per cent.
Reviews of carrying values normally relate to cash generating units data and external forecasts.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation and impairment which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified by dividing an entity into as many largely independent cash generating testing are based on Rio Tintos long term price forecasts.
For the majority of Rio Tintos businesses, by both number and by streams as is reasonably practicable.
In some cases the business units within the product groups consist of several operations with value, the recoverable amounts are substantially in excess of the carrying value in the balance sheet.
For a minority of the businesses the independent cash generating streams, which therefore constitute separate cash generating units.
carrying value is close to their recoverable amount, and these are reviewed for impairment where appropriate.
The effects of exchange The cash flow forecasts are based on best estimates of expected future revenues and costs.
These may include net cash flows expected rate and commodity price changes on the values of these units relative to their book values are monitored closely.
to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or probable ore All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment regardless of reserves.
Such non reserve material is included where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is whether there has been any change in events or circumstances.
usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing reserves.
Typically, the Close down, restoration and clean up obligations additional evaluation to achieve reserve status for such material has not Provision is made for environmental remediation costs when the related yet been done because this would involve incurring costs earlier than is environmental disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of required for the efficient planning and operation of the mine.
The expected future cash flows of cash generating units reflect long Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of term mine plans which are based on detailed research, analysis and mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
The costs are estimated on and sequence of extraction.
The plan takes account of all relevant the basis of a closure plan.
The cost estimates are calculated annually characteristics of the orebody, including waste to ore ratios, ore grades, during the life of the operation to reflect known developments, eg haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore updated cost estimates and revisions to the estimated lives of impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing operations, and are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
equipment that can be used.
The mine plan is therefore the basis for Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups forecasting production output in each future year and production costs.
businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and Rio Tintos cash flow forecasts are based on assessments of engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
expected long term commodity prices, which for most commodities are Changes to closure provisions, other than those arising from the unwind derived from an analysis of the marginal costs of the producers of these of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of the commodities.
These assessments often differ from current price levels provision, are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and and are updated periodically.
depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales Clean up costs are costs resulting from environmental damage that volumes of a cash generating unit are predetermined by existing sales was not a necessary consequence of mining, including remediation, contracts.
The effects of such contracts are taken into account in compensation and penalties.
These costs are charged to the income forecasting future cash flows.
Provisions are recognised at or near the time the damage, Cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts are based on remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known.
the current long term mine plan for the cash generating unit.
For Remediation procedures generally commence soon after this point in impairment reviews, recent cost levels are considered, together with time but may continue for many years depending on the nature of the expected changes in costs that are compatible with the current disturbance and the remediation techniques.
condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS 36.
As noted above, the ultimate cost of environmental disturbance is IAS 36 includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows that uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors can be recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement including changes to the relevant legal requirements, the emergence of related capital expenditure.
new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
The The useful lives of the major assets of a cash generating unit are expected timing of expenditure can also change, for example in usually dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Thus response to changes in ore reserves or production rates.
As a result the lives of mining properties, smelters, concentrators and other long there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close down lived processing equipment generally relate to the expected life of the and restoration and environmental clean up, which would affect future ore body.
The life of the ore body, in turn, is estimated on the basis of financial results.
Forecast cash flows are discounted to present values using Post retirement benefits Rio Tintos weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustment For defined benefit post employment plans, the Group has adopted the for the risks associated with the relevant cash flows, to the extent that option under IAS 19 to recognise the difference between the fair value of such risks are not reflected in the forecast cash flows.
For final feasibility the plan assets if any and the present value of the plan liabilities as an studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates are used which asset or liability on the balance sheet and to record actuarial gains and are generally higher than the weighted average cost of capital.
losses directly in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The above rates are applied to net of tax cash flows expressed in The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension real terms and discounted at a post tax discount rate.
If an asset is plans are the long term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate impaired a pre-tax discount rate is calculated from the post tax rate and the mortality assumptions.
The long term rate of return on plan taking into account the specific tax circumstances of the cash assets is used to calculate interest income on pension assets, which is generating unit.
This pre-tax rate is then used to discount the pre-tax credited to the Groups income statement.
The discount rate is used to cash flows.
The resulting value is compared to the assets of the cash determine the net present value of future liabilities and each year the generating unit to determine the impairment charge required.
unwinding of the discount on those liabilities is charged to the Groups Final feasibility studies, ore reserve estimation and value in use income statement.
The rates used for both 2004 and 2005 are set out Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 37 FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 1 3 06 4:26 pm Page 38 Financial review continued US$m in Note 49 to the Financial statements.
The mortality assumption is used - to project the future stream of benefit payments, which is then Sensitivity of Groups 2005 net earnings to changes in: discounted to arrive at a net present value of liabilities.
Expected return on assets The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined change of 1% 25 as managements best estimate of the long term return on the major Discount rate a asset classes, ie equity, debt, real estate and other, weighted by the change of 0.5% 1 actual allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement Salary increases date.
The expected rate of return is calculated using geometric change of 0.5% 5 averaging.
Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements The sources used to determine managements best estimate of overall change of 5% in liability 13 long term returns are numerous and include country specific bond a An increase in the discount rate will reduce the Groups net earnings.
yields, which may be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country specific inflation Further information on pensions and other post retirement benefits is and investment market expectations derived from market data and given on pages 155 to 159. analysts or governments expectations as applicable.
In particular, the Group estimates long term expected real returns on equity, ie returns in excess of inflation, based on the economic Overburden removal costs outlook, analysts views and those of other market commentators.
This In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and is the most subjective of the assumptions used and it is reviewed other barren waste materials to access ore from which minerals can regularly to ensure that it remains consistent with best practice.
The process of mining overburden and The discount rate used in determining the service cost and interest waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a cost charged to income is the market yield at the start of the year on mine, before production commences, it is generally accepted that high quality corporate bonds.
For countries where there is no deep stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction market in such bonds the yield on Government bonds is used.
determining the present value of obligations shown on the balance Stripping of waste materials continues during the production stage sheet, market yields at the balance sheet date are used.
Some mining companies expense these production stage Valuations are carried out using the projected unit method.
stripping costs as incurred, while others defer such stripping costs.
For 2005 the charge in relation to pensions and other post Those mining companies that expense stripping costs as incurred will retirement benefits net of tax and minorities was US$121 million.
Within report greater volatility in the results of their operations from period to this charge the expected return on assets was US$228 million.
The impact on cash flow in 2005 of the Groups pension plans, Rio Tinto defers production stage stripping costs for those being the employer contributions to defined benefit and defined operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching costs contribution pension plans, was US$173 million.
In addition there were with the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
contributions of US$26 million in respect of unfunded healthcare The amount of stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio schemes.
obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the quantity In relation to pensions, it is currently expected that there will be no of ore mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore.
In some significant regular employer or employee contributions to the UK plan in operations, the quantity of ore is used, being a more practical basis for 2006.
The next formal valuation of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund is due matching costs with the related economic benefits where there are with an effective date of 31 March 2006.
The results of the valuation will important by products or where the grade of the ore is relatively stable be available later in the year, after which contributions into the fund may from year to year.
Contributions are made to the main Australian plan Information about the stripping ratios of the business units, according to the recommendation of the plan actuary and are primarily including jointly controlled entities and associates, that account for the to a mixed defined benefit defined contribution type arrangement.
In majority of the deferred stripping balance at 31 December 2005, along North America, contributions are agreed annually in nominal terms.
with the year in which deferred stripping is expected to be fully Whilst contributions for 2006 are yet to be determined, contributions in amortised, is set out in the following table: the UK, Australia and Africa are expected to be broadly in line with 2005 contributions.
Contributions for 2006 are expected to be around Actual stripping Life of mine ratio for year stripping ratio US$20 million higher than in 2005 for Canadian plans and around 2004 2005 2004 2005 US$40 million lower than in 2005 for US plans.
Kennecott Utah Copper 2018 a 1.83 2.02 1.24 1.51 In calculating the 2005 expense the average future increase in Argyle Diamonds 2009 a 6.70 6.60 4.91 4.40 compensation levels was assumed to be 4.7 per cent and the same Grasberg Joint Venture 2015 a 3.39 3.12 2.43 2.43 rate will be used for 2006.
The average discount rate used for the Diavik 2008 b 1.474 1.209 0.938 0.912 Groups plans in 2005 was 5.4 per cent and the average discount rate Escondida 2042 c 0.1145 0.0915 0.1129 0.1188 used in 2006 will be 5.0 per cent.
The decrease is attributable to lower a Strip ratios shown are waste to ore. corporate bond yields.
b Diaviks strip ratio is disclosed as bench cubic metre per carat.
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and c Escondidas strip ratio is based on waste tonnes to pounds of copper mined.
other expected circumstances the impact of post retirement costs on the Groups net earnings in 2006 would be expected to increase by some US$5 million to US$126 million.
The actual charge may be Borax capitalised stripping costs as part of a distinct period of new impacted by other factors that cannot be predicted, such as the effect development during the production stage of the mine.
Capitalisation of changes in benefits.
The capitalised costs will be fully amortised in 2034.
The table below sets out the potential change in the Groups 2005 The life of mine waste-to-ore ratio is a function of an individual net earnings after tax and outside interests that would result from mines pit design and therefore changes to that design will generally hypothetical changes to post retirement assumptions and estimates.
result in changes to the ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
of mine ratio even if they do not affect the mines pit design.
Changes to the life of mine ratio are accounted for prospectively.
38 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1130 25 2 06 9:58 am Page 39 In operations that experience material fluctuations in the ratio on a expenditure is reviewed for impairment at each balance sheet date and year to year basis over the life of the mine, deferral of stripping costs full provision is made for impairment unless there is a high degree of reduces the volatility of the cost of stripping expensed in individual confidence in the projects viability and hence it is probable that future reporting periods, in relation to production of ore or contained minerals, economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the The carrying values of exploration assets are reviewed twice per extent that the current period ratio exceeds the life of mine ratio.
Such annum by management and the results of these reviews are reported to deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent the Audit committee.
There may be only inferred resources to form a that, in subsequent periods, the ratio falls short of the life of mine ratio.
basis for the impairment review.
The review is based on a status report The life of mine ratio is based on the proved and probable reserves of regarding the Groups intentions for development of the undeveloped the operation.
In some cases, the undeveloped properties are regarded as In some operations, there are distinct periods of new development successors to orebodies currently in production and will therefore during the production stage of the mine.
These may, for example, relate benefit from existing infrastructure and equipment.
It is intended that to a discrete section of the orebody.
The new development will be these will be developed and go into production when the current source characterised by a major departure from the life of mine stripping ratio.
Any impairment provisions raised in previous years Stripping costs attributable to such new development are deferred and are reassessed if there is a change in circumstances, which indicates subsequently amortised on a unit of production basis.
that they may no longer be required, for example, if it is decided to Deferred stripping costs form part of the total investment in the proceed with development.
relevant cash generating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be Contingencies recoverable.
Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility During 2005, production stage stripping costs incurred by of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in subsidiaries and equity accounted operations exceeded the amounts Note 36 on page 139.
These include tax assessments in Australia of charged against pre tax profit by US$93 million.
The net book value approximately A$500 million which, based on Counsels opinion, the carried forward in property, plant and equipment and in investments in Group expects to be successful in challenging.
jointly controlled entities and associates at 31 December 2005 was US$845 million.
Underlying earnings Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in depreciation The Group presents Underlying earnings as an additional measure of of property, plant and equipment or in the Groups share of the results of earnings to provide greater understanding of the underlying business its equity accounted operations, as appropriate.
The adjustments made to net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained above in the section on US deferred tax recoverable underlying earnings.
A potential tax asset of US$567 million for United States Alternative Minimum Tax credits and US temporary differences for which recovery is Trend information dependent on the level of taxable profits in the US tax group, has not The demand for the Groups products is closely aligned with changes in been recognised in the accounts.
An amount of US$10 million has global GDP.
Changes in the GDP of developing countries will have a been recognised.
The determination that these potential assets should greater impact on materials such as iron ore and coal that can be used not be recognised at 31 December 2005 was based on projections of to improve infrastructure whereas changes in the GDP of developed future taxable profits for the operations that form part of Rio Tintos US countries will have a greater impact on industrial minerals that have tax group.
It is possible that recoveries may occur depending on future many applications in consumer products.
Copper is used in a wide commodity prices, costs, financing arrangements and business range of applications from infrastructure to consumer electronics and developments over the next 20 years or more.
However, such demand for it has tended to grow in line with or slightly faster than recoveries are not considered probable.
Trends in production of the Groups minerals and metals, consolidated turnover, earnings and total assets are set out in the Deferred tax on mining rights Operational review on pages 40 to 58.
On transition to IFRS with effect from 1 January 2004, deferred tax was provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions in previous Forward looking statements years.
No other adjustments were made to the assets and liabilities Forward looking statements are contained in this financial review and recognised in such prior year acquisitions and, accordingly, attention is drawn to the Cautionary statement on page 8. shareholders funds were reduced by US$720 million on transition to IFRS primarily as a result of fair value adjustments to mining rights.
In general, these mining rights are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In such cases, the provision for deferred tax was based on the difference between their carrying value and their nil income tax base.
The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes was not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mineral rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from the disposal of the mineral rights.
Also, the Group is only entitled to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are sold or formally relinquished.
Exploration In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, the Group has continued the policy on the recognition and measurement of exploration and evaluation expenditure that was previously applied under UK GAAP.
The Group expenses exploration expenditure until acquisition of a beneficial interest or option in mineral rights from which point it is capitalised.
Capitalised exploration Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 39 FINANCIAL REVIEW 200 5
