10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:57 Page 24 24 Finance Directors review Our financial performance improved again in 2005.
Rising volumes and good management of costs resulted in higher profits and lower levels of average borrowing.
Andrew Shilston Finance Director Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:57 Page 25 25 Derivation  m Average net debt m IAS 32 and IAS 39 were adopted prospectively from January 1, 2005.
Accordingly, the 2004 results have not been restated 2001 990 in respect of these standards, including the revised treatment of financial RRSPs as financial liabilities and the consequent impact on the income statement see note 33.
The  restate the 2004 results for the effect of the 2002 1,090 revised treatment of financial RRSPs as if this had applied in 2004.
2003 950 2004 632 2005 2004 Year-on-year m m changes 2005 260 profit before finance costs: Underlying profit before finance costs see note 2 679 417 2004 treatment of financial RRSP net charges 69 Like-for-like profit before finance costs 679 486 40% profit before tax: Underlying profit before tax see note 2 584 364 2004 treatment of financial RRSP net charges 69 Equivalent notional finance charge 41 Like-for-like profit before tax 584 392 49% Our financial performance improved again in Group aftermarket-services revenues including c include the realised gains and losses 2005.
Rising volumes and good management of 100 per cent of repair and overhaul joint ventures of derivative contracts settled in the year.
costs resulted in higher profits and lower levels grew by 12 per cent to 3.9 billion and have An adjustment is also made to eliminate the of average borrowing.
grown by 11 per cent per annum compound restructuring, re-measurement and foreign over the past ten years.
Service revenues exchange gains and losses of financial RRSPs.
Results for the year accounted for 54 per cent of total revenues.
profit before tax was 477 million 2004 Underlying profit before tax, on a like-for-like 87 per cent of sales were to customers 364 million.
basis see above increased by 49 per cent outside the UK.
A final payment to ordinary shareholders to 584 million 2004 392 million, and Margins benefited from some improvement of 5.38p is proposed making a total of 8.72p underlying earnings per share were 24.14p in demand, continuing growth in services sales per ordinary share 2004 8.18p.
Basic earnings per share were and our focus on cost reduction, which will continue to issue B Shares in place of 20.11p 2004 15.56p.
mitigated headwinds caused by commodity dividends in order to accelerate the recovery The Group implemented International price ination and an adverse trend in our of its advance corporation tax.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS during the achieved US dollar exchange rate.
Comparative gures for 2004 are restated Underlying nancing costs amounted Order book accordingly.
A full analysis of the impact is to 95 million, comprising principally net The order book, at constant exchange rates, provided in note 33 to the financial statements.
interest 39 million, risk and revenue sharing was 22.9 billion 2004 18.9 billion.
Items are partnersnance cost 43 million and net included in the order book when a rm, signed Sales growth in all market segments pension scheme finance cost 9 million.
Sales increased by 11 per cent.
Group interest was covered 16.2 times In civil aerospace it is common for a 2004 7.6 times, based upon underlying profit customer to take options for future orders in Civil aerospace engine deliveries before interest, excluding joint ventures.
addition to rm orders placed.
Such options increased by seven per cent to 881 engines.
Restructuring charges of 48 million 2004 are excluded from the order book until they Civil aftermarket sales grew by 14 per cent.
37 million, which were incurred for ongoing become rm, signed orders.
Defence aerospace sales increased slightly, operational improvements, were included In defence aerospace, long-term programmes with small increases in both original within operating costs.
are often ordered for only one year at a time.
equipment sales and services revenues.
The Group made an underlying profit In such circumstances, even though there may before tax of 584 million 2004 364 million.
be no alternative engine choice available to Marine sales increased by 14 per cent, The Group defines an underlying measure of the customer, only the contracted business is with strong growth in the offshore oil & profit to avoid the distortions caused primarily included in the order book.
by the treatment of derivative foreign exchange Aftermarket-services agreements, including Energy sales increased by three per cent, and commodity contracts under IAS 39 see TotalCare packages, represented 38 per cent of with sales in the oil & gas sector offsetting note 28.
The adjustments to reported profit are: the order book.
These are long-term contracts the effects of the depressed power a reverse the impact of releasing the transition where only the first seven yearsrevenue is generation market.
hedging reserve arising on the valuation of included in the order book.
derivatives on January 1, 2005: b eliminate Business which has been announced but the impact of unrealised gains and losses for which contracts have not yet been signed on derivatives and other financial assets and is excluded from the order book.
This amounted liabilities recognised during the year: and to a further 1.5 billion at the year end 2004 2.4 billion.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:57 Page 26 26 Finance Directors review continued Aftermarket services The tax charge on underlying profit was The Group has a portfolio of projects at The Group continues to be successful in 167 million 2004 100 million, a rate of different stages of their life cycles.
Discounted developing its aftermarket-services activities.
cash ow analysis of the remaining life of projects These accounted for 54 per cent of revenue is performed on a regular basis.
Pensions in production are assessed against criteria in In particular, TotalCare packages in the As a result of the transition to IFRS, the charges the original development programme to ensure civil aerospace sector now cover 45 per cent, for pensions are now calculated in accordance that overall value is enhanced.
by value, of the installed eet.
TotalCare with the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Gross research and development packages cover long-term management of Benets: the amounts for 2004 have been investment amounted to 663 million 2004 the maintenance and associated logistics for restated accordingly.
IAS 19 is broadly similar 601 million.
Net research and development our engines and systems, monitoring the to FRS 17, the effects of which were disclosed was 282 million 2004 288 million.
The level equipment in service to deliver the system in previous years.
Its principal impact is to of self-funded investment in research and availability our customers require with include the entire surplus or deficit of any development is expected to remain at predictable costs.
The pricing of such contracts dened benefit scheme on the balance sheet, approximately five per cent of sales in the reects their long-term nature.
Revenues and based on dened valuation requirements.
The impact of this investment on the costs are recognised based on the stage of Details of the pensions charge and the income statement will reect the mix and completion of the contract, generally measured dened benefit schemesassets and liabilities maturity of individual development by reference to yinghours.
The overall net are shown in note 23 to the financial programmes and will result in a signicantly position of assets and liabilities on the balance statements.
This shows a net deficit, after taking lower level of capitalisation of costs in 2006. sheet for TotalCare packages was an asset of account of deferred tax, of 1,154 million 2004 Investment in training was 30 million 367 million 2004 389 million.
Changes in this deficit are affected 2004 30 million.
by the assumptions made in valuing the Capital expenditure on property, plant and Cash liabilities and the market performance of the equipment was 248 million 2004 191 million The Group cash ow statement is shown on assets.
Most importantly, the discount rate used and is expected to increase over the next year.
pages 52 and 53 of the financial statements.
for measuring the UK dened benefit liabilities The Group generated a positive cash ow has fallen from 5.3 per cent in 2004 to 4.7 per Partnerships of 552 million during 2005 2004 251 million.
In addition, the mortality The development of effective partnerships The net cash balance at the year-end was assumptions have been updated for the continues to be a key feature of the Groups 335 million 2004 net debt 217 million, after Rolls-Royce Pension Fund the largest Scheme long-term strategy.
Major partnerships are of adjustment for the implementation of IFRS.
in the Group based on the actual mortality two types: joint ventures and Risk and Revenue Net working capital reduced year-on-year with experience within the scheme and also to allow Sharing Partners.
the main items being increased inventories for future mortality improvements.
These factors of 219 million, offset by an increase in customer more than offset the better than expected Joint ventures advances of 181 million and an increase in returns on the scheme assets.
Joint ventures are an integral part of our payables of 294 million.
The average net debt During 2005, a revised benefit structure was business.
They are involved in engineering level reduced from 632 million to 260 million.
agreed with the members of the Rolls-Royce and manufacturing, repair and overhaul, With positive cash ow expected again in Group Pension Scheme, similar to that and financial services.
They are also normal 2006, there should be little if any average net debt implemented in the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund business structures for companies participating and the balance sheet will strengthen further.
in 2003. in international, collaborative defence projects.
Net cash ow from operating activities The next actuarial review is due in 2006 They share risk and investment, bring was 1,060 million 2004 610 million.
in respect of the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund.
expertise and access to markets, and provide external objectivity.
Some of our joint ventures Taxation Investments have become substantial businesses.
A major The overall tax charge on the profit before tax The Group continues to subject all investments proportion of the debt of the joint ventures was 130 million 2004 100 million, a rate of to rigorous examination of risks and future is secured on the assets of the respective 27.3 per cent 2004 27.5 per cent.
cash ows to ensure that they create companies and is non-recourse to the Group.
The tax charge was reduced by 18 million shareholder value.
All major investments The Groups share of joint venture assets 2004 13 million in respect of the expected require Board approval.
and liabilities is shown in the chart below.
benefit of the UK research and development tax credit.
Joint ventures: Rolls-Royce share m Repair and overhaul Financial services Other Total Gross assets 131 499 604 1,234 Debt 13 392 75 480 Other liabilities 50 66 391 507 Gross liabilities 63 458 466 987 Net assets 68 41 138 247 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:57 Page 27 27 Risk and revenue sharing partners RRSPs The classication of financial RRSPs as The Director of Risk reports to the Finance RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad financial instrument has resulted in a liability of Director.
The Groups policy is to preserve the portfolio of engines, thereby reducing the 423 million being incorporated in the balance resources upon which its continuing reputation, exposure of the business to individual product sheet and an associated underlying nancing viability and profitability are built, in order to risk.
The primary financial benefit is a reduction cost of 43 million recorded in the income enable the corporate objectives to be achieved of the burden of research and development statement.
In 2005 the restructuring of through the operation of the Rolls-Royce R&D expenditure on new programmes.
arrangements with a financial partner resulted business processes.
Risks are formally identied The related R&D expenditure is expensed in a reduction of the liability, of 86 million, and recorded in a corporate risk register and through the income statement and the initial with an associated gain within nancing costs its subsidiary registers within the business, programme receipts from partners, which in the income statement.
This gain has been which are reviewed and updated on a regular re-imburse the Group for past R&D expenditure, excluded from the underlying profit calculation.
basis, with risk mitigation plans identied for are also recorded in the income statement, In the past, the Group has also received all significant risks.
government launch investment in respect of RRSP agreements are a standard form certain programmes.
The treatment of this Financial risk of co-operation in the civil aero-engine investment is similar to non-financial RRSPs.
The Group uses various financial instruments in industry.
They bring benets to the engine order to manage the exposures that arise from manufacturer and the partner.
Specically, Financial services its business operations as a result of movements for the manufacturer they bring some or all The financial services businesses comprise: in financial markets.
All treasury activities are of the following benets: additional financial engine leasing Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, focused on the management and hedging and engineering resource: sharing of risk: and aircraft leasing Pembroke, and electrical power of risk.
It is the Groups policy not to trade initial programme contribution.
As appropriate, project development Rolls-Royce Power Ventures.
financial instruments or to engage in the partner also supplies components and as Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, the Groups speculative financial transactions.
There have consideration for these components, receives joint venture engine-leasing business, owns been no significant changes in the Groups a share of the long-term revenues generated a portfolio of 281 engines with 35 customers.
policies in the last year.
by the engine programme in proportion to its The proportion of engines on lease remains The principal economic and market risks purchased programme share.
continue to be movements in foreign currency The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP Pembroke, the Groups joint venture exchange rates, interest rates and commodity agreements.
In general, partners share financial aircraft-leasing business, owns 19 aircraft all of prices.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups investment in the programme: they share market which are on lease to 12 customers.
A charge exposures and financial risk management and risk as they receive their return from future of 13 million was incorporated in the 2005 a specialist committee also considers these sales: they share currency risk as their returns results to reect the current market valuation in detail.
All such exposures are managed by are denominated in US dollars: they share of Pembrokes aircraft assets.
the Group Treasury function, which reports to sales nancing obligations: they share warranty Rolls-Royce Power Ventures, the Groups the Finance Director and which operates within costs: and, where they are manufacturing or power-project developer, has 11 powerwritten policies approved by the Board and development partners, they share technical generation projects under way.
The business is within the internal control framework described and cost risk.
Partners that do not undertake being restructured and proceeds of 49 million in the report of the directors.
development work or supply components are were raised from asset sales.
referred to as financial RRSPs and, under IFRS Counterparty credit risk from 2005, are accounted for as financial Intangible assets The Group has an established policy towards instruments as described below.
The Group carried forward 1,281 million 2004 managing counterparty credit risk.
A common In 2005, the Group secured new partners 1,227 million of intangible assets.
This comprised framework exists to measure, report and control for the Trent 1000 engine programme.
purchased goodwill of 751 million, engine exposures to counterparties across the Group However, as the number of new programmes certication costs and participation fees of using Value at Risk and fair value techniques.
has reduced and in particular as government 146 million, development costs of 265 million Counterparties are assigned a credit limit that launch investment was not sought for the and recoverable engine costs of 119 million.
The Group assigns Trent 1000 programme, receipts from partners The recognition of development costs and an internal credit rating to each counterparty, have declined.
In 2005, other operating income recoverable engine costs has resulted from which is assessed with reference to publicly amounted to 60 million 2004 73 million the transition to IFRS see note 33. available credit information such as that and is expected to be at a similar level in 2006. provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost Risk management other recognised market sources and is of sales and increase as the related programme The Board has an established, structured approach reviewed regularly.
These payments amounted to risk management.
The risk committee see to 146 million 2004 240 million, including Report of the directors has accountability for 98 million in respect of financial RRSPs.
the system of risk management and reporting the key risks and associated mitigating actions.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:57 Page 28 28 Finance Directors review continued Financial instruments are only transacted with Credit rating The forward cover is managed within the counterparties that have a publicly assigned The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors parameters of these policies in order to achieve long-term credit rating from Standard & Poors of Service and Standard & Poors for its ofcial the Groups objectives, having regard to the Aor better and from Moodys of A3or better.
As at December 31, Groups view of long-term exchange rates.
2005 the Groups assigned long-term credit Forward cover is in the form of standard foreign Funding and liquidity ratings were: exchange contracts and instruments on which The Group nances its operations through the exchange rates achieved are dependent Rating Agency Rating Outlook Category a mixture of shareholdersfunds, bank on future interest rates.
The Group may also Moodys Baa1 Stable Investment borrowings, bonds, notes and finance leases.
write currency options against a portion of grade The Group borrows in the major global markets the unhedged dollar income at a rate which Standard & Poors BBB Stable Investment in a range of currencies.
grade is consistent with the Groups long-term It employs derivatives where appropriate target rate.
At the end of 2005 the Group During the year the Group saw positive actions to generate the desired currency and interest had approximately US$10.5 billion of forward by Moodys and Standard & Poors such that the rate prole.
ratings and outlook from both agencies are The Group took advantage of favourable The consequence of this policy has been now equivalent.
market conditions during 2005 to extend the to maintain relatively stable long-term foreign The Group attaches significant importance maturity prole of its main 250 million exchange rates.
Note 20 includes the impact of to maintaining an investment grade credit revolving credit facility from 2009 to 2012 on revaluing forward currency contracts at market rating, which it views as necessary for the improved pricing and terms.
As at December 31, values on December 31, 2005, showing a value business to operate effectively.
2005 the Group had total committed borrowing of 228 million 2004 986 million which will The Groups medium-term objective is to facilities of 1.7 billion on an IFRS basis 2004 uctuate with exchange rates over time.
achieve, through the normal course of business, 1.8 billion.
The Group has entered into these forward an Acategory investment grade credit rating There are no rating triggers contained in contracts as part of the hedging policy, from both agencies.
any of the Groups facilities that could require described above, in order to mitigate the the Group to accelerate or repay any facility for impact of volatile exchange rates.
Currency risk a given movement in the Groups credit rating The Group is exposed to movements in exchange and no material impact on the Groups interest Interest rate risk rates for both foreign currency transactions and charge is expected to arise from a movement The Group uses xed rate bonds and oating the translation of net assets and profit and loss in the Groups credit rating.
rate debt as funding sources.
The Groups policy accounts of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group holds financial investments and is to maintain a higher proportion of net debt The Group regards its interests in overseas maintains undrawn committed facilities at a at xed rates of interest having regard to the subsidiary companies as long-term investments.
level sufficient to ensure the Group has available prevailing interest-rate outlook.
To implement The Group has tended to manage its funds to meet its medium-term capital and this policy the Group may utilise a combination translational exposures through the currency funding obligations and to meet any of interest-rate swaps, forward-rate agreements matching of assets and liabilities where unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
and interest-rate caps to manage the exposure.
The matching is reviewed regularly.
The Group from time to time holds cash and Appropriate risk mitigation is undertaken where short-term investments which, together with Commodity risk material mismatches arise.
the undrawn committed facilities, enable the The Group has an ongoing exposure to the The Group is exposed to a number Group to manage its liquidity risk.
price of jet fuel and base metals arising from of foreign currencies.
The most significant The Group continues to have access to business operations.
The Groups objective transactional currency exposure is the US dollar all the major global debt markets.
is to minimise the impact of price uctuations.
US dollar income, net of The exposure is hedged in accordance with expenditure represented 27 per cent of Group parameters contained in a written policy set turnover in 2005 2004 26 per cent.
The Group operates a hedging policy using a variety of financial instruments with the objective of minimising the impact of uctuations in exchange rates on future transactions and cash ows.
The permitted range of the amount of cover taken is determined by the written policies set by the Board, based on known and forecast income levels.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:57 Page 29 29 Sales nancing Each of the above forms an active part of A summary of other changes, which have not In connection with the sale of its products, the Groups exposure management process.
been adopted in 2005, is included within the the Group will, on some occasions, provide Where exposures arise, the strategy has accounting policies in note 1 to the financial nancing support for its customers.
This may been, and continues to be, to assume where statements.
involve the Group guaranteeing nancing for possible liquid forms of nancing commitment customers, providing asset-value guarantees that may be sold or transferred to third parties Share price AVGs on aircraft for a proportion of their when the opportunity arises.
During the year the Rolls-Royce share expected future value, or entering into leasing Note 30 to the accounts describes the price increased by 73 per cent from 247p to transactions.
Groups contingent liabilities as revised following 427.5p per share, compared to a 55 per cent The Group manages and monitors its the adoption of IFRS.
increase for the aerospace and defence sector sales finance related exposures to customers There were no material changes to the and a 17 per cent increase for the FTSE 100. and products within written policies approved Groups gross and net contingent liabilities in The Companys shares ranged in price from by the Board and within the internal framework this respect in 2005.
236p in April to 430.5p in December.
described in the report of the directors.
The The number of shares in issue at the end contingent liabilities represent the maximum International Financial Reporting Standards of the year was 1,759 million, an increase of discounted aggregate gross and net exposure As we described last year, from 2005 all 54 million of which 19 million related to share that the Group has in respect of delivered European Union listed companies are required options and 35 million related to conversion aircraft, regardless of the point in time at which to adopt International Financial Reporting of B Shares into ordinary shares.
Standards IFRS for their financial statements.
The average number of shares in issue was The Group uses Airclaims Limited as an Accordingly these are the first financial 1,740 million 2004 1,690 million.
Underlying independent appraiser to value its security statements prepared on this basis.
On April 14, earnings per share were 24.14p an increase of portfolio at both the half-year and year-end.
2005, we announced the impact on Rolls-Royce 55 per cent over 2004.
Airclaims provides specic values both current of the transition to IFRS.
This is set out in note 33 and forecast future values for each asset in the to the financial statements and further details security portfolio.
These values are then used are available in the Investors section on the to assess the Groups net exposure.
com The permitted levels of gross and net In summary, the key areas of impact for Andrew Shilston Finance Director exposure are limited in aggregate, by Rolls-Royce relate to: counterparty, by product type and by calendar financial instruments accounting under year.
The Groups gross exposures are divided IAS 32 and IAS 39: approximately 60:40 between AVGs and credit guarantees.
They are spread over many years capitalisation of development expenditure and relate to a number of customers and a under IAS 38: broad product portfolio.
the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on The Board regularly reviews the Groups accounting for financial RRSP receipts sales finance related exposures and risk and payments: management activities.
Each nancing commitment is subject to a credit and asset pension-scheme accounting under IAS 19: review process and prior approval by the fair valuing share-option schemes in Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
accordance with IFRS 2: and The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing model to assess risk and exposure.
the cessation of goodwill amortisation Costs and exposures associated with providing in accordance with IFRS 3. nancing support are incorporated in any During 2005, the International Accounting decision to secure new business.
Standards Board has published further new The Group seeks to minimise the level of standards and amendments to existing exposure from sales finance commitments by: standards.
Of these, the Group has chosen to adopt early the amendment to IAS 19 the use of third party non-recourse debt Employee Benets allowing the recognition, where appropriate: in full, of actuarial gains and losses on postthe transfer, sale, or re-insurance of risks: and retirement benefit schemes in the statement of recognised income and expense in 2005. ensuring the proportionate ow down of risk and exposure to relevant RRSPs.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
