06 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2005 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW WE SAW FURTHER PROGRESS IN MANY OF OUR MARKETS IN 2005.
THE PRINCIPAL HIGHLIGHT WAS THE STRENGTH OF OUR CORE ELECTRIC ACTUATOR MARKET ESPECIALLY IN ASIA AND THE USA.
THIS WAS SUPPORTED BY THE CONTINUING HIGH LEVELS OF GROWTH FROM ROTORK FLUID SYSTEM.
Bill Whiteley Chief Executive Business Strategy products, marketing initiatives, creating service revenue opportunities The objective of Rotork p. l. c. is to increase shareholder value by and driving cost reductions relating to these businesses.
developing its leadership position in worldwide valve actuator activities.
All of the Groups activities are focused on the specialist Year under review area of valve automation.
The origins of the Company lie with the We saw a further strengthening of many of our markets in 2005 founder, Jeremy Fry, who developed an electric valve actuator in which had been evident in the second half of the prior year.
Over the years Rotork continued to build on its reputation as currencies were not a significant factor with the average US dollar an innovator of new concepts in this field and has provided users and euro exchange rates against the pound for the year as a whole with increasing levels of functionality, performance and assurance.
giving us a small currency gain.
Order intake was up 23.7% with all three divisions participating in active markets.
The order book at the Recent strategy has focused on opportunities to leverage our end of the year was 63.7m which is 35.6% up on the start of the leadership position in heavy-duty electric actuation into other closely year adjusted for the acquisition of PCI and 1.4% up on the order associated areas of valve automation.
Today Rotorks business is split book at the half year.
Revenue was up 19.0% and operating profits into three actuation divisions: Rotork Electric, the original and largest were up 20.0%.
The principal highlight was the strength of our core activity supplying high quality, state of the art products for controlling electric actuator market, especially in Asia and the USA where we pipeline and other valves: Rotork Fluid System, which supplies heavyenjoy good market positions due to our strong sales and support duty pneumatic and hydraulic valve actuators for operation in presence and the desire in these regions to purchase the best emergency shut down and other critical applications: Rotork Gears, available technology.
This was supported by the continuing strong involved in the supply of gearboxes, adaptors and ancillaries for the growth of Rotork Fluid System, whose business was enhanced last valve industry.
Key programmes relate to the development of March by the acquisition of PC-Intertechnik in Germany.
TECHNICAL INNOVATION AT THE FOREFRONT OF ACTUATION TECHNOLOGY The second generation of Rotork IQ intelligent actuators has been setting the standard for actuators since 1993.
In keeping with our commitment to innovation further enhancements have enabled multi-lingual displays, performance monitoring and data upload download using the new IQ Pro setting tool.
