The core values we have chosen COMMUNITY crises caused by the Indian Ocean tsunami and the OPERATING OPERATING Management of corporate responsibility CR is an During 2005 we completed development of a new call for us to recognise our responsibility to all school siege in Beslan, Russia at the end of 2004. REVIEW REVIEW integral part of our overall business management.
stakeholders, strive to achieve excellence, celebrate groupwide community involvement policy and The total raised for relief operations, including Our Group risk management processes include strategy.
This followed a review of our community diversity, encourage enterprise and seek to optimise matching funds from S&N, was 500,000.
CORPORATE CORPORATE identification, management and monitoring of social, profitable growth.
activities which benchmarked them against current RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY ethical and environmental SEE risks.
The new policy, which has been We have been developing an integrated LOBBYING AND PUBLIC POLICY forward looking analysis of key SEE risks and their approach to human resources management, ensuring approved by the Charity Committee chaired by Sir DEVELOPMENT CONTINUED potential business impact is part of the routine Brian Stewart, will ensure that our community that policies and practice are consistent across the We play an active part in a variety of trade bodies Control Self Assessment and internal audit Group and reflect our beliefs and values.
investment is effectively and consistently targeted to and social policy organisations across the countries processes for our national businesses.
support our business objectives and deliver real We have completed the roll-out of our and regions where we operate.
We believe there At Group level a Corporate Responsibility Performance, Development, Potential process across benefits for the company, the communities in which it are clear benefits from ensuring that the company Committee of senior managers oversees CR strategy.
This systematic approach to personal is represented in these organisations and that It reports to the Board chaired by the Chief Executive and career development is designed to ensure that As part of the groupwide integration process we the industry can speak with a collective voice.
and also works closely with the managing directors are introducing a more robust process for collecting staff at all levels are fully aware of their role, inspired In the past we have tended to focus on industry of the national businesses.
The committees to succeed, and enabled to achieve their full potential.
data on all forms of community investment including representation at national level.
But the anti-alcohol responsibilities include assessing the significant risks donations, gifts in kind and employee volunteering It now reaches everyone not covered by a collective lobby is increasingly co-ordinating activities arising from SEE issues using appropriate indicators bargaining agreement with a trade union.
and evaluating the benefits they deliver.
internationally, and we believe it is important that to analyse trends and predict future performance.
We continue to benchmark our activities against We continue to find ways of removing barriers the industry should do the same.
We now work with We aim to apply best practice in our disclosure to the development of high performance teams in best practice elsewhere.
Our ranking in the annual industry bodies at both national and international level of SEE risks.
Although the UKs proposed Operating Giving List compiled by the Guardian newspaper has each operating unit.
As part of this process we have to develop and promote sensible alcohol harm and Financial Review will not now become a legal launched an employee consultation survey across continued to improve.
In 2005 we were placed 30th reduction strategies, and to ensure that our views requirement, the EU Accounts Modernisation in the list, which ranks FTSE 100 companies the business.
We are also promoting our confidential and those of the industry as a whole are represented Directive will require retrospective description of whistleblowing process to monitor compliance according to their contributions to non-business in public debate at all appropriate levels.
We now produce an annual CR report causes, compared with 66th in 2004. with our Code of Business Conduct.
that includes additional information on risk and Community engagement is becoming an integral For more information on corporate responsibility performance our full report on 2005 will be available part of the way we manage the business and of our ENVIRONMENT issues, policies and performance, or to download on our website from the AGM date 27 April 2006 We continue to make progress towards our international Graduate Programme.
Each year some our full corporate responsibility report, please at www.
50 people join this programme, which helps to environmental objectives and targets across the visit www.
com sn cr The following summary report covers the seven business.
All operating companies are showing develop the companys future leaders.
As part of the key impact areas identified in our SEE risk analysis.
programme they undertake a project for Turning Point, improvement.
During 2005 we approved a new group the UKs leading social care organisation.
This charity RESPONSIBLE DRINKING supports about 100,000 people with complex needs environment policy which puts greater emphasis Clearly, responsible drinking is a key social issue on engaging employees on environmental issues every year, including those affected by drug and for us.
It continues to receive considerable media alcohol abuse and people with mental health and will ensure that environmental considerations are attention in most markets, with particular emphasis seen as an integral part of our business management.
Staff at our group office and local operating The rapidly rising cost of energy and the As a brand leader in many of our markets we introduction of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme companies responded quickly to the humanitarian see both an opportunity and a responsibility to take have intensified the strategic importance of energy the lead in responsible marketing and in promoting management to the business.
We were among the first in the a more rigorous energy efficiency programme is INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL CASHFLOW AND NET DEBT FINANCIAL UK to display alcohol units on packaging and support well underway, to achieve further reductions in both REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS For the twelve months to 31 December 2005 free 2 the Drinkaware website to help consumers make energy costs and CO emissions.
We are also REVIEW The accounts have been prepared under IFRS and cash flow before dividends cash flow from operating informed choices.
We continue to work closely with examining ways of generating our own energy the 2004 comparative figures have been restated activities and investing activities, but excluding trade associations in these areas.
to ensure that S&N is able to respond effectively to comply with IFRS.
In the transition to IFRS the acquisitions was an inflow of 266m.
In February 2005 we launched a new responsible to future cost and environmental pressures.
2004 comparative figures have not been restated Cash flow from ordinary operating activities marketing strategy, which incorporates a Responsible In particular, we are evaluating the use of for the implementation of IAS 32 Financial was 423m and 84m was spent on reorganisation Marketing Code.
This emphasises complying with renewable energy.
Bulmers has installed two micro Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and and onerous contracts to give a net cash flow from the spirit as well as the letter of relevant legislation.
wind turbines that provide electrical power to its IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and operations of 339m.
The Code is published in the corporate responsibility orchard buildings.
This is a modest start, but it reflects Measurement.
Instead IAS 32 and IAS 39 have Net interest paid was 68m.
Tax paid was only section of our website to ensure transparency, and our intention to address the energy challenge as an been implemented at 1 January 2005 with an 14m as the Group continued to benefit from tax will be updated as necessary to keep pace with opportunity to become a more efficient and innovative adjustment put through the Statement of Recognised relief on the 200m special contribution paid to the external developments.
We provide briefing sessions business.
The main impact of this pension scheme in 2004.
A dividend of 34m was on the Code for our in-house marketing and The other primary environmental issue for our adjustment was to reduce shareholders funds received from BBH.
advertising agency staff, and gave them all an business is water consumption.
We continue to make by 28m and to increase net debt by 44m.
Capital expenditure was 159m, split 86m e-learning training module in early 2006. progress, and our water efficiency is improving UK and 73m International.
Depreciation and significantly every year.
Fixed asset disposals JOINT VENTURES There were exceptional items of 57m relating to generated proceeds of 86m mainly from the As joint ventures make increasing contributions to SUPPLY CHAIN restructuring initiatives in the UK, International and disposal of surplus properties.
There was a net our business it is important to identify and manage Governments, non-governmental organisations and BBH.
In addition, there was net financial income inflow on investments of 48m driven by further their SEE risks in the same way as we do for our responsible businesses are all increasingly aware that of 6m arising from movement in the fair value disposals of the UK loan book to Royal Bank wholly owned businesses.
Many of their risk issues, corporate responsibility extends beyond companies of financial instruments which are held for hedging of Scotland.
such as responsible marketing, will be the same own behaviour.
The impact of corporate responsibility purposes, but which do not qualify for hedge Dividends cost 186m and 113m was spent as those in the rest of the group.
But in developing programmes will be greatly enhanced if companies accounting under IAS 39. on acquisitions primarily the investment in United countries there may be additional issues to consider, ensure that their suppliers also maintain high ethical, Breweries Limited to give a net cash outflow in areas such as employment practices, corruption sustainability and social responsibility standards.
As we embed consistent standards of corporate Net interest costs excluding exceptionals of 87m Net debt improved from 2107m at 1 January As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we responsibility across our own organisation we are compared with 82m in 2004.
In April last year we 2005 after adjusting for IAS 32 and IAS 39 to have publicly committed to manage our joint ventures now able to establish a more rigorous approach to made a one-off 200m special payment to the 2040m at 31 December.
This was primarily due responsibly.
We are working with our partners to procurement covering both what and how we buy.
Primarily as a result of this, net to benefits from exchange rates of 72m mainly the develop policies that address the relevant social We have developed an audit process for interest on the pension liability fell from 8m to 5m, weakening of the euro and changes in the fair value and environmental impacts.
assessing new and existing suppliers.
This has now but there was a consequent increase in the interest of interest rate swaps and loans of 18m offset by been implemented across the group to provide a cost on borrowings.
DEVELOPING A RESPONSIBLE, consistent, organisation-wide approach to managing For the twelve months to 31 December 2005 HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE supplier relationships.
Suppliers are assessed EBITDA interest cover excluding net interest on the PENSIONS To help us become a more integrated business we against a range of weighted criteria which include pension liability was 8.1x compared with 8.3x in the The pension liability improved from 397m at 31 have reviewed our corporate vision and values.
We quality and environmental issues.
We are continuing twelve months to 31 December 2004.
On a similar December 2004 to 313m at 31 December 2005. want to unite and inspire our people across the Group to refine these audits and to broaden their scope in basis operating profit interest cover was 5.8x compared Net of deferred tax, the liability at 31 December behind the vision of working together, building the line with our commitment to support the social and to 6.0x.
The improvement brands that people love to drink.
environmental principles of the UN Global Compact.
was primarily driven by a strong investment Shared values will help us to achieve this vision performance which more than offset the negative while recognising and fulfilling our broader social impact of falling bond yields and cash contributions in excess of the annual service cost.
12 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 13
