Financial Results The average tax rate on headline profit core debt.
The non-recourse The Operating Review on pages 4 to 9 increased to 34% 2004: 31% as a aggregated debt in the PFI Companies covers the background to the Groups result of the proportion of profits from increased by 35m mainly due to the trading performance.
The L&P business countries with higher tax rates.
The construction work-in-progress on the contributed 5.8m to trading profits in underlying rates of tax in the countries ELWA contract.
the first three months before its where the Group operates were UK: disposal and is classified as 30%, Netherlands: 35% and Belgium: Capital Expenditure and Acquisitions discontinued.
The Group suffers a higher charge The Group spent 65m net on capital contributed 3m to Headline Profit, in Belgium as landfill tax is nonexpenditure 2004: 68m of which after taking into account its financial deductible for corporation tax purposes.
33m was in the core business and charges.
Changes in the average euro 32m on PFI contracts.
The core exchange rate during the year had an Cash Flow business growth capital projects adverse 0.4m effect on Group Details of the Groups cash flow include the purchase of land at Hoek Headline Profit.
performance are shown in Table 1. van Holland, the Brussels transfer station expansion, capacity increases Finance charges were much lower at The underlying cash utilisation of the at ATM and the new wood plant at 10.8m 2004: 20.7m reflecting the core business was 4m after net Utrecht.
Core business maintenance L&P disposal proceeds received in July capital expenditure of 33m.
The capital expenditure reduced to 21m 2004.
Goodwill amortisation fell by adverse working capital movement 2004: 32m due to the L&P 1.6m to 10.0m 2004: 11.6m due includes the 10m pension disposal.
The expenditure on PFI to the sale of the L&P and other prepayment relating to the L&P contracts mainly related to ELWA but businesses.
Goodwill arising on the disposal.
The 190m net cash includes costs of 4m in respect of the acquisition of the Dumfries & Galloway proceeds from business disposals, acquisition of Shanks Dumfries and PFI contract has been provisionally partially offset by the adverse 4m Galloway Limited.
This reflects the translation of the Euro denominated assumption of net liabilities 3.8m debt into its sterling equivalent, Directly attributable interest on and bid costs incurred 3.9m.
resulted in a reduction of 182m in separately identifiable major capital Table 1 Group Cash Flow m 2005 2004 Change Core Business PFI Companies Total Total Operating profit 42 2 44 51 7 Depreciation and landfill provisions 38 1 39 53 14 EBITDA 80 3 83 104 21 Working capital 12 4 16 5 11 Net capital expenditure and acquisitions 33 32 65 68 3 Interest, tax, dividends and other 39 2 41 47 6 Underlying cash flow 4 35 39 16 23 Business disposals 190 190 190 Currency translation 4 4 5 9 Group cash flow 182 35 147 11 158 before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 10 shanks.
annual report 2005 projects is capitalised.
As at 31 March been controlled by the Group, their noncontract to which all other contracts 2005 the interest capitalised totalled recourse debt is consolidated onto the are linked.
face of the Group balance sheet.
The breakdown between the two debt In order for the PFICO to meet its PFI Projects Balance Sheet categories of core and PFICO debt is obligations under the PA, it enters into Treatment and Risk Matters shown in the financial statements.
two principal subcontracts with a Group The Group has already won three 25 subsidiary, Shanks Waste Management year contracts to manage local The Groups investment is initially Limited SWM.
The first contract is to authority waste arisings.
The provided by the Funders in the form of Engineer, Procure and Construct EPC considerable opportunity to expand this an equity bridge loan.
This bridge is the process plants and ancillary business is set out in the Chairmans underwritten by an irrevocable letter of facilities.
Normal construction industry Statement and the Operating Review.
credit under the Groups core banking performance bonds are required by facility in the Funders favour.
SWM in turn obtains A typical structure for these contracts equity bridge is repaid when the major performance bonds from its subis shown in Figure 1, although each operating facilities have been contractors such as Ecodeco.
The one has its own small variations.
Equity bridges totalling majority of the SWM risk is therefore 27m in respect of ELWA and D&G are passed down to experienced A separate PFI company PFICO is expected to be repaid in 2007.
It retains only the residual created to contract with each local will reduce PFICO debt and increase risk relating to the contractors credit authority.
The PFICO is typically core debt correspondingly.
worthiness and the interface risk financed by non-recourse senior debt between the various contractors.
c. 80% from the Funders with an A tripartite Project Agreement PA is investment from the Groups negotiated with the local authority and The second contract is for the subsidiary, Shanks PFI Investments the Funders which defines the PFICOs Operation and Maintenance O&M of Limited, in the form of subordinated performance obligations and its the local authorities waste business.
debt c. 19% and pinpoint equity liabilities in the event of nonDuring contract negotiations SWM will c. 1%.
As all PFICOs have thus far performance.
The PA is the master agree with the PFICO, the Funders and Figure 1 Typical PFI Contract Structure Local Authority Non-recourse Equity and Shanks PFI Funders PFICO Investments Ltd Senior Debt Subordinated Debt Shanks Group plc Engineer, Operation and Procure and Maintenance Construct EPC O&M Performance Contract Contract Guarantees Shanks Waste Management Ltd 11 shanks.
continued PFI Projects Balance Sheet close from both the PA contractor investment to reduce cash and net Treatment and Risk Matters PFICO and the O&M contract SWM.
translation exposure on exchange rate continued Various planning permissions and movements.
No other currency hedging the local authority appropriate permits under the EPC contract are mechanisms are used.
The Group performance levels and penalties in the then applied for and, upon their maintains a significant proportion of its event of SWMs non-performance.
The receipt, construction of the new debt on fixed rates of interest in order Funders providing the debt, which is facilities is commenced.
Typically it can to protect interest cover.
non-recourse to the Group, insist on take five years before the EPC contract being able to remove SWM for serious is complete.
On receipt of the L&P proceeds, the non-performance and, in extremis, may Group repaid its syndicated borrowings take control of the PFICO.
Although all PFICOs have historically and reduced its private placement been wholly owned by the Group, facility from 131m to 52m before The Group provides guarantees various alternative structures are being entering into a bank bridging loan.
This covering the performance of SWM considered for the future.
It is also bridge was repaid on 4 May 2005 from under both the EPC and O&M contracts possible that there will be subcontract the proceeds of a new loan facility with to the PFICO up to the level of the agreements with non-Group companies five major banks.
This is a 250m agreed liability caps.
If the project fails, rather than with SWM.
When the EPC multicurrency revolving credit facility the Groups equity investment in the contract is complete, the risk profile of expiring in May 2010.
The private PFICO could be at risk.
However, it is the project is substantially reduced and placement maturity dates remain important to note that waste consideration will be given to the sale between 2009 and 2013.
The Group management is the Groups core of some, but probably not all, of the also has 29m of working capital competence.
These guarantees and Groups equity in the PFICO.
There is an facilities with various banks.
risks are therefore in the normal emerging secondary market for low risk course of business.
PFI equity investments which could Insurance allow the Group to reduce its equity The policy on insurance is to secure Upon financial close PFICO assumes holdings and provide funds for future the maximum cover available in the the substantial bid costs previously PFI projects.
The O&M subcontract will market at reasonable prices.
The incurred by the Group.
This means that however be retained by SWM.
Group therefore carries catastrophe PFICO debt increases and the core insurance, including pollution cover, but debt reduces correspondingly.
As Bid costs of 1.2m on PFI projects self-insures up to a maximum PFICO immediately takes over the 2004: 1.0m incurred prior to aggregate level of 2m.
existing local authoritys waste facilities preferred bidder status were written and associated liabilities under the PA off.
At 31 March 2005 the prepaid Pensions contract, the transaction is accounted post preferred bid costs amounted to The Group continues to use SSAP 24 for under the rules for acquisition Nil 2004: 3.1m.
Pension Costs to account for pensions accounting.
Goodwill arises from the and has adopted the transitional net liabilities assumed and the bid Treasury and Risk Management Policy arrangements permitted by FRS 17 costs incurred, and is written off over The treasury policy is to use financial Retirement Benefits.
Under SSAP 24 the life of the contract.
instruments with a spread of maturity the pension charge for year ended dates and sources in order to reduce 31 March 2005 has decreased to Profit and positive cash flows accrue to funding risk.
Borrowings are drawn in 2.5m 2004: 5.1m due in part to the Group immediately after financial the same currencies as the underlying the L&P disposal.
annual report 2005 On the FRS 17 basis, the net pension IFRS for the first time.
The Group has and losses will not be reflected in the liability has reduced to 11.8m 2004: established a project team which is income statement but taken through 19.7m mainly as a result of a 10m assessing the impact of the Statement of Recognised Income payment made in March 2005 relating implementation.
IFRS standards are and Expense.
to the residual liabilities of the L&P currently being reviewed and employees who have become deferred interpreted.
Based on the work done to IAS 21 The Effect of Changes in pensioners in the UK defined benefit date the most significant adjustments Foreign Exchange Rates.
Exchange rate scheme the Scheme.
There is no arising from IFRS adoption are variances on monetary items are additional charge against current year described below: included in the income statement profits arising from this payment as the unless they are part of a net current charge already reflects the IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
This investment or designated as a hedge.
requires measurement of share based IAS 21 is more prescriptive in transactions with employees at fair determining the designation of items, The Scheme was closed to new value at the date of grant.
This value including intra-group loans.
members in September 2002 and new forms the basis of the charge to profits employees are now offered a defined over the period between grant and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: contribution arrangement.
The actuarial valuation, based on the Group expects to apply hedge assets and liabilities as at 1 April IFRS 3 - Business Combinations.
accounting for interest rate swaps and 2003, showed a smoothed funding Goodwill is carried at cost and subject foreign exchange balance sheet deficit of 12m.
The Group raised its to annual impairment reviews rather hedges.
The extent of increased annual pension cash contributions by than amortisation as required by UK volatility will depend on prevailing 1.4m with effect from 1 April 2004.
On first-time adoption of IFRS, interest and currency rates in the The employee contribution rate was the Group will take advantage of the relevant accounting period and the increased from 5% to 7% of relevant option not to restate past business effectiveness of hedges.
earnings with effect from 1 May 2004. combinations and to treat the carrying value of goodwill at the transition date Going Concern as cost.
The Directors, having reviewed the Groups 2005 6 budget, its medium IAS 10 Events after the Balance term plans and its new banking Sheet.
Proposed dividends are not arrangements, are satisfied that the recognised as a liability as they are D J Downes Group has sufficient resources to subject to approval prior to payment.
Group Finance Director continue operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax adopt the going concern basis in assets and liabilities are recognised for preparing the financial statements.
all timing differences contained in the balance sheet.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Pension For the year starting 1 April 2005, the liabilities are recognised based on Group results will be presented under actuarial valuations.
annual report 2005 the environment, the community and the Group.
Environmental regulation and its societys waste in a sustainable and During the review period the Group enforcement creates the markets for acceptable manner.
All operating sites published its fifth annual Environmental our services.
It is therefore important are regulated by environmental Report covering all its operating that performance in this area is of the authorities against requirements set divisions.
Performance is reported in a highest standard in order to ensure out within licences and permits.
Data quantitative manner using a set of continuing acceptance of our on emissions from our facilities is environmental performance indicators operations by host communities and to submitted to the regulators and is and reflecting the UK Governments satisfy our customers.
In addition we report general guidelines for environmental annually on our performance through reporting.
The Groups approach to its business the Environmental Report and the is clearly outlined in a Statement of Health and Safety Review.
Environmental Advisory Board Business Principles and Corporate The Group set up its Environmental Ethics publicly available alongside all The Group was, once again, included Advisory Board EAB in 1989 to act as other corporate publications on the within the FTSE4Good UK index: a an independent assessor of its Shanks website at www.
measurement of corporate social environmental management and responsibility administered by the performance and to give advice on This commitment to achieve business independent FTSE Group.
The Group did environmental and related matters.
goals by acting with honesty, integrity, not participate in the annual Business Chaired by Professor James Bridges, openness and fairness is plainly in the Environment BiE Index of the President of the EU Committee on stated, together with a clear and public Corporate Engagement during the Toxicology, Ecotoxicology and the definition of acceptable business 2004 5 financial year, being at the time Environment, the EAB membership practice.
The statement also provides outside the qualifying group of the UKs comprises a range of international staff with the Group vision and top 350 quoted companies.
environmental and technical guidance on dealings with stakeholders specialists.
such as shareholders, employees, Environmental Management customers, suppliers and contractors, Externally accredited Environmental A summary of their activities for the as well as covering the specific areas Management Systems ISO14001, review period is included in the of environmental protection and health together with a number of non-certified Environmental Report for 2004 5. and safety.
mirror systems, form an important part of the environmental management of Employees The Group is committed to making a the Groups wide ranging waste and Employees remain the Group's most significant contribution to managing resource business.
Visual aids reinforce a vital part of awareness of dangers to operations.
Machinery both employees and operation has strict customers.
regulations for safety which must be adhered to by all employees.
Our Continental operations comply with national safety requirements.
annual report 2005 Group has a management philosophy meet the Groups target of a 10% yearThe Wider Community aimed at ensuring all employees feel on-year reduction.
The Group strives to achieve effective respected and able to fulfil their communications with all stakeholders potential.
Dignity at work is a Performance across the Groups and seeks to secure good relations fundamental principle, which underpins operations was varied with both with operational site neighbours.
all of our employment policies.
Equal Netherlands and Flanders meeting the Increasingly, the internet is utilised as opportunities is at the heart of 10% reduction target, whilst the UK a modern communications tool and the recruitment and employment practices.
and Wallonia recorded lower levels of Group has developed its website as a The Group is committed to the principle improvement.
Any improvement in source of easily accessible and that it must invest in its people to safety performance is welcome and understandable information.
However, ensure that they have the business, the consistent trend being shown informal discussions and meetings, commercial and technical skills towards lower accident rates is a newsletters, exhibitions and, where appropriate to our industry to provide reflection of the importance the Group regarded as appropriate by interested the best possible service to the places on safety.
parties, formal liaison groups, remain customer.
among the more traditional methods Despite the general improvement in used.
All sites subscribe to the open A culture of two-way communication is safety performance it is with sadness door policy for pre-arranged visits and actively promoted and Trades Unions, that we must report the death while at some also host additional educational Works Councils and other employee work of an employee in the Netherlands.
resources for students or community groups are involved wherever The Groups sympathy and condolences groups.
go to family, friends and colleagues.
This fatal accident is a reminder that Further support is provided to Health and Safety continuing improvements in safety must communities neighbouring our sites, For the third year running the Group be at the top of managements and all particularly through the Landfill Tax improved its safety performance and employees agendas.
Credit Scheme LTCS, which has been reduced the rate of more serious enthusiastically backed by the Group accidents being suffered by its Details of accident and other aspects since its inception in late 1996. employees.
Overall the Group recorded of safety performance are available in a 5% fall in more serious accidents the Annual Health and Safety Review, expressed as a rate per 100,000 the 2004 5 version of which will be employees.
However, this published later in the year and also improvement, while creditable, did not posted on the Groups website.
The green waste 4 Charleroi site to ensure materials recycling that sensitive habitats facility at Jenkins Lane, were maintained.
Glass containers at a local waste recycling centre.
