Financial Associated British Foods plc review Financial review The significant increase in operating profit mainly reflected the acquisition of the international yeast and bakery ingredients business and the US herbs & spices business and an outstanding performance from Primark.
Group performance profit on the sale of fixed assets and Balance sheet Group sales increased by 9% to 5,622m businesses.
Adjusted to exclude these Fixed assets increased by 1,235m to and operating profit, before the amortisation items, profit before tax increased 12% 3,287m due to the additional tangible of goodwill, increased by 18% to 565m.
assets and goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year, the acquisition of the Littlewoods The significant increase in operating profit Taxation stores and, with a much higher investment mainly reflected the acquisition of the The tax charge of 139m included an in Primark, a level of capital expenditure international yeast and bakery ingredients underlying charge of 165m, at an effective significantly higher than depreciation.
business and the US herbs & spices tax rate of 28.0% on the adjusted profit Our interest in joint ventures increased business at the beginning of the year and before tax described above.
The effective by 24m almost all of which relates to the an outstanding performance from Primark.
tax rate has been reduced as a result of cost of acquisition of our interest in Frontier Good progress was made by many of our an increase in the profits subject to a lower Agriculture Limited.
On 4 April 2005 we businesses, particularly international hot tax rate.
The overall tax charge for the year contributed our Allied Grain business to a 24 beverages, British Sugar Overseas and benefited from a 15m 2004 9m credit joint venture with Cargill PLC who contributed agriculture but our overall result was held for tax relief on the amortisation of goodwill their UK grain trading operations.
Both parties back by profit declines at British Sugar in the arising from recent asset acquisitions.
have a 50% interest in the new business.
UK and our bakery business in Australia.
This credit, together with the tax effect The transaction has been accounted for as of the other exceptional items, has been a part disposal of our original investment and The disposal of properties no longer required excluded from the calculation of adjusted the acquisition of 50% of the Banks Cargill by the group resulted in a profit on disposal earnings per share.
The segmental analysis of fixed assets of 20m which compares with includes the sales of Allied Grain up to the 8m last year.
A loss of 6m on the disposal Earnings and dividends date of disposal.
Sales of the joint venture of two agriculture businesses during the Earnings reduced by 9m to 333m and the thereafter are excluded from group turnover.
year was principally due to the charging to weighted average number of shares in issue the profit and loss account of goodwill remained constant at 789 million.
Earnings Net cash funds, being current asset previously written off to reserves on the per ordinary share therefore fell by 3% from investments and cash at bank less short-term original acquisitions.
A more consistent measure borrowings and loans, were 1,034m lower of performance is provided by the adjusted than last year at 224m.
Working capital, Investment income less interest payable earnings per share which excludes the including tax and dividend accruals, reduced from 36m to 15m following the provision for the closure of Littlewoods, increased by 56m.
substantial cash outflow on acquisitions profits on the sale of businesses and fixed during the period, over 660m of which assets and the amortisation of goodwill net of Pension assets, which are the net of the was incurred at the beginning of the year.
Adjusted earnings per share market value of the assets and liabilities, Other financial income, which represents the increased by 14% from 46.6p to 53.0p.
net of tax, of the groups defined benefit return on the groups defined benefit pension pension schemes, fell by 7m but remain scheme assets less the interest on scheme The interim dividend was increased by in surplus at 51m.
14% to 6.0p and a final dividend has been proposed at 12.0p which represents an The groups net assets increased by 229m Profit before tax fell from 494m to 479m overall increase of 10% for the year.
A currency gain of 29m arose reflecting a provision of 47m for the costs Dividends will cost a total of 142m and on the translation into sterling of the groups of closing the Littlewoods business, a 32m 191m will be transferred to reserves.
This largely resulted increase in the goodwill amortisation charge The dividend is covered, on an adjusted from a strengthening of the Australian dollar arising on recent acquisitions, and the net basis, 2.9 times.
against sterling year on year.
Financial Annual Report and Accounts 2005 review Financial reporting standards and accounting policies There have been no changes in accounting policies during the year.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS will be adopted for the year ending 16 September 2006, the impact of which was described in our accounts for 2004.
The principal differences identified were accounting for financial instruments, intangible assets and deferred tax, although the impact on adjusted earnings per share is not expected to be material.
The form and content of our financial statements will also be different under IFRS.
Our 2005 results, net assets and cash flows, restated in accordance with IFRS, will be published in December 2005.
John Bason Finance Director Although operating profit increased in a net cash outflow on acquisitions and Significant cross-border transactions are substantially, the high level of investment disposals of 1,140m.
covered by forward purchases and sales of made this year in acquisitions and capital foreign currency, or foreign currency options expenditure has resulted in a small decline Treasury policy and controls as appropriate.
The majority of the groups in return on capital employed for the group The groups cash and current asset commodity exposures are managed through from 24.4% to 24.0%.
Return on capital investments totalled 1,198m at the forward purchase contracts with only very employed is defined as operating profit year end including 660m placed with limited use being made of options.
All before the amortisation of goodwill expressed professional investment managers who derivative transactions are tightly controlled as a percentage of average capital employed have full discretion to act within closely within set limits and speculative trading is for the year.
Cash flow The investment objective is to preserve The group does not hedge the translation Net cash flow from operating activities the underlying assets, whilst achieving a effect of exchange rate movements on 25 was 647m compared to 631m last year.
The investment guidelines the profit and loss account.
The group The increase in operating profit before are kept under constant review with the regards its interest in its overseas subsidiary goodwill amortisation and depreciation objective of monitoring and controlling risk undertakings as long-term investments contributed 110m of additional cash levels.
The guidelines require that investments and does not hedge the translation effect generation, which was partly offset by must carry a minimum credit rating of AAA1 of exchange rate movements on them.
an adverse working capital movement, for long and short-term paper respectively, and year on year, of 69m and an increased also set down conditions relating to sovereign Post balance sheet event level of pension contributions.
risk, length of maturity, exchange rate exposure On 1 November 2005 the main warehouse and type of investment instrument.
Aggregate which supplies Primark in the UK was Capital expenditure during the year was limits for each category of investment and risk destroyed by fire.
The group is fully insured 403m of which 221m was spent on the exposure are set for each manager.
for the consequent stock loss and business acquisition of new stores and the refitting of interruption.
The warehouse was owned by existing Primark stores.
The balance was used The groups UK cash balances are a third party.
principally to upgrade, modernise and expand managed by a central treasury department existing manufacturing facilities including operating under strictly controlled guidelines, investment in new factories in Australia and which also arranges term bank finance for China.
In addition to the expenditure on acquisitions and to meet short-term working John Bason new Primark stores included within capital capital requirements particularly for the sugar Finance Director expenditure, a further 407m is included in beet and wheat harvests.
acquisitions in respect of the purchase of the Littlewoods business.
657m was spent A number of the groups businesses are on the AB Mauri acquisition and a further exposed to changes in exchange rates on sales 66m was spent on the acquisitions of and purchases made in foreign currencies and smaller businesses to complement our to changes in commodity prices.
British Sugar grocery and ingredients operations together is exposed to movements in the euro exchange with the buyout of a number of minority rate on the price of sugar in the UK and interests in our Polish sugar businesses.
Poland, Primark sources garments from 18m was contributed for the shares in the overseas primarily in US dollars and many Frontier joint venture and 8m was realised businesses purchase raw materials in foreign on the disposal of small businesses resulting currencies, largely US dollar denominated.
