27 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Smith & Nephews operations are organised into three business units that operate globally: orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management.
Smith & Nephew believes that its businesses have the opportunities for strong growth due to its markets benefiting from an ageing population, an increase in active lifestyles and trends toward less invasive medical procedures.
This is calculated by excluding the effects of foreign currency translation movements and acquisitions see Note 3 c of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Management believes that revenue growth on an underlying basis provides a consistent year-on-year measurement of performance without the distortions created by the translational effect of foreign currency movements and acquisitions which are separate from the Groups normal operations.
Underlying revenue growthis used by management inits , budgeting and planning.
28 Reported growthinrevenue by business segment reconcilesto  as follows: Foreign currency Reported translation Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Orthopaedics................................ 19 2 1 16 Endoscopy.................................. 10 2 8 Advanced WoundManagement................. 5 1 4 Total revenue................................ 13 2 11 Reported growthinrevenue by business segment reconcilesto  as follows: Foreign currency Reported translation Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Orthopaedics................................ 12 9 4 17 Endoscopy.................................. 2 7 9 Advanced WoundManagement................. 5 5 1 1 Total revenue................................ 6 7 1 2 11 2 Reported growthinrevenue by geographicmarket reconcilesto  as follows: Foreign currency Reported translation Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Europe ContinentalEurope and United Kingdom... 8 1 1 6 United States................................ 14 2 12 Africa, Asia and Australia and other America....... 18 3 15 Total revenue................................ 13 2 11 Reported growthinrevenue by geographicmarket reconcilesto  as follows: Foreign currency Reported translation Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Europe ContinentalEurope and United Kingdom... 11 1 4 8 United States................................ 2 12 14 Africa, Asia and Australia and other America....... 8 4 2 10 1 1 Total revenue................................ 6 7 1 2 11 2 Factors Affecting Smith & NephewsResults of Operations Sales Trends Smith & Nephews business units participate in the global medical devices market and share a common focus on the repair of human tissue.
Smith & Nephews principal geographic markets are in the well-developed healthcare economiesof the US, Europe, Japan and Australia.
These markets are characterised by an increase in the average age of the population caused by the immediate post-World War II baby boomer generation approaching retirement, increased longevity, more active lifestyles, obesity and increased affluence.
Together these factors have created significant demand for more effective 29 healthcare products which deliver improved outcomes through technology advances.
Furthermore pressure to resist increases in overall healthcare spending has led healthcare providers to demand products which minimise the length of hospital stays and the use of surgeonand nursingresources.
A recent trend has been increasing consumer awareness of available healthcare treatments through the Internet and direct-to-customer advertising.
This has led to increased consumer influence over product purchasing decisions.
In orthopaedics, improvements in technology have lengthened the effective life of reconstruction implants and have facilitated the implantation of knees and hips in relatively young patients thereby improving the quality of life for a new generation.
The decision to create separate sales forces for reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapy products was a strategic move intended to generate greater customer focus.
Management believes that the creation of separate global business units in 2006 for orthopaedic reconstruction and orthopaedic trauma, , willincrease focus and result inincreased revenue growthfor both businesses.
The endoscopy business is benefiting from the continued trend worldwide towards less invasive surgery but with particular focus on arthrosopic repair of the knee and shoulder using a broad range of technology.
The Group also expects to benefit from the demand for less invasive approaches to spinal disc repair and arthroscopic hip repair.
The advanced wound management business is focused on the treatment of chronic wounds of the older population and other hard-to-heal wounds such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is therefore also expected to benefit from demographic trends.
The market for advanced wound treatments is relatively unpenetrated and it is estimated that the potential market is significantly larger than the current market.
This increased penetration is expected to be driven by improved outcomes from new technology, health economic benefits, increasing nursing shortages, quality of life expectations and education of healthcare providers to convertfrom traditional to advanced treatments.
In order to take advantage of the expanding markets the Group must continually develop its existing and new technologies and bring new products to its customers.
Expenditure on research and development in 2005 represented 5% of Group turnover and products launched within the last three years represented 17% of Group turnover.
Sales Force The Groups sales force, which includes independent commissioned sales agents, increased by 10% to 3,140 during 2005.
The biggest increase was 21% in orthopaedics where the most significant increase was in the US.
The size of the endoscopy sales force increased by 4% whereas the advanced wound management sales force was broadly unchanged.
Currency Movements Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from revenue in a currency different from the related costs and expenses.
The Group attempts to manage the impact of exchange rate movements on cost of goods sold by a policy of purchasing forward all its foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders are placed.
In addition, businesses are required to purchase forward a minimum of 50% of their forecast foreign currency requirements on a twelve-month rolling basis.
The Groups revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
This exposure is offset partly because the Group incurs interest in currencies other than Sterling on its indebtedness denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
See Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources.
The change of reporting currency to US Dollars with effect from the beginning of 2006 will reduce significantly the Groups exposure to exchange rate movements onthe translation of results.
Other Other than national governments seeking to control or reduce healthcare expenditure management is not aware of any governmental, economic, fiscal, monetary or political policies or factors that have materially affected, directly orindirectly, the Groups operations orinvestments by shareholders.
30 Critical Accounting Policies The Groups significant accountingpolicies are set out in Note 2 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Of those the  most use of managements judgment are as follows: Inventories A feature of the orthopaedic business whose finished goods inventory makes up 67% of the Group total finished goods stock is the high level of product inventory required, inventory of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These outer sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic stock to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of stock compared with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiencyof .
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible and tangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes inexpectations arise impairmentcharges may be required whichwouldadversely impact operating results.
Retirement Benefits The Group accounts for its defined benefit pension plans and retirement healthcare plans under IAS19.
In order to preserve consistency with previous disclosures the option under IAS19 was chosen which is most similar to the UK accounting standard, FRS17.
Under this treatment the balance sheet reflects the full value of the total plan deficits without the use of the corridor approach by which valuation movements may be recognised over time.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity through the statement of recognised income and expense.
A number of key assumptions have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pensionplans whichimpact the balance sheet liabilityand financecosts.
Themost sensitive assumptions are: A 1% increase in the discount rate applied to projected plan liabilities would reduce the combined deficit by 80m whilst a decrease of 1% wouldincrease the deficit by 105m.
The effect of increasing the life expectancy assumption in 2005 of a male member of the UK plan aged 60 from 23.3 years to 24.6 years was to increase the deficit by 10 million.
The effect of raising the life expectancy assumption in 2006 of a male member of the US plan aged 60 from 20.7 years to 21.8 years willbe to increase the deficit by 3 million.
A movement of 1% in the assumed returnonequities wouldhave changedother financecosts by 3m while a movement of 1% in the notional interest cost assumption would have changed other finance costs by 4m.
See Note 34 of the Notes to the Group Accounts for a summary of how the assumptions selected inthe last three years have compared withactual results.
The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
The Group selects its discount rate by benchmarking against published indices and by consultation with its actuaries.
The principal index used for benchmarking is the iBOXX Corporate AA index for bonds with terms consistent withthe estimated defined benefit payments.
Contingenciesand Provisions The recognition of provisions for loss contingencies is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is deemed probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates management takes into account the advice of 31 internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcomeof courtproceedingsand settlement negotiationsorif investigations bringto light new facts.
A provision of 80m $154m was recorded in 2004 to cover the estimated cost of settling claims by patients in respect of macrotextured knee revision surgeries assuming that insurance cover continues to be declined.
After adjusting for costs charged against the provision and for the affect of translation exchange rate movements a provision of 44m remains to cover pending and future claims.
The key variables in assessing the adequacy of the provision are the number of revisions likely to arise in the next four years and the average cost of settling patient claims for those revisions.
Whilst managements estimate of the most probable total cost is $154m, which is the amount provided, it is possible that the eventual outcome may be different.
Based on independent statistical projectionsof revisionsthroughto the end of 2009 the range of possible costs is $133m to $194m.
The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world, and it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authority on or before the time limits specified by local tax legislation.
However, the relevant tax authorities are entitled to make enquiries into or audit the information set out in those returns until that year has been formally closed by agreement oris subject to a statutory limitation.
At any given time, tax audits are being carried out in a number of territories covering multiple years and tax returns are subject to possible enquiry in most locations in which the Group operates.
The Groups policy is to provide in current liabilities for additional taxes that may become payable in future years as a result of the settlement of tax audits or other tax enquiry procedures.
This provision represents the Groups best estimate of the tax liability that may arise on resolution of these disputes but the ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided dependent upon negotiations with the tax authority, changes in tax legislation, interpretation of tax law, and decisionsinthe relevant judicialsystem.
2005YEAR The following discussion and analysis is based upon, and should be read in conjunction with, the Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Groups Accounts are prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, which differ in certain respects from US GAAP.
All data has been adjusted to comply with IFRS.
Reconciliations reflecting the effect of the significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP are set forth inNote 39 of Notes to the Group Accounts.
Accounting PoliciesAdopted in 2005 See Note 51 of Notes to the Group Accountsfor  in2005.
Financial Highlightsof 2005 Group revenue was 1,407m for the year ended 31 December 2005, representing 13% growth compared to 2004.
Profit before taxation was 240m, compared with 167m in 2004.
Adjusted attributable profit calculated as set out inSelected FinancialData, improved 14% to 223m.
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share were 19.9p, a 34% increase compared to 14.8p for 2004.
Adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary Share including discontinued operations as set out in Selected Financial Data were 23.8p compared to 20.8p for 2004, representing a 14% increase.
Revenue For the year ended 31 December 2005 Group revenue increased by 158m 13% to 1,407m from 1,249m.
Underlying revenue growth was 11% and favourable currency translation, particularly the stronger US Dollar relative to Sterling added 2%.
Orthopaedics revenues increased by 109m or 19% of which 16% was underlying growth, 2% was due to favourable currency translation and 1% arose from the full year effect of the revenues of MMT, compared with nine months in the previous year.
Endoscopy revenues increased by 29m or 10%, of which 8% was underlying growth and 2% was due to favourable currency translation.
Advanced wound management revenues increased by 20m or5%, of which4% was underlyinggrowthand 1% was due to favourable currencytranslation.
A more detailed analysis is included within the Revenue sections of the individual business segments that follow onpages 35 to 37.
Cost of goods sold Cost of goods sold at 361m, represented 25.7% of revenue compared to 335m 26.8% in 2004.
The main factor in this improvement was the 0.7% effect of business mix caused by the higher rate of revenue growth of orthopaedics which has the lowest cost of goods sold, compared with the lower growth rates of endoscopy and advanced wound management.
Orthopaedics increased its share of Group revenue from 47% to 50%.
A secondary factor was a 0.2% benefit from transactional currency.
This was achieved despite the US Dollar appreciating against the Euro and Sterling through the groups policy of covering forward its foreign exchange purchases ona rollingtwelve monthbasis.
Further margin analysis is included within the Trading Profit sections of the individual business segments that followonpages 35 to 37.
Marketing, sellingand distribution expenses These costs increased by 66m from 477m to 543m and represented 38.6% of revenue, compared to 38.2% in 2004.
33 Administrative expenses Administrative expenses were 25m higher than in 2004 and represented 11.4% of revenue compared with 10.9% in 2004.
Administrative expense grew in line with revenue growth except that increases in insurance premiums accounted for an additional 5m and the costs of combining and relocating the UK orthopaedic business withMMT was 2m.
Research and Developmentexpenses There was no material change in expenditure on research and development but expenditure as a percentage of revenue fell from 5.3% to 4.8%.
Thiswas caused by a rationalisationof development projects at orthopaedicsand endoscopy.
The Group continues to invest in innovative technologies and products to differentiate itself from competitors.
In 2005, 17% of the Groups revenue was from products introducedinthe last three years.
BSN Medical agency and management fees Agency and management fees of 15m were received in respect of services provided to BSN Medical for sales force resource, physical distribution and logistics and administration in certain countries.
The calculation of the fees is designed to result in a neutral, cost-recovery position for Smith & Nephew and is intended to be for a transitional period only.
Recoveries were broadly unchanged in 2005 as there was no material change in the numberornature of shared service agreements.
Trading profit Trading profit was 290m, an increase of 40m compared to 250m in 2004, resulting from an increase in gross profits of 132m partly offset by an increase of 92m in expenses.
Trading profit margins rose from 20.0% to 20.6%.
Restructuring and rationalisation expenses This comprises two items.
39m related to the Groups decision to close the tissue engineering operations within its advanced wound management business.
Production ceased in December 2005 and final closure is expected to be during the first quarter of 2006.
The components of the closure costs are 14m for the impairment of intangible assets related to patents and other intellectual property, 2m to write down plant and equipment, 3m inventory write down, 5m for redundancy payments, 10m for onerous lease obligations and 5m for other items.
In addition 8m relates to the closure of the Andover, Massachusetts endoscopy manufacturing facility.
The components are 3m related to impairment of freehold land and buildings, 4m for redundancy payments and 1m for other items.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles The increase from 5m to 6m reflects the full year amortisation of MMT intangible assets compared with nine monthsin2004.
Operating profit Operating profit increased by 72m compared with 2004.
The trading profit increase of 40m was augmented by the absence of the macrotextured charge of 80m from 2004 less the 47m charge for restructuring and rationalisationand the 1m increase inamortisationof .
Net interest receivable Interest income decreased by 2m from 17m in 2004 to 15m in 2005.
Interest expense decreased by 3m from 13min2004to10min2005.
Other finance costs Comprises notional interest on the defined benefit pension plan deficit less the expected return on investing pensionplan assets.
Fair value of hedgeof anticipated sale proceedsof joint venture A financial instrument was purchased in December 2005 to hedge the anticipated proceeds of the BSN Medical disposal from Euros intoUS Dollars.
Thiswas fair valued at the end of the year resulting ina gainof 1m.
34 Taxation The taxation charge rose by 25m to 70m in 2005.
The effective rate of taxation on trading profit less interest and finance costs was 29.5% compared with 29.0% in 2004 due to changes in the mix of profits.
The taxation charge was reduced in 2005 by 16m as a consequence of the restructuring and rationalisation expenses and in 2004 by 28m as a consequenceof the macrotextured claim.
Discontinued operations Share of Results of the Joint Venture The Groups share of results of the joint venture rose by 1m from 16m in 2004 to 17m in 2005.
Revenues decreased by 39m from 166m to 127m as a result of the Group ceasing to equity account with effect from 1 October 2005 following the reclassification of the investment to Held for sale.
Operating profits decreased by 4m from 24m to 20m due to the short period.
Interest payable was unchanged from prior year at 1m and the tax charge was 1m lower at 6m, compared with 7m.
In the fourth quarter the group recognised as profit a dividend received of 4m.
The principal factors in the growth in revenue were the growth in the global orthopaedics market excluding the spine sector which was estimated to be 11% in the year and the 21% increase in the size of the global sales force from 1,260 to 1,532.
The sales force was expanded in order to improve market coverage, particularly in the US, through the continuingstrategy of creating specialist sales forces for each of the reconstruction, trauma and clinicaltherapies sectors.
In the US, revenue increased by 73m to 433m 21%, of which 19% was underlying growth and 2% due to favourable foreign currency translation.
The main contributory factor in the underlying growth rate was the increase inthe year of 25% inthe size of the US sales force from 815 to 1,021.
Outside the US, revenue increased by 36m to 265m 16%, of which 2% was due to favourable currency translation movement, 2% was due to the full year effect of the MMT acquisition and 12% was underlying growth.
35 Revenue growth was driven by Japan at 19%, which comprised 20% underlying growth less 1% adverse foreign currency translation mainly, due to an increase of 25% in the sales force following the purchase of the business and assets of Leading Medical.
The increase in sales force size was consistent with the strategy of enhancing market coverage in Japan.
UK revenue grew 23% as it benefited from combining its business with MMT, resulting in increased numbers of sales representatives and greater access to surgeons and new customers.
Australia revenue grew by 22% of which 5% was due to favourable foreign currency translation and 17% was underlying growthlargely due to the purchase, inlate 2004, of the rights to distributionof the BHR product.
In reconstruction, global knee revenue increased by 36m to 250m 17%, of which 2% was underlying growth due to favourable foreign currency translation and 15% was underlying growth.
4% of the underlying growth was due to growth in revenue of OXINIUM and the balance was due to sales force additions.
This is a slower rate of growth than the 21% achieved in 2004 which is believed to reflect a reduction in the number of procedures in the US market and the fact that the Group launched fewer knee products during the year pending a number of new releases in2006.
Global hip revenue increased by 28m to 189m 17%, of which 1% was due to favourable foreign currency translation movements.
The MMT acquisition accounted for 3% of growth and underlying growth was 13% which was due to the increased size of the sales force.
The FDA Advisory Panel recommended conditional approval of the BHR productto the FDA for use inthe US and it is expected that this productwillbe released during2006.
Global trauma revenue increased by 24m to 169m 17%, of which 3% was due to favourable foreign currency translation and 14% was underlying growth, 6% of this growth was due to the launch of the PERI-LOC locking compressionplate system and the balance due to sales force additions.
Clinical therapies revenue increased by 20m to 72m 39%, of which 1% was due to favourable foreign currencytranslation and 38% was  by a 26% increase inthe size of the sales force.
Trading Profit Trading profit rose by 29m 21% from 138m in 2004 to 167m in 2005.
The trading profit margin increased from 23.4% to 23.9% as a result of a small improvement to 0.4% points in gross margin due to favourable transactional currency and lower research and development expenditure of 0.5% points, partly offset by a 0.4% points increase in other expenses caused by ongoing sales force investment, higher costs of insurance 4m and the cost of relocatingand combiningthe UK business withMMT 2m.
Operating Profit Operating profit increased by 108m of which 29m was trading profit, 80m was due to the macrotextured claimin2004 less 1m due to the increase inamortisationof .
Endoscopy Revenue Endoscopy revenue increased by 29m or 10% to 334m, comprising 2% favourable currency translation and 8% underlying growth.
In the US, revenue increased by 13m to 182m 8%, of which 2% was due to favourable  and 6% was underlyinggrowth.
Outside the US, revenue increased by 16m to 152m 12%, of which 2% was due to favourable foreign currency translation and 10% was underlying growth.
Revenue growth was driven by Japan at 23%, of which24% was underlying growth driven by higher revenue from knee repair products due to the increased adoption of ACL reconstruction surgery in that market, less 1% adverse foreign currency translation.
Canada revenue grew by 23%, of which 15% was underlying growth, due to an increase in government healthcare funding in the year and 8% was due to favourable .
Global revenue of repair products grew by 19m to 100m 23%, of which 2% was due to favourable foreign currency translation and 21% was underlying growth driven by the release of a number of new products in the knee and shouldersegments.
Revenue in the global resection products sector grew 3m to 130m 2%, within which blades grew by 4%, benefiting from lower levels of re-use in the US of these disposable devices.
Radio-frequency arthroscopy products declined by 1% because 2005 included only 4 months of revenue of the products affected by the injunction in the patent dispute with ArthroCare Inc. compared with 6 months in 2004 prior to the injunction.
The  effect onresectionproducts was zero.
36 Global visualisation and Digital Operating Room revenue grew 6m to 66m by 10%, of which 3% was due to favourable foreign currency translation and 7% was underlying growth.
This was due to a number of new contracts being gained in Digital Operating Rooms due to the enhanced expertise gained with the acquisition of Reed Medical in2004.
In total, products brought to market within the last 3 years comprised 24% of total revenue mainly in knee and shoulder repair, a new camera in visualisation, a new pump in the access sector and a new hip arthroscopy product.
Trading Profit Trading profit rose by 9m 14% from 61m in 2004 to 70m in 2005.
The trading profit margin increased from 20.0% to 20.9% as a result of a 0.3% improvement in gross margin due to gains on favourable transactional currencyand expense controlof 0.6% points.
Operating Profit Operating profit increased by 1m comprising an increase of 9m in trading profit less 8m of costs related to the closureof the Andover .
Advanced Wound Management Revenue Revenue increased by 20m to 375m or 5% of which 4% was underlying growth and 1% was due to favourable .
In the US, revenue was unchanged at 80m, comprising favourable foreign currency translation of 2% and 2% negative underlying growth.
The main factors were inventory reduction by major distributors as they sought to become more efficient in their supply chains, which reduced revenues by an estimated 5% and lower sales of intermediate products to industrial customers which reduced revenues by 6%.
Outside the US, revenue growth was 20m to 295m 8%, of which 2% was due to favourable foreign currency translation and 6% was underlying growth.
Growth in Japan was 31% of which 32% was underlying growth driven by the acquisition of distribution rights to the CADEX product which increased revenue by 11% and by the increased market acceptance of ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings which added 13% to underlying growth.
UK revenue growth was zerodue to the NHS, the largest customer, operating undersevere budget constraints.
The global sales force continued to develop during the year with an increased focus on clear market segments.
Focus on the key brands of ALLEVYN and ACTICOAT combined with the launch of the ACTICOAT Moisture Control productresulted inunderlyingglobal revenue growthfor these productlines of 13% and 25% respectively.
Trading Profit Trading profit rose by 2m 4% from 51m in 2004 to 53m in 2005 broadly in line with revenue growth.
The trading profit marginbarely changedat just over 14%.
Operating Profit Operating profit decreased by 37m comprising an increase of 2m in trading profit less 39m of restructuring charges related to the exit from tissue .
2004YEAR Financial Highlightsof 2004 Group revenue was 1,249m for the year ended 31 December 2004, representing 6% growth compared to 1 2003.
Profit before taxation was 167m, compared with 189m in 2003.
Adjusted attributable profit, calculated as set out inSelected FinancialData, improved 15% to 195m.
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share including discontinued operations were 14.8p, a 20% decrease compared to 18.5p for 2003.
Adjusted basic earnings per share Ordinary Share as set out in Selected Financial Data were 20.8p compared to 18.2p for 2003, representing a 14% increase.
Revenue For the year ended 31 December 2004, reported Group revenue increased by 70m 6% to 1,249m from 1 1,179m.
Reported revenue benefited by 1 2% from the acquisition of MMT but adverse currency translation, particularly the weakness of the US Dollar relative to Sterling reduced revenue by 7%.
A more detailed analysis is included within the Revenue sections of the individual business segments that follow onpages 40 and 41.
Cost of Goods sold Cost of goods sold represents 26.8% of revenue compared to 29.3% in 2003.
This improvement of 2.5% points mainly arose from manufacturing cost and efficiency savings of 1.4% points and transactional currency benefits of 0.7% points from the relative decline in the value of the US Dollar which reduced the cost of purchasing finished goods in many countries, particularly in Europe and Australia.
There was also a mix benefit of 0.4% points as the fastest growingbusiness, orthopaedics, also has the lowest cost of sales.
Further margin analysis is included within the Trading Profit section of the individual business segments that followonpages 40 and 41.
Marketing, sellingand distribution expenses These costs represented 38.2% of revenue, compared to 37.3% in 2003.
This increase is due mainly to additions to sales forces,  US.
Administrative Expenses Administrative expenses were 8% higher than in 2003 and represented 10.9% of revenue compared with 10.7% of revenue in2003.
Administrative expenses items broadly grew inlinewithrevenue.
38 Research and Developmentexpenses There was no material change in expenditure onresearch and development.
Smith & Nephew continuesto invest in innovative technologies and products to differentiate the Group from its competitors.
In 2004, 20% of Smith & Nephews sales were from products introducedinthe last three years.
BSN Medical Agency and Management Fees Agency and management fees were received in respect of services provided to BSN Medical for sales force resource, physical distribution and logistics and administration in certain countries.
The calculation of the fees is designed to result in a neutral, cost-recovery position for Smith & Nephew and is for a transitional period only.
In 2004 recoveries fell by 4m 21% as a number of shared service agreements expired and BSN established its ownindependent operations.
Trading Profit Trading profit was 250m, an increase of 30m compared to 220m in 2003, resulting from an increase in gross profits of 80m less higherexpenses of 50m.
Macrotextured Claim The macrotextured claim of 80m represents provision of 13m for the amount due from excess layer insurers who have declined insurance coverage for claims relating to macrotextured knee revisions together with an estimate of 67m for the cost of settlements withpatients likelyto arise inthe future and assuming that insurance coverremains unavailable.
Amortisation of Acquisition Intangibles The amortisation charge on acquisition intangibles arose principally from the acquisition of MMT in March 2004, whichwas the first material acquisitionto be accountedfor underIFRS.
Operating Profit Operating profit decreased by 33m compared with 2003.
The increase in trading profit of 30m was more than offset by the 80m charge for the macrotextured claim and 5m for the amortisation of acquisition intangibles less 22m for the absence of acquisitionrelated expenses for the previous year.
Net Interest Receivable Payable Interest income increased by 6m from 11m in 2003 to 17m in 2004.
Interest expense decreased by 3m from 16m in 2003 to 13m in 2004.
Interest payable on currencyswaps amountingto 15m was set off against interest receivable on swaps.
Overall interest moved favourably by 9m from a net interest payable position of 5m to a net interest receivable position of 4m, due to favourable movements in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Other Finance Costs Other finance costs comprise notional interest costs on the defined benefit pension plan deficits less the expected return oninvesting plan assets.
Thenet chargewas 2m lowerthan 2003 due to  rates.
Taxation The taxation charge decreased by 11m to 45m in 2004.
The taxation charge on adjusted profits was 73m an increase of 13m on the 2003 charge due to higher adjusted profits.
The effective rate of taxation was 29.0% as compared with 28.4% in 2003.
The taxation charge was reduced in 2004 by 28m as a result of the macrotextured item and increased in2003 by 4m as a result of acquisitionrelated expenditure.
Discontinued Operations Share of Results of the Joint Venture The Groups share of operating profit increased by 4m from 20m in 2003 to 24m in 2004.
2003 included 3m of restructuring and acquisition related expenses.
Operating profit margins before this 3m improved from 13.8% in 2003 to 14.3% in 2004 as a result of cost and efficiency savings and from the benefits of integrating the fracture casting and splinting business acquired from DePuy Inc. in March 2004.
Net profit after taxation increased by 3m from 13m in2003 to 16m in2004.
Growth in sales in the US was 10% 22% underlying less 12% adverse currency translation.
Outside the US, growthwas 17% 10% underlyingless 4% adverse currencytranslation and including 11% from the acquisition of MMT.
Sales pricing in reconstruction and trauma increased by approximately 3% in the US.
In reconstruction, knee sales increased by 12% 21% underlying less 9% adverse currency translation.
This comprised 12% in the US 24% underlying less 12% adverse currency translation, and 14% outside the US 16% underlying less 2% adverse currency translation.
Hip sales increased globally by 21% 15% underlying less 10% adverse currency and including 16% from the acquisition of MMT, which included 2% growth in the US 14% underlying after 12% adverse currency translation, and 60% outside the US 17% underlying less 2% adverse currency translation plus 45% from the acquisition of MMT.
This reflects continuing strong market conditions particularly in the US, the expansion of sales forces and the introduction of minimal incision surgery MIS procedures.
Trauma benefited from the substantial investment in creating a dedicated US sales force, achieving a sales increase of 5% in the US, ahead of the market 17% underlying less adverse currency translation of 12%.
Sales growth outside the US was 1% 4% underlying growth less 3% adverse currency translation.
These result in 3% global growth 11% underlying less 8% adverse currency translation.
Clinical Therapy sales, which consist of the SUPARTZ joint fluid therapy and EXOGEN ultrasound bone healing products, also benefited from sales force investment, growing32% 44% underlyingless 12% adverse currencytranslation compared withlast year.
A number of new orthopaedic products are in the pipeline.
Marketing approval in the US for the ceramic on ceramic hip was received in December 2004.
Surgical evaluations for a new locking plate trauma product were started during the year and it is expected to launch this product in the first half of 2006.
US pre-market approval applicationfor the BHR producthas been accepted for considerationby the FDA.
40 Trading Profit Trading profit from the orthopaedics business increased by 19m 16% from 119m in 2003 to 138m in 2004.
The trading profit margin increased from 22.7% to 23.4% as a result of improvements to gross margin from volume related cost and efficiency savings and transactional currency benefits from the weaker US Dollar partly offset by additional investment inselling and marketingexpense whichcost 1.4% points of margin.
Operating Profit Operating profit decreased by 48m with the increase of 19m in trading profit offset by the 80m charge related to the macrotextured claim, 4m of amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and 17m of aborted acquisitioncosts in2003.
Endoscopy Revenue Endoscopy sales in 2004 were 305m, an increase of 5m or 2% compared to 300m for 2003.
The underlying growth of 9%, represents a recovery from a problematic 2003.
Sales in the US declined 3% 9% underlying growth less 12% adverse currency translation, but grew 7% outside the US 10% underlying less 3% adverse currencytranslation.
The new progressive scan camera system and the Groups comprehensive integration capability for digital operating rooms increased visualisation sales by 12% 22% underlying less 10% adverse currency translation.
Repair product sales grew by 9% underlying 16% less 7% adverse currency translation, led by the comprehensive range of shoulder products.
Radio frequency sales were affected by an injunction imposed on US sales in connection with an ongoing patent dispute with a competitor, and declined by 12% negative 2% underlying growth and 10% adverse currency translation.
Blade sales declined 3% 3% underlying growth less 6% adverse currencytranslation followinga stabilisation of the re-use of blades by US hospitals.
Trading Profit Trading profit from the endoscopy business increased by 1m 2% from 60m in 2003 to 61m in 2004.
The trading profit marginremained constant between 2004 and 2003.
Operating Profit Operating profit increased by 5m comprising the increase in trading profit of 1m less amortisation of  of 1m less  of 5m in2003 related to Oratec.
Advanced Wound Management Revenue Advanced wound management sales were 355m for 2004 largely unchanged from 354m in 2003.
This is equivalent to 5% underlying growth less 5% adverse currency translation.
Outside the US, sales grew 5% 8% underlying less 3% adverse currency translation.
However, sales in the US declined 14% negative 4% underlying growth and 10% adverse currency translation, where they were seriously affected by the need to switch to another enzyme debrider product.
Loss of sales of the previous enzyme debrider negatively affected underlyingglobal sales growthby 4%.
Globally, sales forces have refocused on the market opportunities for ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings and ACTICOAT antimicrobial silver dressings.
In the US, a targeted approach to DERMAGRAFT tissue engineered dermal replacement has been implemented.
The benefits of this approach are evident in the sales of ALLEVYN, which grew 11% 15% underlying less 4% adverse currency translation, ACTICOAT, which grew by 38% 47% underlying less 9% adverse currency translation and DERMAGRAFT, which grew by 16% underlying 28% less 12% adverse currencytranslation.
Trading and Operating Profit Both trading and operating profit from the advanced wound management business increased by 10m 24% from 41m in 2003 to 51m in 2004.
The trading profit margin increased from 11.6% to 14.4% principally as a result of higher gross margins due to manufacturing efficiencies at the La Jolla facility and the elimination of adverse variances at the Largofacility together withexpense controlthroughthe business.
41 OUTLOOK AND TREND INFORMATION The discussion below contains statements that express managements expectations about future events or results rather than historical facts.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the Groups actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
Smith & Nephew cannot give assurance that such statements will prove correct.
These risks and uncertainties include factors related to: the medical devices industry in general, product liability claims and related insurance coverage, the geographical markets in which the Group operates, the nature and efficiency of the Groups products, the Groups ability to research, develop, manufacture and distribute its products, the translation of currencies and the values of international securities markets.
For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these , youshouldread Risk Factors of this document.
The markets on which the Group concentrates continue to demonstrate robust growth and are expected to benefit for many years to come from an ageing population, obesity, more active lifestyles and technological developments including less invasive techniques in orthopaedic and endoscopic surgery.
In advanced wound management continuing innovation and the potential for further penetration of moist wound healing and wound bed preparation techniques should continue to stimulate expansion of this market.
Management expects that innovative new product development programmes and sales force investment will enable the Group to grow as well as expand its market share.
As described in Financial Summary Change in Functional and Reporting Currency the Group will report its results in US Dollars instead of pounds Sterling with effect from 2006.
The effect of this change on future trends will be to reduce the Groups exposure to translational exchange rate fluctuations and thereby reduce the volatility of its revenues and profits.
For 2006, management expects orthopaedic trauma to grow revenues in the mid-teens range whilst orthopaedic reconstruction is expected to be slightly below this, reflecting tighter market conditions.
Revenue growth in endoscopy is expected to improve to just into double digits as it benefits from its new product programme.
Advanced wound management expects revenue growth from continuing products in mid-single digits, reducing to low-single digits after taking into account the exit from tissue engineering.
Group revenue growth, combined 1 with margin enhancement of around 1 2% from ongoing cost and efficiency savings and from exiting tissue engineeringis expected to deliver highteens growthintrading profit for 2006.
Earnings for 2006 will be affected by a number of specific factors.
The divestment of BSN Medical will dilute earnings by around 4% since interest on the proceeds will not match earnings from the joint venture.
Additionally, a loss of favourable interest rate differentials between the US and the UK, coupled with the move of functional currency to US Dollars, is expected to dilute earnings by between 3% and 4%.
After taking into account these factors, interest and other finance income is expected to be around $9m for 2006.
The effective tax rate is expected to increase by around 1% per annum for the next three years, and this will further dilute 2006 earnings 1 by 1 2%.
After the effect of these specific factors, EPSA growth of around 7% to 8% is expected for 2006, before movements intranslational currency.
The net proceeds of the divestment of BSN Medical in February 2006 were $560m and the gain on disposal was $315m whichwillbe recognisedin2006.
Management does not anticipate that the dispute with certain insurers over their declination of coverage of macrotextured product liability claims will be resolved during 2006.
Consequently, it is expected that settlements with patients will not be reimbursed by insurers and that this will continue to have an adverse impact on cash flow of approximately $43m 25m during 2006.
See Legal Proceedings and Risk Factors.
Cash expenditure of $26m 15m is estimated on the exit from tissue engineeringand the closure of the  facility at Andover, Massachusetts.
There will be no impact on operating profit since these payments will be charged to provisions.
Translation of foreign currency net debt into Sterling had the effect of decreasing net debt by 28m in the threeyear period ended 31 December 2005.
Closing net borrowings includes 11m of net currency swap liabilities 2004 and 2003 net currencyswap assets of 31m and 43m respectively.
Acquisitions and Disposals In the three-year period ended 31 December 2005, 51m including the issuance of 50m of Loan Notes in 2004 was spent on acquisitions, net of disposal proceeds, funded from net debt.
Acquisitions totalled 103m and comprisedMMT 69m, Acticoat 11m, Collagenase 6m, and other 17m.
In the same three-year period, 52m was received from the disposal of AbilityOne.
Capital Expenditure The Groups ongoingcapital expenditure and workingcapital requirements have been financedthroughcash flow generated by business operations and, where necessary, through short-term committed and uncommitted bank facilities.
In recent years capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets has represented approximately 7% to 8% of continuing group revenue.
Capital expenditure in 2006 is expected to be approximately the same percentage of Group revenue as 2005.
In 2005 capital expenditure of 111m 110m net of disposals of property, plant and equipment was incurred.
The principal areas of investment were the placement of orthopaedics instruments with customers, , plant and equipment and .
At 31 December 2005, 4m of capital expenditure had been contracted but not provided for whichwill be funded from borrowingfacilities.
Operating Cash Flow Management assesses available cash flow in terms of trading cash flow which is defined as cash flows after capital expenditure and before material items whichderive from events ortransactions that fall withinthe ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain trends in cash flows.
Ongoing capital expenditure on fixed assets is regarded as essential to develop and grow the Groups businesses and to drive operating efficiencies.
Management believes that trading cash flow provides useful information to investors because it provides a consistent year on year comparison of operating cash flows.
43 This figure 173m for 2005 is after several adjustments to cash generated from operations, the most comparable IFRS figure.
This measure is used in the Groups management reporting, budgeting and planning because it provides information on those elements of cash flows which local managers are most directly able to influence.
Management also uses as a key indicator the cash conversion ratio i. e. the percentage of trading cash flow compared to trading profit.
Management uses this cash conversion ratio to target cash generation, to monitor and control its use of capital employed and to provide meaningful year-on-year trend information.
Management has set long-term targets for the Group of 70% 75% cash conversionratio.
Thefollowingtable presents a reconciliationof cash generated from operations to trading cash flow.
2005 2004 2003 million Cash generated from operations............................. 204 228 216 Less: capital expenditure includingtrade investments and net of disposal of property, plant and equipment................... 110 101 72 Operating cash flow....................................... 94 127 144 Add: Special pensionfund contributions........................... 49 Restructuring, rationalisation,  divestment costs................................................. 4 2 10 Macrotextured knee  insurers.......... 26 17 Centerpulse transactioncosts............................... 17 Tradingcash flow......................................... 173 146 171 Liquidity The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet foreseeable borrowing requirements.
At 31 December 2005, the Group held 88m in cash and balances at bank and had committed and uncommitted bank facilities of 355m and 257m respectively.
Undrawn bank facilities amounted to 417m, of which 240m were committed.
Of the undrawn committed facilities, 4m expires within one year, and 236m after two but within five years.
Of the drawn facilities, 81m expires within one year and 114m expires within 3-5 years.
In addition Smith & Nephew has 50m of loan notes payable within one year and finance lease commitments of 10m of which 8m extends beyond five years.
Smith & Nephew intends to repay the amounts due within one year by usingavailable cash and drawingdownonthe .
The principal variations in the Groups borrowing requirements normally result from the timing of dividend payments, acquisitions and disposals of businesses, timing of capital expenditure and working capital fluctuations.
In 2005 the settlement of macrotextured patient claims was a factor which will continue in 2006.
49m of special contributions, over and above the previously agreed and planned contributions, were made in 2005 to improve the funding of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes.
In February 2006 the Group received $560m from the sale of the BSN Medical joint venture which will be held in cash or used to repay borrowingfacilities.
Smith & Nephew believes that its capital expenditure needs and its working capital funding for 2006, as well as its other knownorexpected , canbe met from its existing resources and facilities.
Further information regarding borrowings at 31 December 2005 is set out in Note 20 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Group believes that the borrowing facilities do not contain restrictions that are expected to impact  policyfor the foreseeable future.
Pension Funding The movements in the stock market values, falling long term interest rates and increased longevity experience over the last five years have adversely affected the funding levels of Smith & Nephews major defined benefit plans in the UK and US.
Existing provisions and planned future contributions are considered adequate to cover the currentunderfunded position.
Payment Policies It is Company policy to ensure that suppliers are paid within agreed terms.
At the year-end, the Companys trade creditors represented the equivalent of 37 days credit.
44 EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Board of Directors of the Company has established a set of policies to manage funding, currencyand interest rate risks.
Derivative financial instruments are used only to manage the financial risks associated with underlying business activities and their financing.
ForeignExchange Exposure The Group trades in over 90 countries and as a consequence has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposure.
The Groups policy is to protect shareholders funds by matching foreign currency assets, including acquisition goodwill, with foreign currency liabilities wherever practicable.
These liabilities take the form of either borrowings or currency swaps.
It is the Groups policy for operating units not to hold unhedged monetary assets orliabilities other than intheir functionaloperating currencies.
Foreign exchange variations affect trading results in two ways.
Firstly on translation of overseas sales and profits into Sterling and secondly, the currency cost of purchases by Group companies of finished products and raw materials.
The principal flows of currency are purchases of US Dollars and Sterling from Euros, Japanese yen, Australian and Canadian Dollars, as well as cross purchases between the US and the UK.
The Group partly mitigates the translational impact on profits through the interest arising on foreign currency borrowings or swaps.
The impact of currency movements on the cost of purchases is partly mitigated by the use of forward foreignexchange contracts.
The Group managed 330m of foreign currency purchase transactions by using forward foreign exchange contracts, of which the major transaction flow is Euros into US Dollars.
The Groups policy is for firm commitments to be fully covered and forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
If the Euro were to weaken against the US Dollar by 10% on average over the year, the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts wouldincrease by 4m 2004 increase by 5m.
Had the Group not transacted forward foreign exchange purchase contracts and if Sterling were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, Smith & Nephews profit before taxation in 2005 would have increased by 37m on account of transactional and translational movements: if the Euro were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, profit before taxation in 2005 would have reduced by 13m: if the US Dollar were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, profit before taxation in2005 wouldnot have changedmaterially.
The Groups net debt is exposed to movements in exchange rates on foreign currency liabilities.
Based upon the net debt position at 31 December 2005 if Sterling were to weaken against the US Dollar by 10%, the increase in the Groups net debt would be 51m.
If Sterling were to weaken against all currencies excluding the US Dollar by 10%, the Groups net debt would be increased by 10m.
That is, if Sterling were to weaken against all currencies by 10%, the Groups net debt wouldincrease by 61m.
Interest Rate Risk The Group contracts fixed rate currency swaps and uses simple floating to fixed rate interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting borrowing costs and differentials between borrowing and deposit rates within parameters set by the Board.
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had not fixed interest rates forward for 2006 due to uncertainties over the timingof the receipt of the proceeds from the anticipated sale of the BSN Medical joint venture.
Based upon the net debt position at 31 December 2005, an increase in short-term interest rates across all currencies by one percentage point would increase the Groups annual net interest payable by 2m 2004 increase by 1m.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities were principally at floating interest rates and thus their fair values are not directly affected by movements inmarket rates of interest.
Financial Instruments The Groups financial instruments are subject to changes in fair values as a result of changes in market rates of exchange and forward interest rates.
Financial instruments entered into to hedge foreign currency purchase transactions and foreign currency assets are accounted for as hedges.
As a result, changes in fair values of these financialinstruments do not affect the Groups profit before taxation.
45 At 31 December 2005 the Group had transacted a contingent foreign exchange contract to hedge the anticipated proceeds on the sale of its investment in the BSN Medical joint venture.
This contract does not qualify for hedge accounting.
The maturing of the contract is contingent on the receipt of the proceeds of sale.
If the US Dollar were to have weakened against the Euro by 10% profit before taxation would have reduced by 29m.
In the event that the sale did not complete no amounts would have been payable or receivable in respect of the contract.
The Group limits exposure to credit risk on counterparties used for financial instruments through a system of internal credit limits which, with certain minor exceptions due to local market conditions, require counterparties to have a minimum A rating from the major ratings agencies.
The financial exposure of a counterparty is determined as the total of cash and deposits, plus the risk on derivative instruments, assessed as the fair value of the instrument plus a risk element based on the nominal value and the historic volatility of the market value of the instrument.
Smith & Nephew does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material concentrationof credit risk.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS  31 December 2005 were as follows: Payments due by period More Less than 1 than 5 Total year 1-3 years 3-5 years years million Short-term debt obligations......... 81 81 Long-termdebt obligations......... 114 114 LoanNotes...................... 50 50 Financelease obligations........... 10 1 1 8 Operating lease obligations......... 79 20 26 13 20 Purchase obligations.............. 6 6 Capital expenditure............... 4 4 Other.......................... 43 34 7 2 387 196 34 129 28 Other contractual obligations consist of credit balances on currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts and .
The agreed contribution rates to the UK defined benefit pension plan are 12.5% of pensionable earnings plus supplementary payments of 18m over the next three years.
Payments to the US defined benefit pension plan in 2006 are estimated to be 15m.
2m is estimated to be paid to the other funded defined benefit plans.
In 2005 the Group made a special contribution of 49m to the UK and US plans, over and above the previously agreed and planned contributions, inorder to improvethe fundingof these plans.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Management believes that the Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC in item 5E of Form 20-F, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures orcapital resources that is material to investors.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Except for BSN Medical and AbilityOne see Note 36 of Notes to the Group Accounts, no other related party has had material transactions orloans withSmith & Nephew over the last three financialyears.
46 US GAAP Smith & Nephew prepares its accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
Reconciliations of profit for the financial year and equity are set out in Note 39 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Results 2005 2004 2003 Profit for the financialyear.................................. 173m 143m 180m Basic earningsper OrdinaryShare........................... 18.4p 15.2p 19.3p Diluted earningsper OrdinaryShare.......................... 18.4p 15.1p 19.2p US GAAP profit for the financialyear in2005 is 14m lowerthan IFRS withthe maindifferences being: higher amortisation of intangible assets of 9m since IFRS amortisation applies only to acquisitions after transitionin2003: higher pension expense of 10m mainly due to the amortisation of gains and losses through the income statement rather than throughequity: and impairment of intangibleassets by 25m: partly offset by: lower rationalisation and restructuring costs of 17m since certain costs are recognised later in US GAAP: and differences of 13m indeferred tax methodology.
Equity 2005 2004 2003 At 31 December.......................................... 947m 782m 691m US GAAP equity in2005 is 84m higherthan IFRS withthe maindifferences being: higher book value of 64m for goodwill and intangibles mainly due to the set-off directly to reserves of pre-1998 goodwill the treatment of whichis grandfathered for IFRS :  53m due to deferred recognitionof losses underUS GAAP: and lowerprovisionsof 17m related to rationalisationand restructuring:partly offset by: lowercost of investment inBSN Medical of 39m due to different accountingbases onformation:and higherdeferred tax liabilities of 31m.
Prospects Smith & Nephew has published expectations of future results inOutlookand TrendInformation.
New accounting standards in the US which may affect US GAAP results are detailed in Note 38 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
