R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:12 PM Page 20 FINANCIAL REVIEW 24.11.05 The KHA 3-07 Kharir North stepout well tests over 850 BOEPD, thus further extending the limits of the Kharir Basement productive area and making it the fifth consecutive Basement success in the continuing Yemen drilling programme.
FINANCIAL REVIEW Review of 2005 results This is the first Annual Report and Accounts in which SOCO is reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as required by the European Union.
The 2005 Interim Report was also prepared under IFRS.
The financial statements include the Groups revised accounting policies under IFRS and a reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRS for applicable prior year periods in order to provide comparative financial information.
The Group has adopted US dollars as its presentation currency reflecting the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Financial information for Roger Cagle, comparative periods has been translated to US dollars in the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer IFRS reconciliations published on the Companys website and is also reproduced in Note 32 to the financial statements.
Historically high crude oil prices realised by the Group during 2005 increased the average oil sales price per barrel from continuing operations to US$50.28 from US$37.18 in 2004.
Production from Yemen, net to the Groups working interests, increased in 2005 to 5,529 barrels of oil per day BOPD versus 3,958 BOPD in 2004.
This, combined with the higher oil prices, increased revenue from continuing operations by US$22.6 million which, along with an adjustment for lifting imbalances arising in prior periods amounting to US$5.2 million, increased the revenue from continuing operations for 2005 to US$57.2 million compared to US$29.4 million in 2004.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 20 20 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:12 PM Page 21 FINANCIAL REVIEW Cost of sales on continuing operations in 2005 of US$19.6 million in 2005 primarily due to charges associated with million compared to US$11.3 million for 2004, the securing the financing facility referred to below.
difference arising primarily due to the adjustment for lifting rebalancing, which increased operating expenses from The tax charge on continuing operations increased from continuing operations by US$5.2 million, as well as higher US$6.7 million in 2004 to US$13.4 million in the current production and transportation costs.
year consistent with the increase in operating profit.
Operating expenses on a per barrel basis excluding lifting As discussed below, during 2005 the Group disposed of its imbalances and inventory from continuing operations Mongolia interest which has been reclassified as a dropped from approximately US$5.40 in 2004 to discontinued operation in the financial statements.
Revenue approximately US$4.55 per barrel in 2005.
This is primarily from the Mongolia interest arose from test production due to the dilution of per barrel fixed operating costs during an appraisal programme and an amount was resulting from increased production in Yemen.
charged from appraisal costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
A gain on disposal of the Mongolia Depreciation, depletion and decommissioning costs DD&A asset of US$0.2 million has been recognised in the current on continuing operations increased by US$2.2 million period, and the subsequent payment amount has been compared to last year reflecting the increased production recorded as a financial asset at fair value through profit or along with the addition of future development costs and an loss see below and Note 12 to the financial statements.
increase in Basement reserves in Yemen.
On a per barrel Certain finance costs relating to Mongolia are included in basis, DD&A on continuing operations increased discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations in 2004 to approximately US$3.40 per barrel compared to comprise the Groups Tunisia interest which was sold in approximately US$3.20 during the equivalent period December of that year and its Mongolia interest.
Net profit for the year was US$20.5 million, compared to Administrative expenses increased from US$4.0 million in US$29.6 million in 2004, which included a US$15.9 million 2004 to US$5.3 million in the current year.
This is mainly due gain on the disposal of the Tunisia interests.
Net profit from to lower costs in 2004 associated with reversing the continuing operations increased by approximately 150% amortisation of share awards with performance periods from US$8.2 million in 2004 to US$20.3 million in 2005. ending in 2004 that were no longer anticipated to vest and a reduction in anticipated taxation obligations under the Major drilling programmes in both Vietnam and Yemen, share option scheme.
Exploration expenses associated with facility upgrades in Yemen and the addition of Marine XI pre-licence costs fell to US$1.0 million in 2005 compared to caused capital expenditure to increase to US$76.2 million US$1.9 million last year reflecting the Companys success in from US$27.6 million in 2004 despite the absence of acquiring an interest in its new core area in West Africa.
Tunisia from this years capital programme and reduced In 2004 SOCO sold its interest in OILSOC Investment activity in Mongolia pending completion of the sale.
Company Limited netting a gain of US$2.2 million under IFRS.
Accordingly, SOCOs cash and cash equivalents were reduced from the year end 2004 amount of US$71.1 million As a result of the above, the Groups operating profit from to US$51.0 million at 31 December 2005 reflecting the continuing operations increased by 120% to US$31.3 investment in capital projects, offset by strong operating million from US$14.2 million last year.
cash flow and cash proceeds from disposals.
Higher average cash balances as a result of the sale of the Due to the continuing need to finance current and future Groups Tunisia interest in December 2004 and the sale of exploration and appraisal projects, the Board of Directors the Groups Mongolia interest in August 2005 as well as are not recommending the payment of a dividend.
higher oil revenues caused investment revenue to rise from US$0.7 million in the prior year to US$2.0 million in 2005.
The SOCO Employee Benefit Trust the Trust was Other gains and losses increased from a gain of US$0.1 established in 2001 to administer a Long Term Incentive million in 2004 to a gain of US$0.9 million in 2005 mostly Plan.
At the end of 2005, the Trust held 2,273,300 shares, due to the unwinding of the discount relating to the financial unchanged from 2004 and representing 3.13% of the asset see below and foreign exchange gains.
The number of treasury shares held by costs increased from US$0.1 million in 2004 to US$0.5 the Company also remained unchanged at 150,000.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 21 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:12 PM Page 22 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED The Groups reserve statistics found on page 68 of this Authority of Mongolia MRPAM approves as recoverable report are presented on a working interest rather than costs and expenses incurred in respect of the Contract entitlements basis.
The change was made to Areas in the period to 31 December 2004, which subject to accommodate an easier comparison to peer companies, to a final audit by MRPAM, is currently estimated at US$53 aid in an analysis of the Groups position, and to reduce million.
Once the 27.8 million barrels threshold has been volatility of the period comparisons.
With a number of the exceeded, the Buyer will be obliged to pay to the Sellers an Groups assets being under production sharing agreement amount equal to the total aggregate production for that regimes and the uncertainty of the impacts of major month multiplied by the average monthly posted marker development scenarios in Vietnam, this presentation now price for Daqing crude oil multiplied by 20%.
Based upon excludes much of the volatility of entitlements reporting.
the estimates of proven and probable reserves from the Entitlement volumes are still used as the basis for Mongolia interests and the development scenarios as calculating DD&A, and accordingly entitlement volumes for discussed with the Buyer, the Directors believe that the full the Groups producing asset are disclosed as a footnote to estimated amount of US$53 million will be payable to the the reserve statistics on page 68.
The timescale for the production of crude oil in excess of 27.8 million barrels and the price of Daqing marker Corporate events crude oil are factors that cannot be accurately predicted.
Sale of Mongolia assets On 18 August 2005, SOCO announced the completion of The subsequent payment amount is included in non-current the sale of its entire interests in the Tamtsag Basin in assets as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
Mongolia to Daqing Oilfield Limited Company Daqing or The fair value was determined using a valuation technique as the Buyer, a subsidiary of PetroChina, pursuant to a Sale there is no active market against which direct comparisons and Purchase Agreement announced on 1 April earlier that can be made.
Assumptions made in calculating the fair value year.
The transaction was approved by SOCO shareholders include the factors mentioned above, risked as appropriate, at an EGM on 10 May 2005. with the resultant cash flows discounted at a commercial risk free interest rate.
The fair value of the financial asset at the In the transaction, SOCO disposed of its entire shareholding date of completion of the sale was US$31.5 million.
As at 31 in its wholly owned subsidiaries, SOCO Mongolia Ltd and December 2005, the fair value was US$31.9 million after SOCO Tamtsag Mongolia, LLC, which held interests in three accounting for the unwinding of the discount.
In future Production Sharing Contracts over Contract Areas XIX, XXI periods the fair value will be revised based on updated and XXII in the Tamtsag Basin of Mongolia the Contract assessments of the factors discussed above with the Areas.
Daqing acquired the whole of SOCOs Mongolia resultant movement being recorded in the income statement.
interests from SOCO International Operations, LLC and SOCO International Cayman Limited the Sellers.
Working interest production to the Group from its Mongolia interest averaged 233 BOPD in 2005 to the date of disposal Following completion of the sale, the Company received compared to 338 BOPD in 2004.
Revenue attributable to the first tranche of consideration of approximately the Mongolia interest up to the date of completion was US$29.6 million, following the applicable settlement US$1.5 million 2004 US$3.2 million.
As agreed the second tranche of consideration the sale, the Groups share of net assets held by the of US$10 million was paid into an escrow account for Mongolia interest was US$68.8 million 2004 US$65.4 release to the Company in 18 months from completion, million.
Immediately after the completion of the sale the assuming satisfaction of the condition that no material Group recognised cash inflow of US$29.6 million, other undisclosed additional liabilities are discovered in the interim receivables of US$10.0 million, a gain of US$0.2 million period.
A subsequent payment of up to US$53 million will based on the fair value of the financial asset of US$31.5 be tied to future total crude oil production from the million see above and transaction costs of US$2.1 million.
Credit facility The subsequent payment amount is in respect of all crude In August 2005, SOCO agreed a credit facility with the oil produced from the three Contract Areas in aggregate International Finance Corporation IFC, the private sector subsequent to 1 January 2005 in excess of 27.8 million arm of the World Bank.
The US$45 million reserve-based, barrels.
This subsequent payment amount is equivalent to revolving credit facility has a seven year tenor that is an amount which the Mineral Resources and Petroleum available to SOCO in two tranches.
The first tranche of SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 22 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:15 PM Page 23 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED US$25 million is immediately accessible and the second tranche of US$20 million is a standby loan.
As at year end, the Company had not drawn on the facility.
01.12.05 Appointment of broker In Vietnam, the CNV-4X appraisal well on Block 9-2 is temporarily During the year, SOCO undertook a review of certain of its suspended after encountering corporate advisor relationships.
This review led to the hydrocarbons in a significantly appointment of Bridgewell Securities Limited as the higher pressure environment than Companys corporate broker and financial advisor with effect seen previously on other CNV wells in the sandstone sequence in October 2005. overlying the Basement objective.
Risk management Financial SOCOs Board of Directors has designated the Chief Financial Officer as the executive responsible for the Companys risk management function.
The Audit Committee provides oversight while ultimate approval authority remains with the full Board.
Generally, it is the Companys policy to conduct and manage its business in US dollars.
Cash balances in Group The Group does not maintain any fixed price, long term subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars, but smaller marketing contracts.
Production is sold on spot or near amounts may be held in GB pounds or local currencies to term contracts, with prices fixed at the time of a transfer of meet immediate operating or administrative expenses, or to custody or on the basis of a monthly average market price.
comply with local currency regulations.
The Group may take Although oil prices may fluctuate widely, it is the Groups short term hedging positions to protect the value of any cash policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless hedging is required balances it holds in non-US dollar currencies.
to mitigate financial risks associated with debt financing of its assets or to meet its commitments.
SOCO remains free of debt.
However, it has an established credit facility with the IFC and may employ debt financing to Accordingly, no price hedging mechanisms were in place meet future capital requirements or to fund operations.
Over time, during periods when the Group Group will seek to minimise the impact that any financings sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it may may have on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in engage in limited price hedging.
As with the IFC facility, these are expected to be in US dollar denominations.
Many of the Groups projects are in developing countries or countries with emerging free market systems.
Generally, Company cash balances are invested in short term, nonthere is a greater risk of political, economic or social equity instruments, not exceeding six months forward.
instability in these countries compared to nations with more Investments are generally confined to money market or fixed established, developed economies.
term deposits in major financial institutions.
Some of the Groups interests are in regions identified as Operational potentially more susceptible to business interruptions due to the The Board of Directors does not believe that it is practical or consequences of possible subversive activity.
The Group prudent to obtain third-party insurance to cover all adverse assesses such risks before beginning operations in any circumstances it may encounter as a result of its oil and gas particular area and has deemed these risks commercially activities.
However, the Board of Directors believes that acceptable.
SOCOs comprehensive property, casualty, liability and other policy cover conforms to industry best practice.
As such, it SOCO does not currently carry political risk or associated provides substantial protection against typical industry business interruption coverage to mitigate such risks.
The Board believes it has struck an it periodically assesses the cost and benefit of both and future appropriate balance between exposure and coverage.
circumstances may lead the Group to acquire such cover.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23
